Item 1A. Risk Factors. In the course of conducting our business, we are exposed to a variety of risks that are inherent to the financial services industry. The following discusses some of the key risk factors that could affect our business and operations, as well as other risk factors which are particularly relevant to us during the current period of economic and market disruption. Additional risks and uncertainties could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected, the market price for your investment in the Company’s common stock could decline, and you could lose all or a part of your investment in the Company’s common stock. Continued and Sustained Deterioration in the Housing Sector and Related Markets and Prolonged Elevated Unemployment Levels May Adversely Affect Our Business and Financial Results During 2010, general economic conditions did not improve materially. While we did not invest in sub-prime mortgages and related investments, our lending business is tied, in large part, to the housing market. Declines in home prices, increases in foreclosures and unemployment have adversely impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans, resulting in the write-down of asset values. The continuing housing slump has resulted in reduced demand for the construction of new housing, further declines in home prices, and increased delinquencies on construction, residential and commercial mortgage loans. The ongoing concern about the stability of the financial markets in general has caused many lenders to reduce or cease providing funding to borrowers. These conditions may also cause a further reduction in loan demand, and increases in our non-performing assets, net charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. A worsening of these negative economic conditions could adversely impact our prospects for growth, asset and goodwill valuations and could result in a decrease in our interest income and a material increase in our provision for loan losses. Our Commercial Real Estate, Multi-Family, and Commercial Loans Expose Us to Increased Lending Risks Our strategy continues to be to increase our commercial mortgage loans, commercial loans and, to a lesser extent, construction loans. These loans are generally regarded as having a higher risk of default and loss than single-family residential mortgage loans, because repayment of these loans often depends on the successful operation of a business or of the underlying property. In addition, our construction loans, commercial mortgage loans and commercial loans have significantly larger average loan balances compared to our single-family residential mortgage loans. At December 31, 2010, the average loan size for a construction loan was $2.9 million, 37 Table of Contents for a commercial mortgage loan was $2.1 million, and for a commercial loan was $398,000, compared to an average loan size of $204,000 for a single-family residential mortgage loan. Also, many of our borrowers of these types of loans have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, any adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to one single-family residential mortgage loan. Our Continuing Concentration of Loans in Our Primary Market Area May Increase Our Risk Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in northern and central New Jersey. Unlike some larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers primarily in northern and central New Jersey. The local economic conditions in northern and central New Jersey, including an unemployment rate of 8.2% at December 31, 2010, have a significant impact on our construction loans, commercial mortgage loans, commercial loans, and residential mortgage loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A continuing significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control would impact these local economic conditions and could negatively affect the financial results of our banking operations. Additionally, because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, further declines in real estate values and the continued slump in real estate sales may also have a negative effect on the ability of many of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings and overall financial condition. We target our business development and marketing strategy for loans to serve primarily the banking and financial services needs of small- to medium-sized businesses in northern and central New Jersey. These small- to medium-sized businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions negatively impact these businesses, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our Allowance for Loan Losses May Not be Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan Losses, Our Earnings Could Decrease Our borrowers may not repay their loans according to the terms of the loans, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. We may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease our net income. Our emphasis on the continued diversification of our loan portfolio through the origination of commercial mortgage loans, commercial loans, and construction loans has been one of the more significant factors we have taken into account in evaluating our allowance for loan losses and provision for loan losses. In the event we were to further increase the amount of such types of loans in our portfolio, we may decide to make additional or increased provisions for loans losses, which could adversely affect our earnings. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 38 Table of Contents We Hold Certain Intangible Assets That Could Be Classified As Impaired in the Future. If These Assets Are Considered to Be Either Partially or Fully Impaired in The Future, Our Earnings Could Decline We record all assets and liabilities acquired by the Company in purchase acquisitions, including goodwill and other intangible assets, at fair value. At December 31, 2010, goodwill totaling $346.3 million is not amortized but is subject to impairment tests at least annually, or more often if events or circumstances indicate it may be impaired. Other intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are subject to impairment tests if events or circumstances indicate a potential inability to realize the carrying amount. The initial recording and subsequent impairment testing of goodwill and other intangible assets requires subjective judgments about the estimates of the fair value of assets acquired. The goodwill impairment test is performed in two steps. The first step compares the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is considered not impaired. However, if the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an additional test must be performed. The second step test compares the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. An impairment loss would be recorded to the extent that the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied value. Fair value may be determined using market prices, comparison to similar assets, market multiples, discounted cash flow analysis and other factors. Estimated cash flows may extend far into the future and by their nature are difficult to determine over an extended time frame. Factors that may significantly affect the estimates include specific industry or market sector conditions, changes in revenue growth trends, customer behavior, competitive forces, cost structures and changes in discount rates. It is possible that our future impairment testing could result in an impairment of the value of goodwill or core deposit intangible assets, or both. If we determine impairment exists at a given point in time, our earnings and the book value of the related intangible asset(s) will be reduced by the amount of the impairment. In any event, the results of impairment testing on goodwill and core deposit intangible assets have no impact on our tangible book value or regulatory capital levels. Continued or Further Declines in the Value of Certain Investment Securities Could Require an Other-Then-Temporary Impairment Charge, Which Would Reduce Our Earnings Our securities portfolio includes securities that have declined in value due to negative perceptions about the health of the financial sector in general and the lack of liquidity for securities that are real estate related. These securities include private label mortgage-backed securities. A prolonged decline in the value of these securities could result in an other-than-temporary impairment write-down which would reduce our earnings. Recent Legislative and Regulatory Initiatives May Significantly Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations regarding capital requirements, lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be more active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Actions taken to date, as well as potential actions, may not have the beneficial effects that are intended, particularly with respect to the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. In addition, new laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes may increase our Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance premiums and may also increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operations. New laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes, along with negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. 39 Table of Contents We Operate in a Highly Regulated Environment and May be Adversely Affected by Changes in Laws and Regulations We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance, our chartering authority, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of our deposits. As a bank holding company, Provident Financial Services, Inc. is subject to regulation and oversight by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which a bank and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the requirement for additional capital, the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, could have a material impact on The Provident Bank, Provident Financial Services, Inc., and our operations. Financial Reform Legislation Will, Among Other Things, Create a New Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, Tighten Capital Standards and Result in New Laws and Regulations That Are Expected to Increase Our Costs of Operations. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) will significantly change the current bank regulatory structure and affect the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impacts of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for some time. The Dodd-Frank Act creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks such as our bank with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance with consumer laws by their primary bank regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act requires minimum leverage (Tier 1) and risk based capital requirements for bank and savings and loan holding companies that are no less than those applicable to banks. Effective July 2011, The Dodd-Frank Act eliminates the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, the significant change to existing law could have an adverse impact on our interest expense. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation deposit insurance assessments. Assessments will now be based on the average consolidated assets less tangible capital of a financial institution, rather than deposits. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increases the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks and savings institutions to $250,000 per depositor, and provides unlimited deposit insurance through January 1, 2013 for non-interest bearing demand transaction activities at all insured depository institutions. Non-interest bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2012. Changes in Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition Our results of operations and financial condition are significantly affected by changes in interest rates. Our results of operations are affected substantially by our net interest income, which is the difference between the 40 Table of Contents interest income earned on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in interest rates could have an adverse affect on net interest income to the extent our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature at different times or at different relative interest rates. An increase in interest rates generally would result in a decrease in our average interest rate spread and net interest income, which would have a negative effect on our profitability. In the event of a 300 basis point increase in interest rates, whereby rates ramp up evenly over a twelve-month period, and assuming management took no actions to mitigate the effect of such change, we are projecting that our net interest income would decrease 6.1% or $13.3 million. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest-earning assets, and in particular our securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2010, our available for sale securities portfolio totaled $1.38 billion. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates therefore could have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. We are also subject to prepayment and reinvestment risk related to interest rate movements. Changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage related securities. Increases in interest rates can result in reduced prepayments of loans and mortgage related securities, as borrowers retain existing loans to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that such prepayments are not available to reinvest at prevailing market rates at a profitable spread in excess of our funding costs. Strong Competition Within Our Market Area May Limit Our Growth and Profitability Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. In particular, over the past decade, New Jersey has experienced the effects of substantial banking consolidation, and large out-of-state competitors have grown significantly. There are also a number of strong locally-based competitors in our market. Many of these competitors (whether regional or national institutions) have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do, and may offer certain services or credit criteria that we do not or cannot provide. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area. Lack of Consumer Confidence in Financial Institutions May Decrease Our Level of Deposits Our level of deposits may be affected by lack of consumer confidence in financial institutions, which has caused fewer depositors to be willing to maintain deposits that are not insured by the FDIC. That may cause depositors to withdraw deposits and place them in other institutions or to invest uninsured funds in investments perceived as being more secure, such as securities issued by the United States Treasury. These consumer preferences may cause us to be forced to pay higher interest rates to retain deposits and may constrain liquidity as we seek to meet funding needs caused by reduced deposit levels. Our Information Systems May Experience an Interruption or Security Breach We rely on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or compromise in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our business operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security compromise of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security compromise will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security compromise of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. 41 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved comments from the staff of the SEC to report. 