ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We will need to secure additional financing in the future; and if we are unable to secure adequate funds on terms acceptable to us, or at all, we will be unable to complete construction of our Polysilicon Plant and build our polysilicon business. As of March 31, 2010, we had cash and cash equivalents on hand of $7.0 and current liabilities of $34.0 million. Cash used in operations was approximately $6.0 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010. We will need additional financing to complete the construction of the Polysilicon Plant, and should there be delays in securing additional financing, we will need to implement cost and expense reduction programs and other programs to generate cash that are not currently planned, but are responsive to our liquidity requirements. Reduction of expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to secure additional financing or structure credit terms with our vendors that are favorable to us, based on the current level of capital available to us, including the recently secured $28.3 million credit agreement with China Construction Bank, we would also need to curtail construction of the Polysilicon Plant at the end of July 2010. If we elect to curtail construction, we would not be able to produce our own polysilicon to meet the delivery requirements under certain or our polysilicon supply agreements. We are required to make polysilicon deliveries beginning in September 2010 and in order to keep from breaching these contracts we would purchase polysilicon from third parties for delivery under our polysilicon supply agreements. The amount and timing of our future capital needs depend on many factors, including the timing of our polysilicon plant development efforts, and the amount and timing of any revenues we are able to generate. Given our current business strategy, however, we will need to secure additional financing in order to complete construction of our Polysilicon Plant. 16 Over the next twelve months, we believe that we have sufficient cash to meet all of our obligations as they come due. We have already modified payment terms in purchase orders with some of our vendors, and are in negotiations with other vendors, to structure payment plans for amounts past due and to be invoiced in the future. In the event we are unable to meet our obligations under payment plans and other agreements, we will have to ask our vendors to forebear from enforcing one or more of their rights under their respective agreements. There are no assurances that any of our vendors will agree to forebear or otherwise make any concessions under their respective agreements. If any of our vendors seek to enforce our obligations under these agreements that we are unable to perform, which could include asserting and/or foreclosing on materialman’s and laborer’s liens on the Pocatello facility, or taking other legal action, it could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and we may be forced to delay, alter or abandon our planned polysilicon business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We need $55-65 million, which does not include any working capital needs, to construct and equip the Polysilicon Plant, and we may be unable to raise this amount of capital on favorable terms or at all. Our planned entry into the polysilicon market will require us to spend significant sums to complete the construction of the Polysilicon Plant, to purchase capital equipment, to fund new sales and marketing efforts, to pay for additional operating costs and to significantly increase our headcount. As a result, we expect our costs to increase significantly, which will result in further losses before we can begin to generate significant operating revenue from our Hoku Materials division. Based on our polysilicon supply agreements with our customers, we plan to equip and construct the Polysilicon Plant, with a production capacity of 4,000 metric tons of polysilicon per year. Our estimated construction cost for a facility capable of producing 4,000 metric tons of polysilicon per year is $390.0 to $410.0 million. This estimate is based on our discussion with vendors, declining costs of materials and labor and ongoing adjustments of certain design elements; however, changes in costs, modifications in construction timelines, delays in our construction schedule and other factors could significantly increase the actual costs. In May 2010, we borrowed $20.0 million from the New York branch of China Merchants Bank and in June 2010, we entered into a loan agreement for an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $28.3 million with the New York Branch of China Construction Bank, which must be borrowed within 90 days of our satisfying certain customary closing conditions. As of July 2010, we are also expecting an additional $14.8 million in customer prepayments from our existing customers and expect to draw $28.3 million from the credit agreement with China Construction Bank. Assuming the estimated cost to complete the Polysilicon Plant is $390.0 million, we will need $55-65 million to complete construction, which does not include any financing for our working capital needs. We plan on raising this money through one or more subsequent debt and/or equity offerings and possibly prepayments from new customer contracts. Tianwei has also agreed to use its reasonable best efforts to assist us in obtaining additional financing that may be required by us to construct and operate the Polysilicon Plant. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain equity or debt financing in time to enable us to meet our current construction schedule, on terms acceptable to us, or at all, even with the assistance of Tianwei. In addition, we have experienced delays in the receipt of customer prepayments from certain of our long-term polysilicon supply customers and from time to time we have negotiated reduced prepayments for certain customers. Any delay or failure to raise sufficient additional capital, whether from debt or equity financings or customer prepayments, could delay engineering, construction, and procurement of the Polysilicon Plant in order to deliver polysilicon within the time periods specified in our customer supply contracts, which could materially harm our business. Even if we receive additional financing and prepayments on time and in the amounts agreed upon, the actual costs to engineer, construct, and procure the Polysilicon Plant could exceed our estimates, and we may be unable to raise any additional funding required to pay for any such added costs. If we are unable to meet our customer commitments, our business will be materially harmed and we may be forced to delay, alter or abandon our planned business operations. The actual cost to construct and equip our Polysilicon Plant may be significantly higher than our estimated cost. Our current estimate to construct and equip the Polysilicon Plant is $390.0 to $410.0 million. However, changes in construction costs resulting from increased demand, modifications in construction timelines, changes in our design, delays in our construction schedule and other factors could cause our actual cost to significantly exceed our estimate. If the actual cost is significantly higher than we estimate, it could materially and adversely affect our ability to raise capital, to complete the Polysilicon Plant on schedule or at all, and could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and we may be forced to delay, alter or abandon our planned business operations. Any slowdown of construction and procurement at the Polysilicon Plant increases the risk that we will not meet certain construction and delivery milestones in our long-term polysilicon supply contracts. Failure to meet our construction and delivery milestones could cause one of our customers to terminate one or more of our polysilicon supply contracts and exercise their right to seek a refund of any prepayments made as of the date of termination. Any such termination could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We will be required to procure third party polysilicon to meet our contractual delivery requirements beginning in September 2010. If we are unable to secure adequate quantities of solar-grade polysilicon on favorable terms and at the times needed, our business will be materially harmed. 17 Due to the delays in financing and the required curtailment of construction in the event that we do not secure additional financing, we will be required to procure third party polysilicon to meet our contractual delivery requirements. Our first deliveries begin in September 2010. There are no assurances, however, that we will be able to secure solar-grade polysilicon at the time and in the amounts needed on favorable terms. As we will be required to procure third party polysilicon in the open market, our cost to purchase polysilicon could be in excess of our contractual sales prices or could result in minimal or no profit at all. If we are unable to secure polysilicon on favorable terms and at the times needed, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially harmed. We have a limited operating history and, in fiscal 2007, we decided to enter the photovoltaic system installation and polysilicon markets and to redirect efforts and resources that were historically directed toward the fuel cell market. If we are unable to generate significant revenue from our photovoltaic system installations and polysilicon segments, our business will be materially harmed. We were incorporated in March 2001 and have a limited operating history. We have cumulative net losses since our inception through March 31, 2010. In fiscal 2007, we announced a change in our main business and our intention to form a polysilicon business through our subsidiary, Hoku Materials, and a photovoltaic, or PV, system installation business through our subsidiary Hoku Solar. The polysilicon business includes developing production capabilities for, and the eventual production of polysilicon. The PV systems installation business includes the design, engineering, procurement and installation of turnkey PV systems for residential and commercial customers. Prior to our announcement, our business was solely focused on the stationary and automotive fuel cell markets. We do not expect to generate any revenue from Hok u Fuel Cells in the foreseeable future, and during fiscal 2011, we plan to further assess our opportunities to grow this business or whether it may be appropriate to discontinue its operations. We have no prior experience in the polysilicon business. In order to be successful, we are devoting substantial management time and energy and significant capital resources to developing this new business, including the construction of the Polysilicon Plant. We commenced construction in May 2007, and we produced our first product at our production demonstration in April 2010. We expect to begin commercial production of polysilicon beginning in the third quarter of calendar year 2010, with full-scale production in the first half of calendar year 2011; however, there are no assurances that this schedule will not need to be further modified. We may need to purchase polysilicon from third parties in order to meet delivery schedules in order to avoid termination of one or more of our customer supply contracts. In addition, delays in polysilicon shipments could result in the termination of a customer supply contract, which could require us to refund substantial amounts of cash that have been paid to us as prepayments for future product deliveries. We have encountered, and expect that we will continue to encounter, significant challenges relating to our entering into the polysilicon industry and changes in that industry, including potentially significant increases in polysilicon supply and falling polysilicon prices. If we are unable to address these risks and other risks successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. If any of our project engineering, construction, or key equipment vendors are late in providing their contract deliverables, we may be unable to complete the construction of the Polysilicon Plant to begin commercial shipments in the third quarter of calendar year 2010, or at all, which could materially harm our business. We have contracts with Stone & Webster, Inc. JH Kelly, LLC, GEC Graeber Engineering Consultants GmbH and MSA Apparatus Construction for Chemical Equipment, Ltd., Idaho Power Company, Dynamic Engineering Inc., AEG Power Solutions USA Inc., formerly known as Saft Power Systems USA, Inc., PVA Tepla Danmark, Polymet Alloys, Inc., BHS Acquisitions, LLC, Evonik Degussa Corporation, and our other vendors, contractors and consultants who are providing key services, equipment, and supplies for the engineering, construction and procurement of the Polysilicon Plant. If we experience delays in the performance or delivery of the services, equipment, and goods under these respective agreements, we may be unable to commence production of polysilicon in the second quarter of fiscal 2011, to ramp-up production and commence commer cial shipments in fiscal 2011, or deliver the volume of polysilicon that is required under our polysilicon supply agreements. If we are unable to meet these scheduling goals, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to secure adequate quantities of trichlorosilane on favorable terms and at the times needed, our business will be materially harmed. We have decided to defer approximately $40.0 million in capital expenditures by delaying construction of our on-site trichlorosilane, or TCS, production facility. TCS is needed to produce polysilicon. We have received shipments of small volumes of TCS from two suppliers for our initial polysilicon production, and we have entered into a Sales Agreement with Evonik Degussa Corporation for the supply of TCS through February 2011. We are in discussions with these third-party TCS producers for higher volume TCS supply contracts to enable us to execute on this strategy. There are no assurances, however, that we will be able to secure adequate TCS at the time and in the amounts needed on favorable terms, or at all. If we are unable to secure adequate TCS on favorable terms and at the times needed, we m ay be unable to meet certain milestones in our customer contracts or to meet our customer supply commitments and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially harmed. 18 We may have difficulty managing changes in our operations, which could harm our business. To date we have expended significant financial and management resources in connection with our planned entry into the polysilicon market and the development of our PV system installation business. For example, in May 2007, we commenced construction of the Polysilicon Plant. Construction of the Polysilicon Plant and the operation of the polysilicon manufacturing and PV system installation businesses involves substantial changes to our operations and places a significant strain on our senior management team and financial and other resources, and has, among other things, required us to significantly increase our international activities; hire and train additional financial, accounting, sales and marketing personnel; and to make substantial investment in our engineering, logistics, financial and information systems, incl uding implementing new enterprise-level transaction processing, operational and financial management information systems, procedures and controls. Our executive management team does not have prior experience in polysilicon manufacturing. Any failure by us to manage the expansion of our operations or succeed in these markets or other markets that we may enter in the future, may harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in industrial production capacity for polysilicon could harm our business. Certain polysilicon producers have invested heavily in the expansion of their production capacities in view of the recent scarcity of solar-grade polysilicon. We currently expect significant additional capacity to come on-line in fiscal 2011, near in time to when the Polysilicon Plant is scheduled to become fully operational. In addition, if an excess supply of electronic-grade polysilicon were to develop, producers of electronic-grade silicon could switch production to solar-grade polysilicon, causing the price of solar-grade polysilicon to decline more rapidly than we currently anticipate. The electronic-grade polysilicon market historically has experienced significant cyclicality; for example, that market experienced significant excess supply from 1998 through 2003. Moreover, the forecasted increases in polysilico n supply could also be exacerbated if the demand for polysilicon decreases significantly as a result of the introduction of new technologies that materially reduce or eliminate the need for polysilicon in producing effective PV systems. If any of these events occurred, they could result in an excess supply of solar-grade polysilicon and could suppress market prices for solar-grade polysilicon. Any such suppression of market prices for polysilicon would affect the price which we could expect to receive in selling our polysilicon in the spot market and could provide our customers with incentives to reconsider or renegotiate their long-term supply contracts with us to the extent the polysilicon deliverable under those contracts is priced above prevailing market prices. During fiscal year 2010, spot market prices of polysilicon decreased dramatically with an increase in supply, and further price declines are possible in fiscal 2011 as additional supply is forecasted to enter the market. Further decreases in demand and polysilicon prices could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, in the past, industry-wide shortages of polysilicon have created shortages of PV modules and increased prices for such modules. In the event of a polysilicon shortage, any inability to obtain PV modules at commercially reasonable prices, or at all, would adversely affect our PV system installation business by reducing our ability to meet potential customer demand for our products or to provide products at competitive prices. Any continued industry shortage in available polysilicon could delay the potential growth of our PV system installations business, thereby harming our business. If any of our supply agreements are terminated for any reason, our business will be materially harmed. Pursuant to our amended supply agreements with Suntech, Solarfun, Jinko, Tianwei, Solargiga and Alex, we have received prepayments for future product deliveries of $2.0 million, $49.0 million, $20.0 million, $29.0 million, $13.6 million, and $20.0 million, respectively, for an aggregate amount of $133.6 million as of June 30, 2010. In addition, our customers have promised to make additional prepayments of $14.8 million. Our amended supply agreements contain production and delivery milestones and test demonstration requirements that, if not met, allow the counterparty to terminate the applicable amended supply agreement and require us to refund any prepayments received under that amended supply agreement. To the extent any amended supply agreement is terminated, we will not receive any further prepayments from the counterparty. In addition, our prior failures to meet performance requirements and other obligations under our supply agreements have required us to renegotiate our supply agreements, which have resulted in new terms and conditions that increase our obligations or decrease the economic benefit of the supply agreement to us. If any of the amended supply agreements are terminated for any reason, our business will be materially harmed. In some circumstances we will be required to refund prepayments received under any terminated amended supply agreement and will not receive promised additional prepayments, and consequently we will need to secure new funds to cover the refund obligation and to provide adequate financing for the completion of the construction of our Polysilicon Plant. Securing new funds may delay the anticipated timing of completion of the Polysilicon Plant, which delay may result in us failing to meet our delivery requirements under our other supply agreements. We may not be able to secure new funds on terms as favorable to us as those under the amended supply agreements, or at all. If we are unable to secure new funds, we will not be able to complete construction of the Polysilicon Plant, our business will be materially harmed and we may be forced to delay, alter or abandon our planned business operations. We rely on limited suppliers and, if these suppliers fail to deliver materials that meet our quality requirements in a timely, cost-effective manner or at all, our production of polysilicon and our installation of PV systems would be limited. It is highly likely that we will procure materials for our PV system installation business from vertically integrated solar module manufacturing and installation companies that are also our competitors. These companies may choose in the future not to sell these materials to us at all, or may raise their prices to a level that would prevent us from selling our goods and services on a profitable basis. 19 In our polysilicon business we rely heavily on our contracted suppliers of key process technologies and infrastructure including such components as the reactors and the TCS process. If any of these suppliers fail to perform their contractual obligations, we will be required to seek alternative suppliers and likely will not be able to commence production of polysilicon at the Polysilicon Plant on our current schedule. Any such production delays may result in a breach of one or more of our supply agreements with Alex, Suntech, Solarfun, Jinko, Tianwei and/or Solargiga and such breaches may allow these customers to terminate the supply agreements and seek a return of prepayments, which would harm our business and may make the completion of the Polysilicon Plant impossible. Even if we achieve our polysilicon and PV system installation objectives on a timely basis and complete the construction of the Polysilicon Plant, we may still be unsuccessful in developing, producing and/or selling these products and services, which would harm our business. If we are successful in our efforts to construct the Polysilicon Plant, our ability to successfully compete in the polysilicon and PV system installation markets will depend on a number of factors, including: · our ability to produce or procure TCS and polysilicon, and install PV systems at costs that allow us to achieve or maintain profitability in these businesses; · our ability to successfully manage a much larger and growing enterprise, with a broader national and international presence; · our ability to attract new customers and expand existing customer relationships; · our ability to develop new technologies to become competitive through cost reductions; · our ability to scale our business and maintain low production costs to be competitive; · our ability to predict and adapt to changing market conditions, including the price of inputs and the spot price for polysilicon sold in the market by us or purchased by us from third parties to settle customer commitments; and · future product liability or warranty claims. If our PV system installation competitors are able to develop and market products that customers prefer to our products, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to continue operations. The market for PV systems installations is competitive and continually evolving. As a relatively new entrant to this market, we expect to face substantial competition from companies such as SunPower Corporation, SunEdison, Chevron Energy Solutions, REC Solar and other new and emerging companies in Hawaii, Asia, North America and Europe. In addition, the Hawaii market is gaining additional attention from potential competitors, owing to the expected introduction of a Feed-in Tariff by the local public utility. Many of our known competitors are established players in the solar industry, and have a stronger market position than ours and have larger resources and name recognition than we have. Furthermore, the PV market in general competes with other sources of renewable energy and conventional power generation. Technological development in the solar power industry could reduce market demand for polysilicon or allow for lower cost production of polysilicon by our competitors, which could cause our sales and profit to decline. The solar power industry is characterized by evolving technologies and standards. Technological evolutions and developments in PV products, including thin-film technologies, higher PV efficiency and thinner wafers may decrease the demand for polysilicon by PV module manufacturers, and some manufacturers are developing alternative solar technologies that require significantly less silicon than crystalline silicon-based solar cells and modules, or no polysilicon at all. If these developing technologies prove more advantageous in application and are widely adopted, we may experience a decrease in demand for our polysilicon and a decrease in our sales or operating margins. Additionally, other technologies for the production of polysilicon are increasing in prevalence in the industry. Technologies which compete with the Siemens reactor process, including fluidized bed reactor process, may enable the manufacture of polysilicon more quickly or at lower cost than does the Siemens reactor process. To the extent that our competitors adopt other technologies that enable them to compete more effectively, our operating margins and price-competitiveness may be impacted. In the event that we are unable to re-design the Polysilicon Plant around these more efficient processes on manageable timetables and at reasonable cost, our business could be adversely affected. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past, and we expect a number of factors to cause our operating results to continue to fluctuate in the future, making it difficult for us to accurately forecast our quarterly and annual operating results. Hoku Materials does not currently generate any operating revenue and we do not expect to generate any revenue from Hoku Fuel Cells in the foreseeable future. All of our revenue presently is generated by Hoku Solar and our PV system installation activities. 20 Our future operating results and cash flows will depend on many factors that will impact our polysilicon business run by Hoku Materials and, our PV system installation business run by Hoku Solar, including the following: · the size and timing of customer orders, milestone achievement, product delivery and customer acceptance, if required; · the length of contract negotiation cycles, · the timing of equipment delivery and procurement, integration and testing, · our success in obtaining prepayments from customers for future shipments of polysilicon; · our success in maintaining and enhancing existing strategic relationships and developing new strategic relationships with potential customers; · our ability to finance power purchase agreements for potential PV system installation customers; · actions taken by our competitors, including new product introductions and pricing changes; · the costs of maintaining our operations; · customer budget cycles and changes in these budget cycles; and · external economic and industry conditions. As a result of these factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investors’ views of us. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place to help ensure that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. In May 2007, we commenced construction of the Polysilicon Plant. Construction of the Polysilicon Plant and the operation of our polysilicon manufacturing business and PV system installation businesses will involve substantial changes to our operations and will require us to increase our international activities, hire and train additional financial and accounting personnel, make substantial investments in our engineering, logistics, financial and information systems, including implementing new enterprise-level transaction processing, operational, financial and a ccounting management information systems, procedures and controls. In connection with the planned increased scale of our polysilicon manufacturing business and PV system installation businesses and our implementation of new operational and financial management information systems to accommodate these businesses, we expect to engage in a process of documenting, reviewing and improving our internal control and procedures in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires an annual assessment by management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We conduct annual testing of our internal controls in connection with the Section 404 requirements and, as part of that documentation and testing, we may identify areas for further attention and improvement. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal controls may entail substantial costs in order to modify our existing accounting systems and take a significant period of time to complete, and may distract our officers, directors and employees from the operation of our business. Further, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the internal controls, disclosure controls and IT infrastructure of the businesses that we may acquire in the future. These changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal controls, and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and could materially impair our ability to operate our business. In addition, investors’ perceptions that our internal controls are inadequate or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements may seriously affect our stock price. We will use materials that are considered hazardous in our planned polysilicon manufacturing and production processes and, therefore, we could be held liable for any losses not covered by insurance that result from the use and handling of such hazardous materials. The production of polysilicon will involve the use of materials that are hazardous to human health and the environment, the storage, handling and disposal of which will be subject to government regulation. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may increase our manufacturing costs and may require us to halt or suspend our operations until we regain compliance. If we have an accident at the Polysilicon Plant involving a spill or release of these substances, we may be subject to civil and/or criminal penalties, including financial penalties and damages, and possibly injunctions preventing us from continuing our operations. Any liability for penalties or damages, and any injunction resulting from damages to the environment or public health and safety, could harm our business. In addition under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner or operator of real estate is liable for costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances on or in such property. These laws often impose such liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such substances. We do not have any insurance for liabilities arising from the use and handling of hazardous materials. 21 Our polysilicon manufacturing business will involve many operating risks that can cause substantial losses. The manufacture of our polysilicon may involve one or more of the following risks: · fires or explosions; · spills or releases; and · pipe, vessel, or system failures. In the event that any of the foregoing events occur, we could incur substantial losses as a result of injury or loss of life; severe damage or destruction of property, natural resources or equipment; pollution and other environmental damage; investigatory and clean-up responsibilities; regulatory investigation and penalties; suspension of operations; or repairs to resume operations. If we experience any of these problems, our ability to conduct operations could be adversely affected. These conditions can cause substantial damage to facilities and interrupt production. If realized, the foregoing risks could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any significant and prolonged disruption of our operations in Hawaii could result in PV system installation delays that would reduce our revenue. Hoku Solar’s business operations are currently located exclusively in the state of Hawaii, which is subject to the potential risk of earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods and other natural disasters. The occurrence of an earthquake, hurricane, tsunami, flood or other natural disaster in Hawaii could result in damage, power outages and other disruptions that would interfere with our ability to conduct our PV system installation business. In October 2006, for example, Hawaii suffered a major earthquake causing significant damage throughout the state. Our facilities and operations, however, did not suffer any damage. Most of the materials we use in our PV system installation business must be delivered via air or sea. Hawaii has a large union presence and has historically experienced labor disputes, including dockworker strikes, which could prevent or delay cargo shipments. Any future dispute that delays shipments via air or sea could prevent us from procuring or installing our turnkey PV systems in time to meet our customers’ requirements, or might require us to seek alternative and more expensive freight forwarders or contract manufacturers, which could increase our expenses. We have significant international activities and customers, particularly in China, that subject us to additional business risks, including increased logistical complexity and regulatory requirements, which could result in a decline in our revenue. Our current polysilicon supply agreements are with Alex, Suntech, Jinko, Solarfun, Tianwei and Solargiga, all of which are located in the People’s Republic of China, or China, and Hong Kong. As a result, we will be engaging in significant international sales of our polysilicon, which can be subject to many inherent risks that are difficult or impossible for us to predict or control, including: · political and economic instability; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and tariffs; · difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations, including foreign distributor relationships; · longer accounts receivable collection cycles in certain foreign countries; · adverse economic or political changes; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · more limited protection for intellectual property in some countries; · potential trade restrictions, exchange controls and import and export licensing requirements; · U.S. and foreign government policy changes affecting the markets for our products; · problems in collecting accounts receivable; and · potentially adverse tax consequences of overlapping tax structures. 22 All of our polysilicon supply contracts are denominated in U.S. dollars. Therefore, increases in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar to foreign currencies will cause our products to become relatively more expensive to customers in those countries, which could lead to a reduction in sales or profitability in some cases. All of our polysilicon customers are located in China and Hong Kong, which involves various political and economic risks. Presently, all of our long-term polysilicon supply contracts are with companies based in China and Hong Kong. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be disproportionately affected by economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: · the higher level of government involvement and regulation; · the early stage of development of the market-oriented sector of the economy; · the rapid growth rate; and · the higher level of control over foreign exchange. China’s government continues to exercise significant control over economic growth in China through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and imposing policies that impact particular industries or companies in different ways. China’s government also sets policy with respect to the use of alternative energy such as solar. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Non-U.S. companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in practices such as bribery, pay-offs or other fraudulent practices in China, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse general economic conditions could harm our business. Adverse overall economic conditions that impact consumer spending could impact our results of operations. Future economic conditions affecting disposable income such as employment levels, consumer confidence, credit availability, business conditions, stock market volatility, weather conditions, acts of terrorism, pandemic, threats of war, and interest and tax rates could reduce consumer spending or cause consumers to shift their spending away from our goods and services. If the economic conditions continue to be adverse or worsen, we may experience material adverse impacts on our business, operating results and financial condition. A drop in the retail price of conventional energy or non-solar renewable energy sources could harm our business. The price of conventional energy can affect the demand for alternative energy solutions such as solar. Fluctuations in economic and market conditions that impact the prices of conventional and non-solar renewable energy sources could cause the demand for solar energy systems to decline, which would have a negative impact on our business. Inexpensive prices for oil and other fossil fuels and utility electric rates could also have a negative effect on our PV system installation and polysilicon production businesses. Conversely, our polysilicon manufacturing process uses significant amounts of electric energy. High energy prices, therefore, could increase our production costs, and increases in the cost of electricity reduce our margins. Although we have entered into a long term contract with Idaho Power to supply electric power to the Polysilicon Plant at a fixed rate, the Idaho Public Utilities Commission can change the rate under certain circumstances. Should this happen, substantial increases in our electricity costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Current credit and financial market conditions could prevent or delay our current or future customers from obtaining financing necessary to purchase our products and services or finance their own operations or capacity expansions, which could adversely affect our business, our operating results and financial condition. Due to the recent severe tightening of credit and concerns regarding the availability of credit around the world, our solar customers may delay or attempt to delay their payments to us in connection with product and service purchases, or may be delayed in obtaining, or may not be able to obtain, necessary financing for their purchases of our products and services or their own operations or expansion plans. In addition, the current credit and financial market conditions may adversely affect the ability of our customers that have executed long-term supply agreements to purchase polysilicon from us to make additional required payments to us pursuant to these long-term supply agreements or to fund their own expansion plans. Delays of this nature could materially harm our polysilicon sales and PV installations, and theref ore harm our business. 23 Risks Associated With Government Regulation and Incentives If we do not obtain on a timely basis the necessary government permits and approvals to construct and operate the Polysilicon Plant, our construction costs could increase and our business could be harmed. We have received the air permit and storm water prevention permit that are necessary to begin construction of the Polysilicon Plant; however, we need to apply for additional permits with federal, state and local authorities, including permits to operate the Polysilicon Plant when construction is complete. The government regulatory process is lengthy and unpredictable and delays could cause additional expense and increase our construction costs. In addition, we could be required to change our construction plans in order receive the required permits and such changes could also result in additional expense and delay. Any delay in completion of construction could result in us failing to meet our delivery deadlines under our supply agreements and give the other parties to these agreements the right to terminate the agreem ents. Our business and industry are subject to government regulation, which may harm our ability to market our products. The market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by foreign, federal, state and local government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as policies promulgated by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation. In the United States and in a number of other countries, these regulations and policies are being modified and may continue to be modified. Customer purchases of, or further investment in the research and development of, alternative energy sources, including solar power technology, could be deterred by these regulations and policies, which could result in a significant reduction in the potential demand for our PV system installations. For example , without a regulatory mandated exception for solar power systems, utility customers are often charged interconnection or standby fees for putting distributed power generation on the electric utility grid. These fees could increase the cost to our customers of installing PV systems and make them less desirable, thereby harming our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, our agreements with The James Campbell Company and Forest City Hawaii to construct PV systems are conditioned upon receiving various government approvals. The installation of PV systems is subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national and local ordinances relating to zoning, building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering and related matters. It is difficult to track the requirements of individual states and counties and to design equipment to comply with the varying standards. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to PV system installations may result in significant additional expenses to us and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our PV system installation services. If government incentives to locate the Polysilicon Plant in the City of Pocatello, Idaho are not realized then the costs of establishing the Polysilicon Plant may be higher than we currently estimate. The State of Idaho and the local municipal government have approved a variety of incentives to attract Hoku Materials, including tax incentives, financial support for infrastructure improvements around the Polysilicon Plant, and grants to fund the training of new employees. In March 2007, we entered into a 99-year ground lease with the City of Pocatello, for approximately 67 acres of land in Pocatello, Idaho and in May 2007, we commenced construction of the Polysilicon Plant. In May 2007, the City of Pocatello approved an ordinance that authorized certain tax incentives related to the infrastructure necessary for the completion and operation of the Polysilicon Plant. In May 2009, we entered into an Economic Development Agreement, or the PDA Agreement, with the Pocatello Development Authority, or the PDA, pursuant to which the PDA agreed to reimburse to us amounts we actually incur in making certain infrastructure improvements consistent with the North Portneuf Urban Renewal Area and Revenue Allocation District Improvement Plan and the Idaho Urban Renewal Law, or the Infrastructure Reimbursement, and an additional amount as reimbursement for and based on the number of full time employee equivalents we create and maintain, or the Employment Reimbursement, at the Polysilicon Plant. 0;The parties agreed that (a) the Infrastructure Reimbursement will be an amount that is equal to 95% of the tax increment payments the PDA actually collects on the North Portneuf Tax Increment Financing District with respect to our real and personal property located in such district, or the TIF Revenue, up to approximately $26.0 million, less the actual Road Costs, and (b) the Employment Reimbursement will be an amount that is equal to 50% of the TIF Revenue, up to approximately $17.0 million. However, there are no assurances that all or any part of the amount authorized will be paid to us, and we could ultimately receive significantly less or nothing at all, and we may not realize the benefits of these other offered incentives including workforce training funds and utility capacities. The tax incentives expire on December 31, 2030. If there are changes to the ordinance, which affects the amount of the incentives, or for other reasons, some of which may be beyond our control, we are unable to realize all or any part of these incentives, the operating costs of the Polysilicon Plant may be higher than we currently estimate. The reduction or elimination of government and economic incentives for PV systems and related products could reduce the market opportunity for our PV installation services. We believe that the near-term growth of the market for on-grid applications, where solar power is used to supplement a customer’s electricity purchased from the utility network, depends in large part on the availability and size of government incentives. Because we plan to sell to the on-grid market, the reduction or elimination of government incentives may adversely affect the growth of this market or result in increased price competition, both of which adversely affect our ability to compete in this market. Currently, the U.S. federal solar tax credit is scheduled to expire at the end of calendar year 2016. If similar tax or other federal government incentives are not available beyond calendar year 2016, it could harm our PV system installation business. 24 Today, the cost of solar power exceeds the cost of power furnished by the electric utility grid in many locations. As a result, federal, state and local government bodies in many countries, most notably Germany, Japan and the United States, have provided incentives in the form of rebates, tax credits and other incentives to end users, distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of solar power products to promote the use of solar energy in on-grid applications and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. These government economic incentives could be reduced or eliminated altogether. For example, Germany has been a strong supporter of solar power products and systems and political changes in Germany could result in significant reductions or eliminations of incentives, including the reduction of tariffs ove r time. Some solar program incentives expire, decline over time, are limited in total funding or require renewal of authority. Net metering policies in Japan could limit the amount of solar power installed there. Reductions in, or elimination or expiration of, governmental incentives could result in decreased demand for PV products, and reduce the size of the market for our planned PV system installation services and the demand for solar-grade polysilicon. Risks Associated With Our Common Stock and Charter Documents Our stock price is volatile and purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. Our stock price is volatile and between April 1, 2009 and March 31, 2010, our stock had low and high sales prices in the range of $1.67 to $4.64 per share. During fiscal 2010, the stock market in general has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, including: · variations in our financial results or those of our competitors and our customers; · announcements by us, our competitors and our customers of acquisitions, new products, the acquisition or loss of significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; · the performance of the stock market generally and the over-all condition of the global macro economy; · failure to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors with respect to our financial results; · our ability to develop and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis; · litigation; · changes in our management; · changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals; · future sales of our common stock by us and future sales of our common stock by our officers, directors and affiliates, including Tianwei; · investors’ perceptions of us; and · general economic, industry and market conditions. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility and a decrease in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Class action litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Tianwei has a controlling interest in us and, as long as Tianwei controls us, other stockholders’ ability to influence matters requiring stockholder approval will be limited. Tianwei owns 33,379,287 shares of our common stock, and holds a warrant to purchase an additional 10 million shares of our common stock, together representing approximately 66% of our total outstanding shares of common stock. Tianwei has the right to nominate four out of seven of our directors until the earlier of (i) Tianwei (together with its affiliates) ceasing to be our largest individual stockholder or (i) Tianwei (together with its affiliates) owning less than 25% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. In addition, as a majority stockholder Tianwei has the ability to control the outcome of all matters that would be determined by a vote of our stockholders, including: 25 · the composition of our board of directors and, through our board of directors, any determination with respect to our business plans and policies, including the appointment and removal of our officers; · any determinations with respect to mergers and other business combinations; · our acquisition or disposition of assets; · our financing activities; · changes to our polysilicon supply agreements with Tianwei; · the allocation of business opportunities that may be suitable for us and Tianwei; · the payment of dividends on our common stock; and · the number of shares available for issuance under our stock plans. Tianwei’s voting control may discourage transactions involving a change of control of us, including transactions in which the holders of our common stock might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then current market price. Until one year from the close of the Tianwei financing transaction, Tianwei will be prohibited from selling or transferring, directly or indirectly, 70% of its shares of common stock. Thereafter, Tianwei will not be prohibited from selling a controlling interest in us to a third party and may do so without stockholder approval and without providing for a purchase of other stockholders’ shares of common stock. Accordingly, our shares of common stock may be worth less than they would be if Tianwei did not maintain voting control over us. Through control of our board of directors, Tianwei may cause our board to act in Tianwei’s best interests which may diverge from the best interests of other stockholders and make it difficult for us to recruit quality independent directors. Pursuant to an Investor Rights Agreement, dated as of December 2009, Tianwei has the right to nominate four out of seven board of directors and may at any time replace four out of seven of our directors. As a result, unless and until the earlier of (i) Tianwei (together with its affiliates) ceasing to be our largest individual stockholder or (ii) Tianwei (together with its affiliates) owning less than 25% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, Tianwei can effectively control and direct our board of directors, which means that to the extent that our interests and the interests of Tianwei diverge, Tianwei can cause us to act in Tianwei’s best interest to the detriment of the value of our common stock. Under these circumstances, persons who might otherwise accept our invitation to join our board of directo rs may decline. Foreign investors in our stock may face certain tax withholding rules if we are classified as a U.S. real property holding corporation. Under U.S. tax rules, a corporation is considered a U.S. real property holding corporation if the fair market value of its real property interests held by the corporation in the United States equals or exceeds 50% of the total fair market values of its real property interests and business assets. In such event, the foreign seller of stock in a publicly-traded corporation who owns more than 5% of that corporation’s common stock is subject to a tax withholding requirement imposed on the purchaser, equal to 10% of the sales price of the stock. This 10% withholding applies to the amount realized on the sale of the stock, irrespective of the seller’s gain on the sale. This withheld tax is treated as an advance payment against the actual individual or corporate capital-gains tax owed by the investor. In the event we were to be classified as a U.S. real property holding corporation, large foreign investors who hold more than 5% of our stock, would be subject to this 10% withholding requirement. Anti-takeover defenses that we have in place could prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to change our directors or management. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it more difficult for or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us without the approval of our Board of Directors. These provisions: · establish a classified Board of Directors, so that not all members of our Board of Directors may be elected at one time; · set limitations on the removal of directors; · limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders; · establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; · prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and · provide our Board of Directors the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. 26 These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our management team and may deprive investors of the opportunity to sell their shares to potential acquirers at a premium over prevailing prices. This potential inability to obtain a control premium could reduce the price of our common stock. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Our Board of Directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have not paid cash dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date, and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The success of an investment in our common stock will depend entirely upon any future appreciation. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders purchased their shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 