ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We will need to secure additional financing in the future and if we are unable to secure adequate funds on terms acceptable to us, we will be unable to support our business requirements, build our business or continue as a going concern. As of March 31, 2009, we had cash and cash equivalents on hand of $17.4 million and short term liabilities of $40.0 million. Cash used in operations was approximately $5.1 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009. If we are unable to generate revenue or secure additional financing when needed, we will be forced to reduce expenditures in order to continue as a going concern. Reduction of expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business. The amount and timing of our future capital needs depend on many factors, including the timing of our development efforts, opportunities for strategic transactions, and the amount and timing of any revenues we are able to generate. Given our current business strategy, however, we will need to secure additional financing in order to execute our plans and continue our operations. Over the next twelve months, we may have insufficient cash to meet all of our obligations as they come due. We have already modified payment terms in purchase orders with more than twenty of our vendors to structure payment plans for amounts past due and to be invoiced in the future. In the event we are unable to meet our obligations under payment plans and other agreements, we will have to ask our vendors to forebear from enforcing one or more of their rights under their respective agreements. There are no assurances that any of our vendors will agree to forebear or otherwise make any concessions under their respective agreements. If any of our vendors seek to enforce our obligations under these agreements that we are unable to perform, which could include asserting and/or foreclosing on materialman’s and laborer’s liens on the Pocatello facility, or taking other legal action, it could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and we may be forced to delay, alter or abandon our planned business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. There are no assurances that we will be successful in executing any of the foregoing alternatives. If we are unable to raise capital and manage our liquidity, there is substantial doubt that we will be able to continue as a going concern through at least March 31, 2010. The inability to continue as a going concern could result in an orderly wind-down of our business or other potential forms of restructuring. Our independent registered public accounting firm’s report on our fiscal 2009 financial statements questions our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm’s report on our financial statements for each of the three years in the period ended March 31, 2009, expresses doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Their report includes an explanatory paragraph stating that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern due to the lack of sufficient capital, as of the date their report was issued, to support our business plan through the end of fiscal year 2010. We will need to secure additional financing in the future and if we are unable to secure adequate funds at the times needed and on terms acceptable to us, we will be unable to support our business requirements, build our business or continue as a going concern. Accordingly, we can offer no assurance that the actions we plan to take to address these conditions will be successful. The inclusion of a “going concern modification” in the report of our independent accountants, in and of itself, may have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain financing and to conduct our business generally, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. We need at least $390 million to construct and equip our planned polysilicon production plant, and we may be unable to raise this amount of capital on favorable terms or at all. Our planned entry into the polysilicon market will require us to spend significant sums to support the construction of a facility to produce polysilicon, to purchase capital equipment, to fund new sales and marketing efforts, to pay for additional operating costs and to significantly increase our headcount. As a result, we expect our costs to increase significantly, which will result in further losses before we can begin to generate significant operating revenue from our Hoku Materials division. Based on our polysilicon supply agreements with our customers, we plan to equip and construct a polysilicon production plant in Pocatello, Idaho, with a production capacity of 4,000 metric tons of polysilicon per year. Our original estimated actual construction cost for a facility capable of producing 3,500 metric tons of polysilicon per year was $390 million; however, we have not yet determined what, if any, additional cost associated with the increase in our planned production output from 3,500 to 4,000 metric tons per year will be, and we continue to review our construction cost estimates. Our estimates are based on our discussion with vendors, declining costs of materials and labor and ongoing adjustments of certain design elements; however, changes in costs, modifications in construction timelines and other factors could significantly increase the actual costs. We plan on funding the remaining construction costs through customer prepayments and/or through debt or equity financing. As of May 31, 2009, we had received $155.5 million in customer prepayments under our supply contracts and expect to receive an additional $87.9 million in customer prepayments. As of March 31, 2009, we had also contributed an additional approximately $41 million to the construction cost of our polysilicon plant. 18 We have experienced delays in the receipt of customer prepayments from certain of our long-term polysilicon supply customers. If we experience further delays in receipt of these payments, receive reduced payments, or fail to receive any of them entirely, we could experience delays in our ability to continue the engineering, construction, and procurement of our polysilicon plant in order to deliver polysilicon in the second half of calendar year 2009, or within the time periods specified in our customer supply contracts, which could materially harm our business. Even if we receive these prepayments on time and in the amounts agreed upon, the actual costs to engineer, construct, and procure our planned polysilicon production plant could exceed our estimates, and we may be unable to raise any additional funding required to pay for any such added costs. If we are unable to begin producing polysilicon by the end of calendar year 2009 and meet our customer commitments, our business will be materially harmed and we may be forced to delay, alter or abandon our planned business operations. Assuming the total actual cost to complete the construction of our 4,000 metric ton plant is $390 million, we believe we will need to raise through one or more debt or equity offerings for the procurement and construction of our planned polysilicon manufacturing facility. If we must raise capital through one or more equity offerings, depending on the size of the offering, the issuance of our stock could result in material dilution to our existing stockholders’ voting power and/or share value. Prior to obtaining additional debt or equity financing we believe we will have to, among other things, satisfy potential lenders and investors that we have adequately addressed the principal risks that: (1) the construction of the polysilicon plant is not completed on time, on budget, or at all; (2) the polysilicon plant does not operate at its full capacity; (3) the polysilicon plant fails to generate sufficient revenue to service any debt; or (4) that the financing will not be sufficient to complete the construction, procurement and start-up of our planned polysilicon plant. If we fail to successfully address the risks of concern to potential lenders and investors, we may be unable to finance the construction of our planned production plant, our business will be materially harmed, and we may be forced to delay, alter or abandon our planned polysilicon business operations. In addition, any delay in achieving these objectives may result in additional expense which would harm our business. There are no assurances that we will be successful in executing any of the foregoing alternatives. If we are unable to raise capital and manage our liquidity, there is substantial doubt that we will be able to continue as a going concern through at least March 31, 2010. The inability to continue as a going concern could result in an orderly wind-down of our business or other potential forms of restructuring. The actual cost to construct and equip our planned polysilicon production facility may be significantly higher than our estimated cost. Our estimate of $390 million to construct and equip our polysilicon production facility is based on our discussion with vendors, declining costs of materials and labor and ongoing adjustments of certain design elements; however, changes in costs, modifications in construction timelines and other factors could cause our actual cost to significantly exceed our estimate. If the actual cost is significantly higher than we estimate, it could materially and adversely affect our ability to raise capital, to complete the planned polysilicon production facility on schedule or at all, and could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and we may be forced to delay, alter or abandon our planned business operations. Assuming the cost to complete the facility is $390 million, and assuming all of our polysilicon customers honor their commitments to make timely prepayments, we will still need to raise capital through one or more debt or equity offerings for the procurement and construction of our planned polysilicon manufacturing facility in an amount ranging between $35 million and $106 million. We previously intended to finance the construction of our polysilicon production facility through project financing; however, as of May 2009, we believe we will need to raise additional capital through other means for the procurement and construction of our polysilicon manufacturing facility. We continue to evaluate a variety of alternatives to finance the construction of our polysilicon production facility. These alternatives include one or more debt or equity offerings, government funding from grants, loan guarantees or other transactions, a consequence of which could include the sale or issuance of stock to third parties and/or a change of control. Assuming the total actual cost to construct and equip the facility is $390 million, that we are successful in receiving all customer prepayments that are presently committed to us when due, and that we secure additional prepayments from new polysilicon customers, we still believe we will need to raise no less than $35 million through one or more debt or equity financings. In the event we are unable to secure additional customer prepayments and supply contracts, assuming the cost to complete the plant does not exceed $390 million and that all of our current polysilicon supply customers honor their commitments to make timely prepayments, the amount we will need to raise could be as much as $106 million. If we are unable to secure additional customer prepayments and supply contracts, if one or more of our polysilicon supply customers fail to meet their obligation to make timely prepayments and/or the actual cost to complete the plant is more than $390 million, the amount we will need to raise could exceed $106 million. If we must raise capital through one or more equity offerings, depending on the size of the offering, the issuance of our stock could result in material impairment of our existing stockholders’ voting power, material impairment of our existing stockholders’ share value and/or a change of control. There are no assurances that we will be able to secure any additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, at the time such financing is needed, or at all. If we are unable to secure adequate debt or equity financing to complete construction of our polysilicon production facility in time to meet certain milestones and/or to meet our customer commitments, our business will be materially harmed and we may be forced to delay, alter or abandon our planned business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue as a going concern. This raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The inability to continue as a going concern could result in an orderly wind-down of our business or other potential forms of restructuring. 19 We have a limited operating history and, in calendar year 2006, determined to enter the photovoltaic installations and polysilicon markets and to redirect efforts and resources that were historically directed toward the fuel cell market. If we are unable to generate significant revenue from our PV installations and polysilicon segments, our business will be materially harmed. We were incorporated in March 2001 and have a limited operating history. We have cumulative net losses since our inception through March 31, 2009. In calendar year 2006, we announced a change in our main business and our intention to form a polysilicon business through our subsidiary, Hoku Materials, and a photovoltaic, or PV, system installation business through our subsidiary Hoku Solar. The polysilicon business includes developing production capabilities for, and the eventual production of, polysilicon. The PV systems installation business includes the design, engineering, procurement and installation of turnkey PV systems for residential and commercial customers. Prior to our announcement, our business was solely focused on the stationary and automotive fuel cell markets. We do not expect to generate any material revenue from Hoku Fuel Cells in the foreseeable future, and Hoku Materials does not currently generate any operating revenue. We have no prior experience in the polysilicon business. In order to be successful, we are devoting substantial management time and energy and significant capital resources to developing this new business, including the construction of a polysilicon production facility in Pocatello, Idaho. We commenced construction in May 2007, and expect to begin producing polysilicon beginning in the second half of calendar year 2009, with full-scale production to begin in the first half of calendar year 2010; however, there are no assurances that this schedule will not need to be further modified. Any delays beyond the second half of calendar year 2009 could result in the termination of one or more of our customer supply contracts, which would require us to refund substantial amounts of cash that has been paid to us as prepayments for future product deliveries. We have encountered, and expect that we will continue to encounter, significant risks relating to our entering into the polysilicon industry and changes in that industry, including potentially significant increases in polysilicon supply and falling polysilicon prices. If we are unable to address these risks and other risks successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. If any of our polysilicon plant engineering, construction, or key equipment vendors are late in providing their contract deliverables, we may be unable to complete the construction of our planned polysilicon plant to begin commercial shipments in the second half of calendar year 2009, or at all, which could materially harm our business. We have contracts with Stone & Webster, Inc. JH Kelly, LLC, GEC Graeber Engineering Consultants GmbH and MSA Apparatus Construction for Chemical Equipment, Ltd., Idaho Power Company, Dynamic Engineering Inc., AEG Power Solutions USA Inc., formerly known as Saft Power Systems USA, Inc., PVA Tepla Danmark, Polymet Alloys, Inc., BHS Acquisitions, LLC and our other vendors, contractors and consultants who are providing key services, equipment, and supplies for the engineering, construction and procurement of our planned polysilicon plant in Pocatello, Idaho. If we experience delays in the performance or delivery of the services, equipment, and goods under these respective agreements, we may be unable to commence production of polysilicon in the second half of calendar year 2009, to ramp-up production and commence commercial shipments in calendar year 2010, or deliver the volume of polysilicon that is required under our polysilicon supply agreements. If we are unable to secure adequate quantities of trichlorosilane on favorable terms and at the times needed, our business will be materially harmed. We have decided to defer approximately $40 million in capital expenditures by delaying construction of our on-site trichlorosilane, or TCS, production facility. TCS is needed to produce polysilicon. We are in discussions with third-party TCS producers for a TCS supply contract to enable us to execute on this strategy. There are no assurances, however, that we will be able to secure adequate TCS at the time and in the amounts needed on favorable terms, or at all. If we are unable to secure adequate TCS on favorable terms and at the times needed, we may be unable to meet certain milestones in our customer contracts or to meet our customer supply commitments and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially harmed. We may have difficulty managing changes in our operations, which could harm our business. To date we have expended significant financial and management resources in connection with our planned entry into the polysilicon market and the development of our PV system installation business. For example, in May 2007, we commenced construction of our planned polysilicon facility in Pocatello, Idaho. Construction of the planned polysilicon facility and the operation of the polysilicon manufacturing and PV system installation businesses will involve substantial changes to our operations and place a significant strain on our senior management team and financial and other resources, and will, among other things, require us to significantly increase our international activities; hire and train additional financial, accounting sales and marketing personnel; and make substantial investment in our engineering, logistics, financial and information systems, including implementing new enterprise-level transaction processing, operational and financial management information systems, procedures and controls. Any failure by us to manage the expansion of our operations or succeed in these markets or other markets that we may enter in the future, may harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 20 If our supply agreement with Wuxi Suntech Power Co., Ltd. is terminated for any reason, our business will be materially harmed. In May 2008, we amended our polysilicon supply agreement with Wuxi Suntech Power Co., Ltd., or Suntech, for the sale and delivery of polysilicon to Suntech over a ten-year period, or the Amended Suntech Supply Agreement. Under the Amended Suntech Supply Agreement, up to approximately $678 million may be payable to us during the ten-year period, subject to the achievement of certain milestones, the acceptance of product deliveries and other conditions. Pursuant to the Amended Suntech Supply Agreement, we granted to Suntech a security interest in all of our tangible and intangible assets related to our polysilicon business to serve as collateral for our obligations under the Amended Suntech Supply Agreement. These security interests are pari-passu with the security interests granted to our other five long-term supply customers. The customer security interests provide that they would be junior to the collateral interest of any lender providing debt financing for plant construction. Each party may elect to terminate the Amended Suntech Supply Agreement under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to: • the bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors or liquidation of the other party; or • the insolvency of the other party; or • a material breach of the other party. Suntech may also terminate the agreement for the following material breaches: • if we enter into customer commitments to deliver more than the rated capacity of our plant, subject to exceptions for planned expansion and increases in productivity; or • if we fail to deliver a predetermined quantity of our polysilicon product by December 2009; or • if we fail to complete successfully any of the polysilicon quality and production volume tests or the process implementation test set forth in the agreement within specified periods of time during calendar year 2009. In addition, in the instance of extraordinary events, including events of force majeure and other events outside of our control, which result in our inability to perform under the terms of the Amended Suntech Supply Agreement, we are afforded only a limited amount of time to cure such conditions. In the event we fail to cure the condition so that we can supply our product to Suntech or otherwise satisfy our delivery requirements by delivering to Suntech third-party polysilicon purchased in the open market, Suntech may terminate the Amended Suntech Supply Agreement. There is a material risk that we will be unable to meet one or more of the milestones set forth in the Amended Suntech Supply Agreement within the specified period of time during calendar year 2009. If we are unable to meet one or more milestones, Suntech has the right to terminate the Amended Suntech Supply Agreement. If the Amended Suntech Supply Agreement is terminated for any reason, our business will be materially harmed. In addition, if the Amended Suntech Supply Agreement is terminated by Suntech, we will be required to return any deposits and advance payments received up to the date of the termination, which was $2 million as of as of March 31, 2009, and we will need to secure new funds in order to finance the construction of our polysilicon production plant. Securing new funds may delay the anticipated timing of completion of the production plant, which delay may result in us failing to meet our delivery requirements under our other supply agreements. We may not be able to secure new funds on terms as favorable to us as those under the Amended Suntech Supply Agreement or at all. If we are unable to secure new funds, we will not be able to complete construction of the production plant, our business will be materially harmed and we may be forced to delay, alter or abandon our planned business operations. If our supply agreement with Solarfun Power Hong Kong Limited is terminated for any reason, our business will be materially harmed. In May 2008, we and Solarfun Power Hong Kong Limited, or Solarfun, a subsidiary of Solarfun Power Holdings Co., Ltd., or Solarfun Holdings, entered into a Second Amended and Restated Supply Agreement, or the Solarfun Supply Agreement, pursuant to which we have agreed to sell to Solarfun, and Solarfun has agreed to purchase from us, specified quantities of polysilicon over a ten-year period. In March 2009, we entered into Amendment No. 2 to the Second Amended and Restated Solarfun Supply Agreement with Solarfun, or Solarfun Amendment No. 2. Under Solarfun Amendment No. 2, up to approximately $384 million may be payable to us over a ten year period. Pursuant to the Second Amended and Restated Solarfun Supply Agreement and Solarfun Amendment No. 2, we granted to Solarfun a security interest in all of our tangible and intangible assets related to our polysilicon business to serve as collateral for our obligations under the Second Amended and Restated Solarfun Supply Agreement and Solarfun Amendment No. 2. These security interests are pari-passu with the security interests granted to our other five long-term supply customers. The customer security interests provide that they would be junior to the collateral interest of any lender providing debt financing for plant construction. Each party may elect to terminate the Second Amended and Restated Solarfun Supply Agreement and Solarfun Amendment No. 2 under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to: • the bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors or liquidation of the other party; or • the insolvency of the other party; or 21 • a material breach of the other party. Solarfun may also terminate the Second Amended and Restated Solarfun Supply Agreement and Solarfun Amendment No. 2 if we fail to deliver a predetermined quantity of polysilicon product by June 2010. In addition, in the instance of extraordinary events, including events of force majeure and other events outside of our control, which result in our inability to perform under the terms of the Second Amended and Restated Solarfun Supply Agreement, as amended by Solarfun Amendment No. 2, we are afforded only a limited amount of time to cure such conditions. In the event we fail to cure the condition so that we can supply our product to Solarfun or otherwise satisfy our delivery requirements by delivering to Solarfun third-party polysilicon purchased in the open market, Solarfun may terminate the Second Amended and Restated Solarfun Supply Agreement and Solarfun Amendment No. 2. If the Second Amended and Restated Solarfun Supply Agreement and Solarfun Amendment No. 2 are terminated for any reason, our business will be materially harmed. In addition, if the Second Amended and Restated Solarfun Supply Agreement and Solarfun Amendment No. 2 are terminated by Solarfun, we will be required to return any deposits and advance payments received up to the date of the termination, which was $37 million as of March 31, 2009, and we will need to secure new funds in order to finance the construction of our polysilicon production plant. Securing new funds may delay the anticipated timing of completion of the production plant, which delay may result in us failing to meet our delivery requirements under our polysilicon supply agreements. We may not be able to secure new funds on terms as favorable to us as those under the Second Amended and Restated Solarfun Supply Agreement and Solarfun Amendment No. 2, or at all. If we are unable to secure new funds, we will not be able to complete construction of the production plant, our business will be materially harmed and we may be forced to delay, alter or abandon our planned business operations. If our supply agreement with Jiangxi Jinko Solar Co., Ltd. is terminated for any reason, our business will be materially harmed. In February 2009, we entered into an Amended & Restated Supply Agreement with Jiangxi Jinko Solar Co., Ltd., or the Amended Jinko Supply Agreement. Under the Amended Jinko Agreement, up to approximately $119 million may be payable to us during a ten-year period, subject to product deliveries and other conditions. Pursuant to the Amended Jinko Supply Agreement, we granted to Jinko a security interest in all of our tangible and intangible assets related to our polysilicon business to serve as collateral for our obligations under the Amended Jinko Supply Agreement. These security interests are pari-passu with the security interests granted to our other five long-term supply customers. The customer security interests provide that they would be junior to the collateral interest of any lender providing debt financing for plant construction. Each party may elect to terminate the Amended Jinko Supply Agreement under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to: • the bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors or liquidation of the other party; or • the insolvency of the other party; or • a material breach of the other party. Jinko may also terminate the agreement if we fail to deliver a predetermined quantity of our polysilicon product by December 31, 2009. In addition, in the instance of extraordinary events, including events of force majeure and other events outside of our control, which result in our inability to perform under the terms of the Amended Jinko Supply Agreement, we are afforded only a limited amount of time to cure such conditions. In the event we fail to cure the condition so that we can supply our product to Jinko or otherwise satisfy our delivery requirements by delivering to Jinko third-party polysilicon purchased in the open market, Jinko may terminate the Amended Jinko Supply Agreement. If the Amended Jinko Supply Agreement is terminated for any reason, our business will be materially harmed. In addition, if the Amended Jinko Supply Agreement is terminated by Jinko, we will be required to return any deposits and advance payments received up to the date of the termination, which was $18 million as of March 31, 2009, and we will need to secure new funds in order to finance the construction of our polysilicon production plant. Securing new funds may delay the anticipated timing of completion of the production plant, which delay may result in us failing to meet our delivery requirements under our other supply agreements. We may not be able to secure new funds on terms as favorable to us as those under the Amended Jinko Supply Agreement or at all. If we are unable to secure new funds, we will not be able to complete construction of the production plant, our business will be materially harmed and we may be forced to delay, alter or abandon our planned business operations. If either of our supply agreements with Tianwei New Energy (Chengdu) Wafer Co., Ltd. is terminated for any reason, our business will be materially harmed. In August 2008, we entered into a supply agreement with Tianwei New Energy (Chengdu) Wafer Co., Ltd., or Tianwei, for the sale and delivery of polysilicon to Tianwei over a ten-year period, or Tianwei Supply Agreement No. 1. Under Tianwei Supply Agreement No. 1, up to approximately $284 million may be payable to us during the ten-year period, subject to the acceptance of product deliveries and other conditions. In September 2008, we entered into a second supply agreement with Tianwei for the sale and delivery of polysilicon to Tianwei over a ten-year period, or Tianwei Supply Agreement No. 2. Under Tianwei Supply Agreement No. 2, as amended by that Amendment to Tianwei Supply Agreement No. 2, up to approximately $244 million may be payable to us during the ten-year period, subject to the acceptance of product deliveries and other conditions. 22 Pursuant to Tianwei Supply Agreement No. 1 and Tianwei Supply Agreement No. 2, or the Tianwei Supply Agreements, we have granted to Tianwei a security interest in all of our tangible and intangible assets related to our polysilicon business to serve as collateral for our obligations under the Tianwei Supply Agreements. This security interest is pari-passu with the security interests granted to our other five long-term supply customers. The customer security interests provide that they would be junior to the collateral interest of any lender providing debt financing for plant construction. Each party may elect to terminate either of the Tianwei Supply Agreements under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to: • the bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors or liquidation of the other party; or • the insolvency of the other party; or • a material breach of the other party. In addition, in the instance of extraordinary events, including events of force majeure and other events outside of our control, which result in our inability to perform under the terms of either or both of the Tianwei Supply Agreements, we are afforded only a limited amount of time to cure such conditions. In the event we fail to cure the condition so that we can supply our product to Tianwei or otherwise satisfy our delivery requirements by delivering to Tianwei third-party polysilicon purchased in the open market, Tianwei may terminate the respective Tianwei Supply Agreement. Tianwei may also terminate Tianwei Supply Agreement No. 1 if we fail to deliver a predetermined quantity of our polysilicon product by March 2010. Tianwei may terminate Tianwei Supply Agreement No. 2 if we fail to deliver a predetermined quantity of our polysilicon product by June 2010. Upon a termination of Tianwei Supply Agreement No. 1 by Tianwei due to our failure to deliver polysilicon in the amounts and by the dates required in the contract, we are required to refund to Tianwei 150% of the prepayments made as of the date of such termination, which is $42 million as of May 31, 2009, less any part of thereof that has been applied to the purchase price of products previously delivered to Tianwei. In most other cases, if Tianwei terminates Tianwei Supply Agreement No. 1, then we are required to refund to Tianwei 100% of the prepayments made as of the date of termination, less any part of thereof that has been applied to the purchase price of products previously delivered under the contract. Upon a termination of Tianwei Supply Agreement No. 2 by Tianwei due to our failure to deliver polysilicon in the amounts and by the dates required in the contract, we are required to refund to Tianwei 150% of the prepayments made as of the date of termination, which is $34.5 million as of May 31, 2009, less any part thereof that has been applied to the purchase price of products previously delivered to Tianwei. In most other cases, if Tianwei terminates Tianwei Supply Agreement, No. 2, then we are required to refund to Tianwei 100% of the prepayments made as of the date of termination, less any part thereof that has been applied to the purchase price of products previously delivered under the contract. If either or both of the Tianwei Supply Agreements is terminated for any reason, our business will be materially harmed. In addition, if Tianwei Supply Agreement No. 1 is terminated, we will be required to return any deposits and advance payments received up to the date of the termination, which is $42 million as of May 31, 2009. If Tianwei Supply Agreement No. 2 is terminated, we will be required to return any deposits and advance payments received up to the date of the termination, which is $34.5 million as of May 31, 2009. In the event of the termination of either of the Tianwei Supply Agreements, we will need to secure new funds in order to finance the construction of our polysilicon production plant. Securing new funds may delay the anticipated timing of completion of our production plant, which delay may result in us failing to meet our delivery requirements under our other supply agreements. We may not be able to secure new funds on terms as favorable to us as those under the Tianwei Supply Agreements, or at all. If we are unable to secure new funds, we will not be able to complete construction of the production plant, our business will be materially and adversely affected and we may be forced to delay, alter or abandon our planned business operations. If our supply agreement with Wealthy Rise International, Ltd. is terminated for any reason, our business will be materially harmed. In April 2009, we entered into an Amended and Restated Supply Agreement, or the Amended Solargiga Supply Agreement, with Wealthy Rise International, Ltd., or Solargiga, pursuant to which up to approximately $136 million may be payable to us over a ten-year period, subject to product deliveries and other conditions. Pursuant to the Amended Solargiga Supply Agreement, we granted to Solargiga a security interest in all of our tangible and intangible assets related to our polysilicon business to serve as collateral for our obligations under the Amended Solargiga Supply Agreement. These security interests are pari-passu with the security interests granted to our other five long-term supply customers. The customer security interests provide that they would be junior to the collateral interest of any lender providing debt financing for plant construction. Each party may elect to terminate the Amended Solargiga Supply Agreement under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to: • the bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors or liquidation of the other party; or • the insolvency of the other party; or • a material breach of the other party. Solargiga may also terminate the agreement if we fail to deliver a predetermined quantity of our polysilicon product by October 31, 2010. In addition, in the instance of extraordinary events, including events of force majeure and other events outside of our control, which result in our inability to perform under the terms of the Amended Solargiga Supply Agreement, we are afforded only a limited amount of time to cure such conditions. In the event we fail to cure the condition so that we can supply our product to Solargiga or otherwise satisfy our delivery requirements by delivering to Solargiga third-party polysilicon purchased in the open market, Solargiga may terminate the Amended Solargiga Supply Agreement. 23 If the Amended Solargiga Supply Agreement is terminated for any reason, our business will be materially harmed. In addition, if the Amended Solargiga Supply Agreement is terminated by Solargiga as a result of our failure to deliver polysilicon in the amounts and by the dates required in the Amended Solargiga Supply Agreement, we are required to refund to Solargiga all of the prepayments made as of the date of such termination, which was $7 million as of April 30, 2009 ($0 as of March 31, 2009), less any part of thereof that has been applied to the purchase price of polysilicon delivered under the Amended Solargiga Supply Agreement. Moreover, we will need to secure new funds in order to finance the construction of our polysilicon production plant. Securing new funds may delay the anticipated timing of completion of the production plant, which delay may result in us failing to meet our delivery requirements under our other supply agreements. We may not be able to secure new funds on terms as favorable to us as those under the Amended Solargiga Supply Agreement or at all. If we are unable to secure new funds, we will not be able to complete construction of the production plant, our business will be materially harmed and we may be forced to delay, alter or abandon our planned business operations. If our Agreement with Shanghai Alex New Energy Co., Ltd. is terminated for any reason, our business will be materially harmed. In February 2009, we entered into a supply agreement with Shanghai Alex New Energy Co., Ltd., or Alex, for the sale and delivery of polysilicon to Alex over a ten-year period, or the Alex Supply Agreement. Under the Alex Supply Agreement, approximately $119 million may be payable to us during a ten-year period, subject to product deliveries and other conditions. Pursuant to the Alex Supply Agreement, we granted to Alex a security interest in all of our tangible and intangible assets related to our polysilicon business to serve as collateral for our obligations under the Alex Supply Agreement. These security interests are pari-passu with the security interests granted to our other five long-term supply customers. The customer security interests provide that they would be junior to the collateral interest of any lender providing debt financing for plant construction. Each party may elect to terminate the Alex Supply Agreement under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to: • the bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors or liquidation of the other party; or • the insolvency of the other party; or • a material breach of the other party. Alex may also terminate the agreement if we fail to deliver a predetermined quantity of our polysilicon product by March 31, 2010. In addition, in the instance of extraordinary events, including events of force majeure and other events outside of our control, which result in our inability to perform under the terms of the Alex Supply Agreement, we are afforded only a limited amount of time to cure such conditions. In the event we fail to cure the condition so that we can supply our product to Alex or otherwise satisfy our delivery requirements by delivering to Alex third-party polysilicon purchased in the open market, Alex may terminate the Alex Supply Agreement. If the Alex Supply Agreement is terminated for any reason, our business may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if the Alex Supply Agreement is terminated by Alex as a result of our failure to deliver polysilicon in the amounts and by the dates required in the Alex Supply Agreement, we are required to refund to Alex all of the prepayments made as of the date of termination, which was $15 million as of March 31, 2009, less any part thereof that has been applied to the purchase price of polysilicon delivered under the Alex Supply Agreement. Moreover, we will need to secure new funds in order to finance the construction of our polysilicon production plant. Securing new funds may delay the anticipated timing of completion of the production plant, which delay may result in us failing to meet our delivery requirements under our other supply agreements. We may not be able to secure new funds on terms as favorable to us as those under the Alex Supply Agreement or at all. If we are unable to secure new funds, we will not be able to complete construction of the production plant, our business will be materially and adversely affected and we may be forced to delay, alter or abandon our planned business operations. We will face intense competition in the polysilicon market from large competitors with significantly greater operating histories and financial and technological resources. We expect polysilicon supply to increase and competition to further intensify. In the polysilicon market, we will compete with companies such as Hemlock Semiconductor Corporation, Renewable Energy Corporation ASA, Mitsubishi Polycrystalline Silicon America Corporation, Mitsubishi Materials Corporation, Tokuyama Corporation, MEMC Electronic Materials, Inc., and Wacker Chemie AG. In addition, new companies have emerged in China, Korea, India, Europe, Brazil, Australia, North America, and the Middle East, and new technologies, such as fluidized bed reactors and direct solidification, are emerging, which may have significant cost and other advantages over the Siemens process we are planning to use to produce polysilicon at our production facility. These competitors may have longer operating histories, greater name recognition and greater financial, sales and marketing, technical and other resources than us. As a result of these disparities, we may be unable to successfully obtain and retain the customer and supplier relationships necessary to be successful in the polysilicon market and PV system installation market, and our operating results and our businesses may suffer. Certain polysilicon producers have announced plans to invest heavily in the expansion of their production capacities in view of the recent scarcity of solar-grade silicon. These initiatives may increase the visibility of already-operational competitors in the industry and their promised delivery capacities, making it more difficult for us to establish market share as a new entrant, especially given the fact that our production facility is not yet operational. Further, as these initiatives develop, we expect significant additional production capacity to come on-line in fiscal 2010, near in time to when our proposed polysilicon facility is scheduled to become fully operational. This additional capacity may suppress prices, which could make it more difficult to retain our existing customer relationships and to make new relationships, and otherwise adversely affect our business. 24 Fluctuations in industrial production capacity for polysilicon could harm our business. Certain polysilicon producers have invested heavily in the expansion of their production capacities in view of the recent scarcity of solar-grade polysilicon. We currently expect significant additional capacity to come on-line in fiscal 2010, near in time to when our proposed polysilicon facility is scheduled become fully operational. In addition, if an excess supply of electronic-grade polysilicon were to develop, producers of electronic-grade silicon could switch production to solar-grade polysilicon, causing the price of solar-grade polysilicon to decline more rapidly than we currently anticipate. The electronic-grade polysilicon market historically has experienced significant cyclicality; for example, that market experienced significant excess supply from 1998 through 2003. Moreover, the forecasted increases in polysilicon supply could also be exacerbated if the demand for polysilicon decreases significantly as a result of the introduction of new technologies that materially reduce or eliminate the need for polysilicon in producing effective PV systems. If any of these events occurred, they could result in an excess supply of solar-grade polysilicon and could suppress market prices for solar-grade polysilicon. Any such suppression of market prices for polysilicon would affect the price which we could expect to receive in selling our polysilicon in the spot market and could provide our customers with incentives to reconsider or renegotiate their long-term supply contracts with us to the extent the polysilicon deliverable under those contracts is priced above prevailing market prices. During fiscal year 2009, spot market prices of polysilicon decreased dramatically with an increase in supply, and further price declines are possible in fiscal 2010 as additional supply is forecasted to enter the market. Further decreases in demand and polysilicon prices could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, in the past, industry-wide shortages of polysilicon have created shortages of PV modules and increased prices for such modules. In the event of a polysilicon shortage, any inability to obtain PV modules at commercially reasonable prices, or at all, would adversely affect our PV system installation business by reducing our ability to meet potential customer demand for our products or to provide products at competitive prices. Any continued industry shortage in available polysilicon could delay the potential growth of our PV system installations business, thereby harming our business. We rely on limited suppliers and, if these suppliers fail to deliver materials that meet our quality requirements in a timely, cost-effective manner or at all, our production of polysilicon and our installation of PV systems would be limited. It is highly likely that we will procure materials for our PV system installation business from vertically integrated solar module manufacturing and installation companies that are also our competitors. These companies may choose in the future not to sell these materials to us at all, or may raise their prices to a level that would prevent us from selling our goods and services on a profitable basis. In our polysilicon business we rely heavily on our contracted suppliers of key process technologies and infrastructure including such components as the reactors and the TCS process. If any of these suppliers fail to perform their contractual obligations, we will be required to seek alternative suppliers and likely will not be able to commence production of polysilicon at our planned polysilicon production facility on our current schedule. Any such production delays may result in a breach of one or more of our supply agreements with Alex, Suntech, Solarfun, Jinko, Tianwei and/or Solargiga and such breaches may allow these customers to terminate the supply agreements and seek a return of prepayments, which would harm our business and may make impossible the completion of our polysilicon production facility. Even if we achieve our polysilicon and PV system installation objectives on a timely basis and complete the construction of our polysilicon production plant as currently planned, we may still be unsuccessful in developing, producing and/or selling these products and services, which would harm our business. If we are successful in our efforts to construct our polysilicon production facility, our ability to successfully compete in the polysilicon and PV system installation markets will depend on a number of factors, including: • our ability to produce or procure TCS and polysilicon, and install PV systems at costs that allow us to achieve or maintain profitability in these businesses; • our ability to successfully manage a much larger and growing enterprise, with a broader national and international presence; • our ability to attract new customers and expand existing customer relationships; • our ability to develop new technologies to become competitive through cost reductions; • our ability to scale our business to be competitive; • our ability to predict and adapt to changing market conditions, including the price of inputs and the spot price for polysilicon sold in the market by us or purchased by us from third-parties to settle customer commitments; and • future product liability or warranty claims. 25 If our PV system installation competitors are able to develop and market products that customers prefer to our products, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to continue operations. The market for PV systems installations is competitive and continually evolving. As a new entrant to this market, we expect to face substantial competition from companies such as SunPower Corporation, SunEdison, and other new and emerging companies throughout many parts of the world. Many of our known competitors are established players in the solar industry, and have a stronger market position than ours and have larger resources and name recognition than we have. Furthermore, the PV market in general competes with other sources of renewable energy and conventional power generation. Technological development in the solar power industry could reduce market demand for polysilicon or allow for lower cost production of polysilicon by our competitors, which could cause our sales and profit to decline. The solar power industry is characterized by evolving technologies and standards. Technological evolutions and developments in PV products, including thin-film technologies, higher PV efficiency and thinner wafers may decrease the demand for polysilicon by PV module manufacturers, and some manufacturers are developing alternative solar technologies that require significantly less silicon than crystalline silicon-based solar cells and modules, or no polysilicon at all. If these developing technologies prove more advantageous in application and are widely adopted, we may experience a decrease in demand for our polysilicon and a decrease in our sales or operating margins. Additionally, other technologies for the production of polysilicon are increasing in prevalence in the industry. Technologies which compete with the Siemens reactor process, including fluidized bed reactor process, may enable the manufacture of polysilicon more quickly or at lower cost than does the Siemens reactor process. To the extent that our competitors adopt other technologies that enable them to compete more effectively, our operating margins and price-competitiveness may be impacted. In the event that we are unable to re-design our production facility around these more efficient processes on manageable timetables and at reasonable cost, our business could be adversely affected. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past, and we expect a number of factors to cause our operating results to continue to fluctuate in the future, making it difficult for us to accurately forecast our quarterly and annual operating results. Hoku Materials does not currently generate any operating revenue and we do not expect to generate any material revenue from Hoku Fuel Cells in the foreseeable future. All of our revenue presently is generated by Hoku Solar and our PV system installation activities. Our future operating results and cash flows will depend on many factors that will impact our polysilicon business run by Hoku Materials, our PV system installation business run by Hoku Solar and our fuel cell business, including the following: • the size and timing of customer orders, milestone achievement, product delivery and customer acceptance, if required; • the length of contract negotiation cycles, • the timing of equipment delivery and procurement, integration and testing, • our success in obtaining prepayments from customers for future shipments of polysilicon; • our success in maintaining and enhancing existing strategic relationships and developing new strategic relationships with potential customers; • our ability to finance power purchase agreements for potential PV system installation customers; • actions taken by our competitors, including new product introductions and pricing changes; • the costs of maintaining our operations; • customer budget cycles and changes in these budget cycles; and • external economic and industry conditions. As a result of these factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investors’ views of us. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place to help ensure that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. In May 2007, we commenced construction of our planned polysilicon facility in Pocatello, Idaho. Construction of the planned polysilicon facility and the operation of our polysilicon manufacturing business and PV system installation businesses will involve substantial changes to our operations will require us to increase our international activities, hire and train additional financial and accounting personnel, make substantial investments in our engineering, logistics, financial and information systems, including implementing new enterprise-level transaction processing, operational, financial and accounting management information systems, procedures and controls. In connection with the planned increased scale of our polysilicon manufacturing business and PV system installation businesses and our implementation of new operational and financial management information systems to accommodate these businesses, we expect to engage in a process of documenting, reviewing and improving our internal control and procedures in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires an annual assessment by management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We conduct annual testing of our internal controls in connection with the Section 404 requirements and, as part of that documentation and testing, we may identify areas for further attention and improvement. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal controls may entail substantial costs in order to modify our existing accounting systems and take a significant period of time to complete, and may distract our officers, directors and employees from the operation of our business. Further, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the internal controls, disclosure controls and IT infrastructure of the businesses that we may acquire in the future. These changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal controls, and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and could materially impair our ability to operate our business. In addition, investors’ perceptions that our internal controls are inadequate or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements may seriously affect our stock price. 26 We may not be able to protect our intellectual property, and we could incur substantial costs defending ourselves against claims that our products infringe on the proprietary rights of others. Our ability to compete effectively in the fuel cell market will depend on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights with respect to our membranes, our membrane electrode assemblies, or MEAs and manufacturing processes and any intellectual property we develop with respect to our polysilicon business. We rely in part on patents, trade secrets and policies and procedures related to confidentiality to protect our intellectual property. However, much of our intellectual property is not covered by any patent or patent application. Confidentiality agreements to which we are party may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Our trade secrets may also become known without breach of these agreements or may be independently developed by our competitors. Our inability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology and processes could allow our competitors to limit or eliminate any of our potential competitive advantages. Moreover, our patent applications may not result in the grant of patents either in the United States or elsewhere. Further, in the case of our issued patents or our patents that may issue, we do not know whether the claims allowed will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology or processes. Even if some or all of our patent applications that issue are sufficiently broad, our patents may be challenged or invalidated and we may not be able to enforce them. We could incur substantial costs in prosecuting or defending patent infringement suits or otherwise protecting our intellectual property rights. We do not know whether we have been or will be completely successful in safeguarding and maintaining our proprietary rights. Moreover, patent applications filed in foreign countries may be subject to laws, rules and procedures that are substantially different from those of the United States, and any resulting foreign patents may be difficult and expensive to enforce. Further, our competitors may independently develop or patent technologies or processes that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. If we are found to be infringing third-party patents, we could be required to pay substantial royalties and/or damages, and we do not know whether we will be able to obtain licenses to use these patents on acceptable terms, if at all. Failure to obtain needed licenses could delay or prevent the development, production or sale of our products, and could necessitate the expenditure of significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing intellectual property. Asserting, defending and maintaining our intellectual property rights could be difficult and costly, and failure to do so might diminish our ability to compete effectively and harm our operating results. We may need to pursue lawsuits or legal actions in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and domain names, and to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. If third parties prepare and file applications for trademarks used or registered by us, we may oppose those applications and be required to participate in proceedings to determine priority of rights to the trademark. We cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered by our issued patent or our pending patent applications or that we were the first to invent technology because: • some patent applications in the United States may be maintained in secrecy until the patents are issued; • patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing; and • publications in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries and the filing of patents relating to those discoveries. Competitors may have filed applications for patents, may have received patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights relating to products or technology that block or compete with our products and technology. Due to the various technologies involved in the development of fuel cell systems, including membrane and MEA technologies, and photovoltaic products, it is impracticable for us to affirmatively identify and review all issued patents that may affect our products. Although we have no knowledge that our products and technology infringe any third party’s intellectual property rights, we cannot be sure that we do not infringe any third party’s intellectual property rights. We may have to participate in interference proceedings to determine the priority of invention and the right to a patent for the technology. Litigation and interference proceedings, even if they are successful, are expensive to pursue and time-consuming, and we could use a substantial amount of our financial resources in either case. 27 The loss of any of our executive officers or the failure to attract or retain specialized technical and management personnel could impair our ability to grow our business. We are highly dependent on our executive officers, including Dustin M. Shindo, our Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Karl M. Taft III, our Chief Technology Officer. Due to the specialized knowledge that each of our executive officers possesses with respect to our technology or operations, the loss of service of any of our executive officers would harm our business. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers, and each may terminate his employment without notice and without cause or good reason. In addition, we do not carry key man life insurance on our executive officers. There is a limited pool of qualified applicants for our operations located in Hawaii capable of meeting our specialized needs. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified management and technical personnel, many of whom must be relocated from the continental United States or other countries. In addition, we will need to hire and train specialized engineers to manage and operate our planned polysilicon facility in Pocatello, Idaho. We may not be successful in hiring or retaining qualified personnel. Our inability to hire qualified personnel on a timely basis, or the departure of key employees, could harm our business. We will use materials that are considered hazardous in our planned polysilicon manufacturing and production processes and, therefore, we could be held liable for any losses that result from the use and handling of such hazardous materials, with respect to losses which we do not carry insurance. The production of polysilicon will involve the use of materials that are hazardous to human health and the environment, the storage, handling and disposal of which will be subject to government regulation. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may increase our manufacturing costs and may require us to halt or suspend our operations until we regain compliance. If we have an accident at our facility involving a spill or release of these substances, we may be subject to civil and/or criminal penalties, including financial penalties and damages, and possibly injunctions preventing us from continuing our operations. Any liability for penalties or damages, and any injunction resulting from damages to the environment or public health and safety, could harm our business. In addition under various Federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner or operator of real estate is liable for costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances on or in such property. These laws often impose such liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such substances. We do not have any insurance for liabilities arising from the use and handling of hazardous materials. Our manufacturing business will involve many operating risks that can cause substantial losses. The manufacture of our polysilicon may involve one or more of the following risks: · fires; · explosions; · blow-outs; · uncontrollable flow of gases; and · pipe or cement failures. In the event that any of the foregoing events occur, we could incur substantial losses as a result of injury or loss of life; severe damage or destruction of property, natural resources or equipment; pollution and other environmental damage; investigatory and clean-up responsibilities; regulatory investigation and penalties; suspension of operations; or repairs to resume operations. If we experience any of these problems, our ability to conduct operations could be adversely affected. These conditions can cause substantial damage to facilities and interrupt production. If realized, the foregoing risks could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any significant and prolonged disruption of our operations in Hawaii could result in PV system installation delays that would reduce our revenue. Hoku Solar’s business operations are currently located exclusively in the state of Hawaii, which is subject to the potential risk of earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods and other natural disasters. The occurrence of an earthquake, hurricane, tsunami, flood or other natural disaster in Hawaii could result in damage, power outages and other disruptions that would interfere with our ability to conduct our PV system installation business. In October 2006, for example, Hawaii suffered a major earthquake causing significant damage throughout the state. Our facilities and operations, however, did not suffer any damage. Most of the materials we use in our PV system installation business must be delivered via air or sea. Hawaii has a large union presence and has historically experienced labor disputes, including dockworker strikes, which could prevent or delay cargo shipments. Any future dispute that delays shipments via air or sea could prevent us from procuring or installing our turnkey PV systems in time to meet our customers’ requirements, or might require us to seek alternative and more expensive freight forwarders or contract manufacturers, which could increase our expenses. 28 We have significant international activities and customers, particularly in China, that subject us to additional business risks, including increased logistical complexity and regulatory requirements, which could result in a decline in our revenue. Our current polysilicon supply agreements are with Alex, Suntech, Jinko, Solarfun, Tianwei and Solargiga, all of which are located in The People’s Republic of China, or China, and Hong Kong. As a result, we will be engaging in significant international sales of our polysilicon, which can be subject to many inherent risks that are difficult or impossible for us to predict or control, including: • political and economic instability; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and tariffs; • difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations, including foreign distributor relationships; • longer accounts receivable collection cycles in certain foreign countries; • adverse economic or political changes; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • more limited protection for intellectual property in some countries; • potential trade restrictions, exchange controls and import and export licensing requirements; • U.S. and foreign government policy changes affecting the markets for our products; • problems in collecting accounts receivable; and • potentially adverse tax consequences of overlapping tax structures. All of our polysilicon supply contracts are denominated in U.S. dollars. Therefore, increases in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar to foreign currencies will cause our products to become relatively more expensive to customers in those countries, which could lead to a reduction in sales or profitability in some cases. All of our polysilicon customers are located in China and Hong Kong, which involves various political and economic risks. Presently, all of our long-term polysilicon supply contracts are with companies based in China and Hong Kong. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be disproportionately affected by economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: · the higher level of government involvement and regulation; · the early stage of development of the market-oriented sector of the economy; · the rapid growth rate; and · the higher level of control over foreign exchange. China’s government continues to exercise significant control over economic growth in China through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and imposing policies that impact particular industries or companies in different ways. China’s government also sets policy with respect to the use of alternative energy such as solar. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to comply with the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Non-U.S. companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in practices such as bribery, pay-offs or other fraudulent practices in China, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 Adverse general economic conditions could harm our business. Adverse overall economic conditions that impact consumer spending could impact our results of operations. Future economic conditions affecting disposable income such as employment levels, consumer confidence, credit availability, business conditions, stock market volatility, weather conditions, acts of terrorism, pandemic, threats of war, and interest and tax rates could reduce consumer spending or cause consumers to shift their spending away from our goods and services. If the economic conditions continue to be adverse or worsen, we may experience material adverse impacts on our business, operating results and financial condition. A drop in the retail price of conventional energy or non-solar renewable energy sources could harm our business. The price of conventional energy can affect the demand for alternative energy solutions such as solar. Fluctuations in economic and market conditions that impact the prices of conventional and non-solar renewable energy sources could cause the demand for solar energy systems to decline, which would have a negative impact on our business. Inexpensive prices for oil and other fossil fuels and utility electric rates could also have a negative effect on our PV system installation and polysilicon production businesses. Conversely, our polysilicon manufacturing process uses significant amounts of electric energy. High energy prices, therefore, could increase our production costs, and increases in the cost of electricity reduce our margins. Although we have entered into a long term contract with Idaho Power to supply electric power to our polysilicon plant at a fixed rate, the Idaho Public Utilities Commission can change the rate under certain circumstances. Should this happen, substantial increases in our electricity costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Current credit and financial market conditions could prevent or delay our current or future customers from obtaining financing necessary to purchase our products and services or finance their own operations or capacity expansions, which could adversely affect our business, our operating results and financial condition. Due to the recent severe tightening of credit and concerns regarding the availability of credit around the world, our solar customers may delay or attempt to delay their payments to us in connection with product and service purchases, or may be delayed in obtaining, or may not be able to obtain, necessary financing for their purchases of our products and services or their own operations or expansion plans. In addition, the current credit and financial market conditions may adversely affect the ability of our customers that have executed long-term supply agreements to purchase polysilicon from us to make additional required payments to us pursuant to these long-term supply agreements or to fund their own expansion plans. Delays of this nature could materially harm our polysilicon sales and PV installations, and therefore harm our business. Risks Associated With Government Regulation and Incentives. If we do not obtain on a timely basis the necessary government permits and approvals to construct and operate our planned polysilicon production plant, our construction costs could increase and our business could be harmed. We have received the air permit and storm water prevention permit that are necessary to begin construction of our polysilicon plant; however, we need to apply for additional permits with federal, state and local authorities, including building permits to continue the construction of our polysilicon plant, and permits to operate the plant when construction is complete. The government regulatory process is lengthy and unpredictable and delays could cause additional expense and increase our construction costs. In addition, we could be required to change our construction plans in order receive the required permits and such changes could also result in additional expense and delay. Any delay in completion of construction could result in us failing to meet our delivery deadlines under our supply agreements and give the other parties to these agreements the right to terminate the agreements. Our business and industry are subject to government regulation, which may harm our ability to market our products. The market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by foreign, federal, state and local government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as policies promulgated by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation. In the United States and in a number of other countries, these regulations and policies are being modified and may continue to be modified. Customer purchases of, or further investment in the research and development of, alternative energy sources, including solar power technology, could be deterred by these regulations and policies, which could result in a significant reduction in the potential demand for our PV system installations. For example, without a regulatory mandated exception for solar power systems, utility customers are often charged interconnection or standby fees for putting distributed power generation on the electric utility grid. These fees could increase the cost to our customers of installing PV systems and make them less desirable, thereby harming our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, our discussions with The James Campbell Company to plan and construct a Kapolei Sustainable Energy Park are conditioned upon receiving various government approvals related to the capped solid waste storage area on the site. The installation of PV systems is subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national and local ordinances relating to zoning, building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering and related matters. It is difficult to track the requirements of individual states and counties and to design equipment to comply with the varying standards. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to PV system installations may result in significant additional expenses to us and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our PV system installation services. 30 If government incentives to locate our planned polysilicon facility in the City of Pocatello, Idaho are not realized then the costs of establishing our facility may be higher than we currently estimate. The State of Idaho and the local municipal government have approved a variety of incentives to attract Hoku Materials, including tax incentives, financial support for infrastructure improvements around our facility, and grants to fund the training of new employees. In March 2007, we entered into a 99-year ground lease with the City of Pocatello, for approximately 67 acres of land in Pocatello, Idaho and in May 2007, we commenced construction of our polysilicon facility. In May 2007, the City of Pocatello approved an ordinance that authorized certain tax incentives related to the infrastructure necessary for the completion and operation of our planned polysilicon plant. In May 2009, we entered into an Economic Development Agreement, or the PDA Agreement, with the Pocatello Development Authority, or PDA, pursuant to which PDA agreed to reimburse to us amounts we actually incur in making certain infrastructure improvements consistent with the North Portneuf Urban Renewal Area and Revenue Allocation District Improvement Plan and the Idaho Urban Renewal Law, or the Infrastructure Reimbursement, and an additional amount as reimbursement for and based on the number of full time employee equivalents we create and maintain, or the Employment Reimbursement, at the production facility under construction in Pocatello, Idaho, or the Plant. The parties agreed that (a) the Infrastructure Reimbursement will be an amount that is equal to 95% of the tax increment payments PDA actually collects on the North Portneuf Tax Increment Financing District with respect to our real property and improvements located in such district, or the TIF Revenue, up to approximately $26 million, less the actual Road Costs, and (b) the Employment Reimbursement will be an amount that is equal to 50% of the TIF Revenue, up to approximately $17 million. However, there are no assurances that all or any part of the amount authorized will be paid to us, and we could ultimately receive significantly less or nothing at all, and we may not realize the benefits of these other offered incentives including workforce training funds and utility capacities. The tax incentives expire on December 31, 2030. If there are changes to the ordinance, which affects the amount of the incentives, or for other reasons, some of which may be beyond our control, we are unable to realize all or any part of these incentives, the operating costs of our planned polysilicon facility in Idaho may be higher than we currently estimate. The reduction or elimination of government and economic incentives for PV systems and related products could reduce the market opportunity for our PV installation services. We believe that the near-term growth of the market for on-grid applications, where solar power is used to supplement a customer’s electricity purchased from the utility network, depends in large part on the availability and size of government incentives. Because we plan to sell to the on-grid market, the reduction or elimination of government incentives may adversely affect the growth of this market or result in increased price competition, both of which adversely affect our ability to compete in this market. Currently, the U.S. federal solar tax credit is scheduled to expire at the end of calendar year 2016. If similar tax or other federal government incentives are not available beyond calendar year 2016, it could harm our PV system installation business. Today, the cost of solar power exceeds the cost of power furnished by the electric utility grid in many locations. As a result, federal, state and local government bodies in many countries, most notably Germany, Japan and the United States, have provided incentives in the form of rebates, tax credits and other incentives to end users, distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of solar power products to promote the use of solar energy in on-grid applications and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. These government economic incentives could be reduced or eliminated altogether. For example, Germany has been a strong supporter of solar power products and systems and political changes in Germany could result in significant reductions or eliminations of incentives, including the reduction of tariffs over time. Some solar program incentives expire, decline over time, are limited in total funding or require renewal of authority. Net metering policies in Japan could limit the amount of solar power installed there. Reductions in, or elimination or expiration of, governmental incentives could result in decreased demand for PV products, and reduce the size of the market for our planned PV system installation services and the demand for solar-grade polysilicon. Risks Associated With Our Common Stock and Charter Documents. Our stock price is volatile and purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. Our stock price is volatile. Between April 1, 2008 and March 31, 2009, our stock had low and high sales prices in the range of $1.90 to $10.25 per share. During fiscal year 2009, the stock market in general has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, including: • variations in our financial results or those of our competitors and our customers; • announcements by us, our competitors and our customers of acquisitions, new products, the acquisition or loss of significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; • the performance of the stock market generally and the over-all condition of the global macro economy; • failure to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors with respect to our financial results; • our ability to develop and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis; • litigation; 31 • changes in our management; • changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals; • future sales of our common stock by us and future sales of our common stock by our officers, directors and affiliates; • investors’ perceptions of us; and • general economic, industry and market conditions. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility and a decrease in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Class action litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Anti-takeover defenses that we have in place could prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to change our directors or management. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it more difficult for or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us without the approval of our Board of Directors. These provisions: • establish a classified Board of Directors, so that not all members of our Board of Directors may be elected at one time; • set limitations on the removal of directors; • limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and • provide our Board of Directors the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our management team and may deprive investors of the opportunity to sell their shares to potential acquirers at a premium over prevailing prices. This potential inability to obtain a control premium could reduce the price of our common stock. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Our Board of Directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, you will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have not paid cash dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date, and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The success of your investment in our common stock will depend entirely upon any future appreciation. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which you purchased your shares. We may issue stock or engage in a transaction that results in a change of control. In order to raise capital and/or manage our liquidity, we may issue stock or engage in a transaction that results in the acquisition of all or substantially all of our assets, or a change of control. Presently, no single stockholder owns shares of common stock representing a majority of the voting power of our common stock. If a person or group were to acquire a majority of the voting power of our common stock, such person or group would be able, over time, to elect all of the members of our board of directors and determine the outcome of all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including matters involving the acquisition or disposition of assets, the incurrence of indebtedness, the issuance of any additional shares of common stock or other equity securities and the payment of dividends on common stock. Such person or group would also have the power to prevent or cause a subsequent change in control, and could take other actions that might be desirable to such person or group, but not to other stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 32 