D. Risk Factors. We may suffer larger loan losses if defaults on loans by our customers increase as a result of weak economic conditions in Japan Weak economic conditions in Japan may lead to increased defaults on loans, including loans that we guarantee, which in turn would cause us to increase our charge-offs of loans and our provisions for loan losses, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations and financial condition. The current economic environment in Japan is showing improvements in corporate profitability and business confidence, especially with respect to major companies, and rises in the stock and real estate markets. These trends also led to continued improvements in employment and personal consumption. However, the Japanese economy still faces uncertainties such as inflation in prices for raw materials caused by the expansion of production activities, fiscal reconstruction, and potential changes to the social security system. If the economic situation in Japan worsens, we may be forced to charge off loans in excess of our existing provisions for loan losses, to increase our provisions for loan losses, to pay out on loans that we guarantee beyond our reserves for guarantee losses, or to tighten our credit screening policies, which would limit our acquisition of new customers. Any such event could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Increasing competition among Japan’s finance companies and other financial institutions may adversely affect our ability to increase or maintain the size of our loan portfolio, the average credit quality of our customers or the interest rates we charge on our loans The consumer and business owner finance industries in Japan’s financial sector are becoming increasingly competitive. Competition for customer acquisition may continue to intensify due to movements toward entry into this industry, which has included capital investments by major financial institutions, establishment of joint venture corporations, and acquisition of companies by corporations including information technology companies and foreign-affiliated financial institutions. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources, larger customer bases, longer histories, greater name recognition, more extensive physical infrastructure and networks of loan offices and more established relationships in the finance industry than we do. Our competitors seek to compete aggressively on the basis of interest rates, lending terms and the coverage and scale of their network of distribution and marketing channels. Under these competitive pressures, we have focused our efforts on acquisition of prime customers with low credit risk, especially among small and medium-sized businesses, including through alliances with various companies, in an effort to differentiate ourselves from competitors. In June 2004, we sold most of the outstanding balance of our consumer loans to a third party, and strategically shifted our loan portfolio toward provision of loans to small and medium-sized business owners, which usually bear lower interest rates. This has resulted in a decrease in the weighted period-end average contractual interest rate on our outstanding loans, from 24.0% at March 31, 2004, to 22.1% at March 31, 2005 and 16.1% at March 31, 2006. If we are unwilling or unable to match our competitors’ terms, we may fail to increase or maintain the number and average balance of our customer accounts, and our results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. To the extent that we reduce interest rates on our products in response to competitive pressures, our interest margins will decline. Furthermore, the average credit quality of our customers may decrease if we cannot sufficiently acquire prime customers, or if we lose these prime customers to our competitors, and our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. -8- Table of Contents Misconduct by an employee or director could harm us and is difficult to detect and deter Our employees and directors could engage in misconduct, which includes, among other things: • conduct that exceeds the authority given to the employee or director, such as approval of a transaction for which he or she does not have proper authorization; • concealment of such unauthorized conduct or authorized but unsuccessful activities that cause material harm to us; and • improper use or disclosure of confidential information or leakage of personal information. Any such misconduct by an employee or director could result in regulatory sanctions, legal liability and serious reputational or financial harm to us. We have not in the past suffered materially from misconduct by an employee or director. However, the precautions we take to prevent and detect such misconduct may not always deter or prevent it, even though we recognize compliance as the most significant challenge for management. Moreover, even if we succeed in managing the conduct of our own employees and directors, we may suffer reputationally or financially from misconduct by other lenders in the finance industry. This could lead to introduction of additional regulations or laws favoring borrowers that might erode our profitability, and therefore could affect our financial position and results of operations. Legislative or regulatory changes to the Interest Rate Restriction Law or other laws, as a result of court decisions or other factors, could adversely affect our business The Interest Rate Restriction Law provides that a loan with an interest rate exceeding a prescribed rate is invalid with respect to the portion exceeding the maximum rate. Prescribed rates are 20% per annum for loans of less than ¥100,000; 18% per annum for loans of ¥100,000 or more but less than ¥1 million; and 15% per annum for loans of ¥1 million or more. However, the [Contributions Law] permits a maximum interest rate of 29.2%. Interest rates for all of our products are set below the maximum lending rate under the Contributions Law; however, we may charge interest rates in excess of the prescribed rate under the Interest Rate Restriction Law (the “gray-zone interest rate”). The Moneylending Business Restriction Law provides that a payment by a borrower or guarantor of interest in excess of the rate prescribed by the Interest Rate Restriction Law to a registered moneylender is valid and non-refundable so long as the excess interest is paid without coercion, mistake or threat and documentation requirements are satisfied. However, as a result of a Supreme Court Decision, a portion of the Enforcement Regulation of the Moneylending Business Restriction Law was amended effective on July 1, 2006. These amendments primarily stipulate that loan documentation should specifically provide that the acceleration clause for non-payment of interest is valid only if the borrower fails to repay the interest portion within the maximum rate set forth in the Interest Rate Restriction Law. These amendments apply to all moneylenders. A strict interpretation of the Supreme Court decision could lead to further amendments to the terms of our loan agreements, which could reduce our effective interest rates or make it more difficult to collect on loans. Prior amendments to relevant laws require the Japanese government, which last reduced the statutory maximum interest rate (29.2% under the Contributions Law) in June 2000, to review the statutory maximum interest rate again in January 2007, and the issue is currently being discussed and considered by various advisory panels. Any such reduction or other legislative or regulatory changes could adversely affect our business and results of operations. -9- Table of Contents Any failure to maintain the confidentiality of personal information of our customers could adversely affect our results of operations We keep and manage sensitive personal information obtained from our customers. If we fail to maintain the confidentiality of personal information for any reason, our results of operations could be adversely affected in a number of ways. We could be subject to lawsuits for damages from our customers if they are injured as a result of the release of their personal information. Failure to maintain the confidentiality of personal information could subject us to penalty under the Law on Protection of Personal Information. We could incur additional expenses associated with changing our security systems, either voluntarily or in response to administrative guidance or other regulatory initiatives from the government, or in connection with public relations campaigns designed to prevent or mitigate damage to our corporate image or reputation. Any damage to our reputation could also adversely affect our ability to retain or acquire customers or to maintain or establish strategic alliances with third parties, or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We may have to constrain our business activities to avoid being deemed an investment company under the U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940 In general, a company which is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities, may be deemed to be an investment company under the U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940. We do not believe that we are an investment company as defined under the U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940. However, if we were to be deemed an investment company, we would be prohibited from issuing our securities in the United States and may have to terminate our U.S. listing or other sponsorship promoting a U.S. trading market for our issued securities. In order to avoid these prohibitions, we may be forced to forego otherwise attractive business opportunities, potentially limiting our growth and our profitability. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could adversely affect our results of operations We are subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act starting from the fiscal year ending March 31, 2007, and our chief executive officer and chief financial officer must include the following statements in each annual report under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act: • a statement of management’s responsibility for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Group; • a statement identifying the framework used by management to conduct the required evaluation of the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control over financial reporting; • management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the Group’s most recent fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not the Group’s internal control over financial reporting is effective; and • a statement that the registered public accounting firm that audit the financial statements included in the annual report has issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting. -10- Table of Contents We are in the midst of strengthening our corporate governance structure in order to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act while obtaining a wide range of advisory opinions from inside and outside experts regarding the approaches to corporate governance and risk management, and examined them from different perspectives. This has, however, required payment by us of fees to various parties as well as internal costs. These compliance costs are significant and may be in excess of amounts we anticipate, and as result could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. An increasing number of our customers seeking protection from creditors under the Bankruptcy Law or related laws could require us to increase our provisions for loan losses and charge-offs In recent years, the number of legal means with which retail borrowers can seek protection from creditors has increased. For instance, amendments to the Bankruptcy Law that became effective in January 2005 are aimed to achieve prompt, efficient, effective and fair procedures for, and to simplify the procedure for, and improve debtors’ protection under, personal bankruptcy. Under these amendments, an individual debtor can take advantage of a unified discharge procedure and a larger scope of assets may be retained by insolvent debtors. The new law also improved the effectiveness of the automatic stay, preference, offset and other practical provisions for fair treatment among creditors. We generally recover almost nothing under personal bankruptcy proceedings. This and other laws, including the Special Conciliation Law and the Civil Rehabilitation Law, may discourage borrowers who would otherwise make an effort to repay the entirety of their loans from doing so, if they perceive a relative ease of availing themselves of these legal means for discharge of their debts. As a result, the number of our customers who seek legal protection from enforcement of terms of payment or adjournment of payment may increase. If, as a result, the number of delinquent loans increases, we may be required to increase our provisions for loan losses and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Any further amendment to the Bankruptcy Law or related laws that increases protection of the assets of individual debtors and reduces the burden of declaring personal bankruptcy would also have a materially adverse impact on our results of operations. Any future inability to obtain funds from lenders or access the debt capital markets on favorable terms could impair our ability to extend loans to borrowers, reduce our competitiveness and the profitability of our lending and adversely affect our financial condition Ready access to funds on favorable terms is essential to our business. The difference between the interest rates we charge our customers and the interest rates we pay to our financing sources is the key factor impacting our profitability. As of March 31, 2006, our weighted period-end average contractual interest rate on outstanding loans in our loan portfolio was 16.1%, while our weighted period-end average contractual interest rate was 1.0% for our short-term borrowings and 1.4% for our long-term borrowings. We raise funds through loans from financial institutions and the capital markets by issuing debt securities. As of March 31, 2006, the aggregate amount of our borrowings was ¥259,335 million, which represented approximately 98.6% of our total loans outstanding and purchased loans as of the same date. As of March 31, 2006, 76.7% of our borrowings, or ¥198,924 million, are long-term borrowings, 68.9% of our borrowings, or ¥178,565 million, came from loans from banks, non-banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions, 22.7% of our borrowings, or ¥58,972 million, came from issuances of corporate bonds, including convertible bonds, and commercial paper, and 8.4% of our borrowings, or ¥21,798 million, came from other sources, including securitization of certain of our loan receivables. Based on their evaluations of our long-term or short-term financial prospects, any of these lenders could cease to finance our business or to offer funds on favorable terms. A downgrade in our credit ratings or those of similar companies or Japanese companies generally, for instance, could result in an increase in the interest rates that lenders charge us. For example, the downgrade of our debt rating by the Japan Credit Rating Agency in April 2003, has led us to curtail our debt issuances and increase our reliance on bank loans which typically bear higher interest rates. Negative publicity about small business or consumer finance lenders such as that seen in 1999 about the practices of small business lenders could also make lenders reluctant to extend credit to companies in our industry, including us. -11- Table of Contents Moreover, although contractual borrowing interest rates are subject to fluctuation due to the market environment and other factors, the contractual lending interest rate in our loan business is restricted to 29.2% as stipulated by the Contributions Law. Therefore, in order to minimize our interest fluctuation risk, we are pursuing financing with fixed interest rates for borrowings from financial institutions and issuances of corporate bonds. As of March 31, 2006, our fixed rate borrowings, including those fixed through hedging from derivative transactions, comprised 61.4%, and our variable rate borrowings comprised 38.6%, of our total borrowings. We do not have any difficulty in accessing funds required at present. However, as a result of the ongoing restructuring of the Japanese financial sector, and of regional banks in particular, our lenders may fail or adopt lending policies unfavorable to us. A number of other factors largely beyond our control could impair our ability to borrow, including severe disruptions of the financial markets, negative views about the prospects for the finance industry generally or further downgrades of Japan’s sovereign debt ratings. Any impact from these factors that worsen our capital procurement environment significantly beyond our expectations could increase our interest expenses. An inability to obtain sufficient funds from lenders or capital markets on favorable terms or at all could impair our ability to extend loans to borrowers, reduce our competitiveness and the profitability of our lending. Any or all of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. An increase in prevailing market interest rates would increase our interest expense and thus could reduce the margins we receive on our loans to our borrowers Interest rates in Japan have been extremely low for several years, reflecting government monetary policy including the “zero interest rate” policy of the Bank of Japan, which had been in place for most of the period since February 1999 until it was ended in July 2006. Also, the official discount rate offered by the Bank of Japan has remained at 0.1% since September 2001 until it was increased to 0.4% in July 2006. Partly as a result of this policy, our weighted period-end average contractual interest rates on our own borrowings have been extremely low in recent years: 1.3% as of March 31, 2004, 1.2% as of March 31, 2005 and 1.0% as of March 31, 2006 for our short-term borrowings and 2.3% as of March 31, 2004, 1.9% as of March 31, 2005 and 1.4% as of March 31, 2006 for our long-term borrowings. As a result of a recent change in policy by the Bank of Japan, short term interest rates have recently risen in Japan and may continue to do so. Consequently, our lenders may increase interest rates on their loans to us and we may not be able to pass our increased interest expenses to our customers in the form of higher rates on our loans due to competitive considerations and to the legal limit on interest rates that we may charge. In addition, the maximum interest rates that we may charge to our customers may decline when the Japanese government reviews the legal limit in January 2007. See “Regulation — The Money Lending Business Restriction Law, Contributions Law and Interest Rate Restriction Law — Restrictions on Usury” in Item 4.B of this annual report on Form 20-F for a further discussion of the legal limit. Any increase in the interest rates our lenders charge us could thus have an adverse effect on our operating margins and profitability. -12- Table of Contents Any disruption, outages, delays or other difficulties experienced by our information or technological systems and networks could adversely affect our business We increasingly rely on internal and external information and technological systems and networks to generate new business, provide services to customers and manage our operations. In particular, our business depends on: • the ability of our automated fund transfer system to handle high volumes of phone calls and to provide customers with a convenient system which offers reliable privacy protection; • the reliability and security of third-party databases from which we obtain credit information about our customers; • the reliability of Sanyo Electric Credit’s wire transfer service which we use to disburse loans to accounts designated by our customers; and • the reliability of the financial institutions that hold our customers’ accounts from which we automatically transfer their payments to us. In addition, we outsource the following hardware and software responsibilities, in order to manage our operating transaction and accounting data, confidential customer information and other back-office data operations: • our main computer housed in an NEC affiliate’s data center, to which all data are backed up each business day; • dedicated lines that connect our main computer and outsourcing center to our application servers and e-mail servers; and • maintenance and support work for our main computer. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, natural disasters, power loss, computer hackers, computer viruses and similar events or the loss of support services from third parties such as our systems solution providers including NEC and its affiliates, telephone carriers and Internet backbone providers. Any disruption, outages, or delays or other difficulties experienced by any of these technological and information systems and networks could affect our financial position and results of operations. Our chairman and his family may exercise influence over important business decisions in a way that conflicts with your interest As a result of the direct and indirect ownership or control of our outstanding shares by Sakioka family members, who collectively beneficially owned 37.4% of our outstanding shares as of March 31, 2006, our chairman and his family members can exercise a controlling influence over important decisions affecting our business and affairs. These decisions may involve significant corporate transactions such as the sale of our company, corporate restructuring, investment in other businesses or assets, or the terms of future financings. The interests of these shareholders in these and other matters may differ from those of our public shareholders. -13- Table of Contents A sale of our shares held by our major shareholders, including our chairman or members of their family, may adversely affect our share price As of March 31, 2006, our chairman, members of their immediate family and corporations controlled by them together owned 37.4% of our outstanding shares. A disposal of any portion of their holdings on the Tokyo Stock Exchange or otherwise will increase the supply of our shares in the marketplace and may adversely affect the market price of our shares and American Depositary Shares. We may change our portfolio of products and services from time to time but fail to achieve the intended results While we traditionally were a finance company that specialized in unsecured lending to individuals in Japan, we intend to review our portfolio of products and services on an ongoing basis and change them as appropriate to remain competitive in the markets that we serve. For example, in response to the diversified needs of small and medium-sized businesses and consumers, as well as to maximize our corporate value, in June 2004, we sold most of the outstanding balance of our unguaranteed consumer loans to Orient Credit, a consumer finance company, in order to concentrate our resources on providing loans with guarantors, such as small business owner loans, and otherwise serving small and medium-sized business owners. With respect to financial services for small and medium-sized business owners, in addition to extending small business owner loans and Business Timely loans, which are unguaranteed, unsecured loans made under pre-approved revolving credit lines to small business owners, we also concentrate on the provision of leases and installment loans, and real estate finance. With respect to the quality of operating assets, we seek to accumulate prime assets with lower credit risks through acquisition of prime customers through the promotion of our alliance strategy. We have also begun investment banking, securities and venture capital operations, which expose us to various risks. Changes in our portfolio of products or services, including those described above, may fail to generate the results we desire and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. For example, deterioration of the quality of our operating assets due to deterioration in the financial condition of small and medium-sized businesses caused by rapid changes in the economic environment and other factors could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. The fair value of our strategic investments could decline due to a deterioration of the economic environment and adversely affect our financial position We invest in various companies which we believe will improve our ability to provide integrated financial services and expand our business network. As of March 31, 2006, the cost of our investment securities was ¥33,099 million and the fair value of these investments was ¥42,071 million, or 11.7% of our consolidated total assets. However, in the future, if the stock prices of these companies decline significantly, or the financial condition of our investments worsen due to deterioration of the economic environment, we could suffer impairment losses on these securities or our shareholders’ equity ratio could decline due to fluctuation in unrealized profits in investment securities, which could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. -14- Table of Contents The strategic alliances, joint ventures and strategic investments which we’ve entered into in order to acquire new customers may not yield attractive returns and could produce losses We have been pursuing various strategic alliances and joint ventures with consumer finance and other financial companies, which include arrangements to receive customer referrals and to provide guarantees to the borrowings of the customers of third parties. We have also in recent years increased our investments in companies that have the potential to complement our business strategically. The book carrying value of these strategic investments was ¥1,876 million as of March 31, 2004, ¥20,890 million as of March 31, 2005 and ¥28,674 million as of March 31, 2006. We expect to continue seeking strategic alliances, joint ventures and strategic investments to build our customer base and establish a solid profit base for our group, but may not be able to successfully grow or maintain profits. These strategic alliances, joint ventures and strategic investments may not achieve profitability and we may incur impairment losses as a result of failing to recover any investments or expenditures. Moreover, strategic alliances, joint ventures and strategic investments that aim at specific markets may attract our existing customers, rather than expand our customer base, and reduce the profitability of our core business. The success of our real estate-related businesses are highly dependant on the health of the Japanese economy and are susceptible to regulatory and legal changes. Recently, our secured loans portfolio has grown significantly, reflecting our strategic shift toward promotion of financial services to small and medium-sized business owners centering on real estate financing, through active sales and marketing efforts by our Real Estate Finance Department, which was established in February 2004. Proceeds from these loans are primarily used by our customers as working capital for property development. The health of the real estate market in Japan is closely tied to larger economic trends. Thus, the value of real estate pledged to us by our customers could decline in connection with deteriorating Japanese economic conditions, exposing us to significant unsecured risks. Because our secured bans to property developers are generally used as working capital for property development, we are also exposed to the risk that our customers may not complete development projects in a timely manner or at all, or that the completed property will not have the value we anticipated, resulting in less collatral than we expected. Our property development loans are generally for long terms and very large principal amounts. This has increased our long-term funding requirements, which we may not be successful in meeting or accurately evaluating. This could constrain our ability to make new loans. Environmental liabilities unknown at the time we made loans could also impair the value of properties securing our loans. In addition, in the event taxation regimes concerning our real estate-related businesses, including land taxation, are amended, our costs at acquisition and sale of real estate may increase, and could adversely affect our real estate businesses. Moreover, tightening of regulations, such as the Building Standard Law, the City Planning Law, and other real estate-related regulations, as a result of recent construction scandals in Japan, including the falsification of earthquake-resistance data for building designs, is expected. Any amendments to these regulation, could impose new obligations on our businesses, increase our costs, and adversely affect our businesses. Any or all of the above factors could result in material diverse affects to our business, financial condition or results of operations. Increasing competition in the loan servicing market in which Nissin Servicer operates could reduce our profitability. Our subsidiary, Nissin Servicer Co., Ltd., mainly purchases specific money claims from financial institutions by invited tender. The increase in the number of companies entering this market, together with the contraction in liquidity in the market for bad debts due to the trend towards economic recovery, has lead to increasingly severe competition. In response to these factors, we have revised pricing standards through classification of specific money claims into categories, and by improving due diligence, we seek to maintain our competitiveness in the purchase of specific money claims. This, together with the development of new areas of business such as liquidation of assets, securitization, and corporate revitalization, we believe has allowed us to maintain competitiveness in the current business environment. However, if we are unable to maintain competitiveness in the purchase of specific money claims, or if there are rapid increases in purchase prices or falls in commission fees, we may be unable to purchase these loans at favorable prices or at all, and our loan servicing business may have decreased profitability or losses, which could significantly affect our business strategies and results of operations. -15- Table of Contents Our business in China is subject to extensive Chinese government regulation that changes frequently, and these regulations could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our subsidiary, Nissin Leasing, operates leasing and other businesses in China. The Chinese government has broad discretion and authority to regulate the leasing, non-bank finance and other industries in China. The Chinese government exercises significant control over financial and other markets, as well as China’s economic growth, through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting of monetary policy and provision of preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Existing regulations or government action in China may constrain our operations, and new regulations, the readjustment of previously implemented regulations or other government action could require us to change our business operations in China, increase our costs, prevent us from repatriating profits to Japan, or limit our ability to finance or conduct activities in China. In addition, China’s commercial legal system is still under development, and even where adequate law exists in China, enforcement of laws or contracts may be uncertain and sporadic. The relative inexperience of China’s judiciary creates additional uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation, and interpretation of statutes and regulations may be subject to government policies reflecting domestic political changes. Our activities in China are subject to administrative review and approval by various national and local agencies of China’s government. Because of the changes occurring in China’s legal and regulatory structure, we may not be able to secure requisite governmental approval for our activities, or approvals we have received, such as the leasing license obtained by Nissin Leasing, may be suspended or revoked. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Because we expect our shares and ADSs will be treated as stock of a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, you may be subject to materially adverse tax consequences As we expect that 50% or more of our gross asset value constitutes “passive assets,” generally meaning assets not constituting part of an active trade or business under U.S. federal tax rules, we expect that our shares and ADSs will be treated as stock of a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. U.S. persons who hold our shares or ADSs, either directly or indirectly, may be subject to materially adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences upon the sale or disposition of the shares or ADSs and upon distributions with respect to the shares or ADSs to the extent the distributions are “excess distributions,” distributions in excess of a normal rate of distribution as calculated for passive foreign investment companies. Gain realized on the sale or other disposition of shares or ADSs would in general be taxed as ordinary income. If you are a U.S. holder, you would be treated as if you had realized such gain and certain “excess distributions” ratably over your holding period for the shares or ADSs and the income allocated to such prior tax years would be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for each such year to which the gain was allocated, together with an interest charge in respect of the tax attributable to each such year. In addition, dividends that you receive from us will not be eligible for the 15% tax rate applicable to qualified dividend income if we are a PFIC either in the taxable year of the distribution or the preceding taxable year. See “United States Tax Considerations — Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules” in Item 10.E of this annual report on Form 20-F. Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and have to act through the depositary to exercise those rights The rights of shareholders under Japanese law to take actions including voting their shares, receiving dividends and distributions, bringing derivative actions, examining our accounting books and records and exercising appraisal rights are available only to holders of record on our register of shareholders or our register of beneficial shareholders. Because the depositary, through its custodian agents, is the registered holder of the shares underlying the ADSs, an ADS holder cannot take these actions except through and to the extent permitted by the depositary. If we instruct the depository to provide ADS holders with the opportunity to vote in a timely manner, the depositary will make efforts to vote the shares underlying your ADSs as instructed by you. ADS holders, however, may not be provided with such rights on a timely basis or at all. If you hold fewer than 100 shares, you do not have the right to vote the shares or transfer them and if you have ADSs representing fewer than 100 shares, you cannot withdraw the shares underlying the ADSs and cannot require us to purchase the underlying shares One hundred of our shares constitute one “unit.” A holder who owns fewer than 100 shares owns less than a whole unit. The Japanese Corporate Law restricts the rights of a shareholder who holds shares of less than a whole unit. In general, holders of shares constituting less than a unit do not have the right to vote under the unit share system. Our articles of incorporation also provide that no share certificates will be issued with respect to any number of shares constituting less than one unit. As the transfer of shares normally requires delivery of share certificates, any fraction of a unit for which no share certificates are issued is non-transferable. Furthermore, under the unit share system, holders of shares constituting less than a unit have the right to require us to purchase their shares. However, holders of ADSs that represent other than multiples of whole units cannot withdraw the underlying shares representing less than one unit and, therefore, they will be unable to exercise the right to require us to purchase the underlying shares. As a result, holders of ADSs representing shares in lots of less than one unit will not have access to the Japanese markets to sell their shares through the withdrawal mechanism. See “Limitations Affecting Security Holders — Japanese Unit Share System” in Item 10.B of this annual report on Form 20-F. -16- Table of Contents 