Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to factors discussed in the description of our business and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following are risk factors that could adversely affect our future results of operations and our financial condition. Continued and Prolonged Deterioration in the Housing Sector and Related Markets and the Economy May Adversely Affect Our Business and Financial Results Throughout the course of 2008, economic conditions continued to worsen, due in large part to the fallout from the collapse of the sub-prime mortgage market. While we did not invest in sub-prime mortgages and related investments, our lending business is tied, in large part, to the housing market. Declines in home prices, increases in foreclosures and unemployment have adversely impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans, resulting in the write-down of asset values. The continuing housing slump has resulted in reduced demand for the construction of new housing, further declines in home prices, and increased delinquencies on construction, residential and commercial mortgage loans. The ongoing concern about the stability of the financial markets in general has caused many lenders to reduce or cease providing funding to borrowers. These conditions may also cause a further reduction in loan demand, and increases in our non-performing assets, net charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. We do not expect improvement in financial market conditions in the near future. A worsening of these negative economic conditions could adversely impact our prospects for growth, asset and goodwill valuations and could result in a decrease in our interest income and a material increase in our provision for loan losses. Our Commercial Real Estate, Multi-Family, and Commercial Loans Expose Us to Increased Lending Risks Our strategy continues to be to increase our commercial mortgage loans, commercial loans and, to a lesser extent, construction loans. These loans are generally regarded as having a higher risk of default and loss than single-family residential mortgage loans, because repayment of these loans often depends on the successful 34 Table of Contents operation of a business or of the underlying property. In addition, our construction loans, commercial mortgage loans and commercial loans have significantly larger average loan balances compared to our single-family residential mortgage loans. At December 31, 2008, the average loan size for a commercial mortgage loan was $1.8 million, for a commercial loan was $298,000, and for a construction loan was $2.7 million, compared to an average loan size of $208,000 for a single-family residential mortgage loan. Also, many of our borrowers of these types of loans have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, any adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to one single-family residential mortgage loan. Our Continuing Concentration of Loans in Our Primary Market Area May Increase Our Risk Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in northern and central New Jersey. Unlike some larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers primarily in northern and central New Jersey. The local economic conditions in northern and central New Jersey, including the significant job losses related to Wall Street, have a significant impact on our construction loans, commercial mortgage loans, commercial loans, and residential mortgage loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A continuing significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control would impact these local economic conditions and could negatively affect the financial results of our banking operations. Additionally, because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, further declines in real estate values and the continued slump in real estate sales may also have a negative effect on the ability of many of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings and overall financial condition. We target our business development and marketing strategy for loans to serve primarily the banking and financial services needs of small- to medium-sized businesses in northern and central New Jersey. These small- to medium-sized businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions negatively impact these businesses, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. If Our Allowance for Loan Losses is Not Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan Losses, Our Earnings Could Decrease Our borrowers may not repay their loans according to the terms of the loans, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. We may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. Material additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. Our emphasis on the continued diversification of our loan portfolio through the origination of commercial mortgage loans, commercial loans, and construction loans has been one of the more significant factors we have taken into account in evaluating our allowance for loan losses and provision for loan losses. In the event we were to further increase the amount of such types of loans in our portfolio, we may decide to make additional or increased provisions for loans losses, which could adversely affect our earnings. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 35 Table of Contents We Hold Certain Intangible Assets That Could Be Classified As Impaired In the Future. If These Assets Are Considered to Be Either Partially or Fully Impaired In The Future, Our Earnings Could Decline. We record all assets and liabilities acquired by the Company in purchase acquisitions, including goodwill and other intangible assets, at fair value, as required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 141. At December 31, 2008, goodwill totaling $498.8 million is not amortized but is subject to impairment tests at least annually, or more often if events or circumstances indicate it may be impaired. Other intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are subject to impairment tests if events or circumstances indicate a potential inability to realize the carrying amount. The initial recording and subsequent impairment testing of goodwill and other intangible assets requires subjective judgments about the estimates of the fair value of assets acquired. These fair value measurements are subject to the provisions of SFAS No. 157 which we adopted on January 1, 2008. The goodwill impairment test is performed in two steps. The first step compares the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is considered not impaired. However, if the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an additional test must be performed. The second step test compares the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. An impairment loss would be recorded to the extent that the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied value. Fair value may be determined using market prices, comparison to similar assets, market multiples, discounted cash flow analysis and other factors. Estimated cash flows may extend far into the future and by their nature are difficult to determine over an extended time frame. Factors that may significantly affect the estimates include specific industry or market sector conditions, changes in revenue growth trends, customer behavior, competitive forces, cost structures and changes in discount rates. We performed impairment tests at September 30, 2008 and December 31, 2008 and the results of both analyses indicated no goodwill impairment. Subsequent to the year-end testing, there has been a significant decline in the stock market, the financial sector of the market and of the market price of our common stock. It is possible that our future impairment testing could result in an impairment of the value of goodwill or core deposit intangible assets, or both. If we determine impairment exists at a given point in time, our earnings and the book value of the related intangible asset(s) will be reduced by the amount of the impairment. In any event, the results of impairment testing on goodwill and core deposit intangible assets have no impact on our tangible book value or regulatory capital levels. Continued or Further Declines in the Value of Certain Investment Securities Could Require Write-Downs, Which Would Reduce Our Earnings Our securities portfolio includes securities that have declined in value due to negative perceptions about the health of the financial sector in general and the lack of liquidity for securities that are real estate related. These securities include private label mortgage-backed securities and the common stock of local community banks. A prolonged decline in the value of these securities could result in an other-than-temporary impairment write-down which would reduce our earnings. Recent Legislative and Regulatory Initiatives May Not Stabilize the Banking System The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be more active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Actions taken to date, as well as potential actions, may not have the beneficial effects that are intended, particularly with respect to the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. In addition, new laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes will increase our Federal Deposit 36 Table of Contents Insurance Corporation insurance premiums and may also increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operations. New laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes, along with negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Our Expenses Will Increase As A Result Of Increases In FDIC Insurance Premiums The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) imposes an assessment against financial institutions for deposit insurance. This assessment is based on the risk category of the institution and currently ranges from 5 to 43 basis points of the institution’s deposits. Federal law requires that the designated reserve ratio for the deposit insurance fund be established by the FDIC at 1.15% to 1.50% of estimated insured deposits. If this reserve ratio drops below 1.15% or the FDIC expects that it will do so within six months, the FDIC must, within 90 days, establish and implement a plan to restore the designated reserve ratio to 1.15% of estimated insured deposits within five years (absent extraordinary circumstances). Recent bank failures coupled with deteriorating economic conditions have significantly reduced the deposit insurance fund’s reserve ratio. As of June 30, 2008, the designated reserve ratio was 1.01% of estimated insured deposits at March 31, 2008. As a result of this reduced reserve ratio, on December 22, 2008, the FDIC published a final rule raising the current deposit insurance assessment rates uniformly for all institutions by seven basis points (to a range from 12 to 50 basis points) for the first quarter of 2009. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule under which banks in the best risk category will pay initial base rates ranging from 12 to 16 cents per $100 on an annual basis, beginning on April 1, 2009. The FDIC also adopted an interim rule imposing a 20 basis point emergency special assessment on the industry on June 30, 2009. The assessment is to be collected on September 30, 2009. The cost of this emergency special assessment to us will be approximately $5.1 million. The interim rule would also permit the FDIC to impose an emergency special assessment after June 30, 2009, of up to 10 basis points if necessary to maintain public confidence in federal deposit insurance. In addition, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”) temporarily increased the limit on FDIC insurance coverage for deposits to $250,000 through December 31, 2009, and the FDIC took action to provide coverage for newly-issued senior unsecured debt and non-interest bearing transaction accounts in excess of the $250,000 limit, for which institutions will be assessed additional premiums. These actions will significantly increase our non-interest expense in 2009 and in future years as long as the increased premiums are in place. Changes in Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition Our results of operations and financial condition are significantly affected by changes in interest rates. Our results of operations are affected substantially by our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in interest rates could have an adverse affect on net interest income because, as a general matter, our interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, an increase in interest rates generally would result in a decrease in our average interest rate spread and net interest income, which would have a negative effect on our profitability. In the event of a 200 basis point increase in interest rates, whereby rates ramp up evenly over a twelve-month period, and assuming management took no actions to mitigate the effect of such change, we are projecting that our net interest income would decrease 1.9% or $3.5 million. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest-earning assets, and in particular our securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2008, our available for sale securities portfolio totaled $820.3 million. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates therefore could have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. 37 Table of Contents We are also subject to prepayment and reinvestment risk related to interest rate movements. Changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans or securities. We Operate in a Highly Regulated Environment and May be Adversely Affected by Changes in Laws and Regulations We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance, our chartering authority, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of our deposits. As a bank holding company, Provident Financial Services, Inc. is subject to regulation and oversight by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which a bank and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, could have a material impact on The Provident Bank, Provident Financial Services, Inc., and our operations. If Our Investment in the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York is Classified as Other-Than-Temporarily Impaired or as Permanently Impaired, Our Earnings and Stockholders’ Equity Could Decrease We own common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York (“FHLB-NY”). We hold the FHLB-NY common stock to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the FHLB-NY’s advance program. The aggregate cost and fair value of our FHLB-NY common stock as of December 31, 2008 was $42.8 million based on its par value. There is no market for our FHLB-NY common stock. Recent published reports indicate that certain member banks of the Federal Home Loan Bank System may be subject to accounting rules and asset quality risks that could result in materially lower regulatory capital levels. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of a Federal Home Loan Bank, including the FHLB-NY, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, we believe that there is a risk that our investment in FHLB-NY common stock could be deemed other-than-temporarily impaired at some time in the future, and if this occurs, it would cause our earnings and stockholders’ equity to decrease by the after-tax amount of the impairment charge. Strong Competition Within Our Market Area May Limit Our Growth and Profitability Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. In particular, over the past decade, New Jersey has experienced the effects of substantial banking consolidation, and large out-of-state competitors have grown significantly. There are also a number of strong locally-based competitors in our market. Many of these competitors (whether regional or national institutions) have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do, and may offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area. Lack of Consumer Confidence in Financial Institutions May Decrease Our Level of Deposits Our level of deposits may be affected by lack of consumer confidence in financial institutions, which has caused fewer depositors to be willing to maintain deposits that are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. That may cause depositors to withdraw deposits and place them in other institutions or to invest uninsured funds in investments perceived as being more secure, such as securities issued by the United States Treasury. These consumer preferences may cause us to be forced to pay higher interest rates to retain deposits and may constrain liquidity as we seek to meet funding needs caused by reduced deposit levels. 38 Table of Contents Future Legislative or Regulatory Actions Responding to Perceived Financial and Market Problems Could Impair Our Rights Against Delinquent Borrowers. There have been legislative and regulatory proposals made that would reduce the amount distressed borrowers may otherwise be contractually obligated to pay under their mortgage loans and limit an institution’s ability to foreclose on mortgage collateral. Were proposals such as these, or other proposals limiting our rights as a creditor, to be implemented, we could experience increased credit losses or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved comments from the staff of the SEC to report. 