ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We will need to secure additional financing in the future; and if we are unable to secure adequate funds on terms acceptable to us, or at all, we will be unable to complete construction of our Polysilicon Plant and build our polysilicon business. As of March 31, 2011, we had cash and cash equivalents on hand of $18.4 million and current liabilities of $53.0 million. Cash used in operations was approximately $9.6 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011. Our planned entry into the polysilicon market will require us to spend significant sums to support the construction of the Polysilicon Plant, purchase capital equipment, fund new sales and marketing efforts, pay for additional operating costs and significantly increase our headcount. As a result, we expect our costs to increase significantly, which will result in further losses before we can begin to generate significant operating revenue from our Hoku Materials division. We will need additional financing to complete the construction of the Polysilicon Plant, and should there be delays in securing additional financing, we will need to implement cost and expense reduction programs and other programs to generate cash that are not currently planned, but are responsive to our liquidity requirements. Reduction of expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to secure additional financing or structure credit terms with our vendors that are favorable to us, based on the current level of capital available to us, we may need to curtail construction of the Polysilicon Plant. If we elect to curtail construction, we would not be able to produce our own polysilicon to meet the delivery requirements under certain or our polysilicon supply agreements. In order to avoid breaching these contracts we anticipated needing to purchase polysilicon from third parties for delivery in June 2011 under certain of our polysilicon supply agreements unless we were able to successfully negotiate amendments to these agreements. 17 Since the beginning of fiscal year 2011, we have entered into 14 bank credit agreements that provided us an aggregate of $234 million to fund our operations. For a description of these credit agreements, see table under “Business—Hoku Materials—Financing Update—Overview.” We are also expecting an additional $8.2 million in customer prepayments from our existing customers. We will need additional capital to complete the construction of the Polysilicon Plant, and we plan on raising this money through one or more subsequent debt and/or equity offerings and possibly prepayments from new customer contracts. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain equity or debt financing in time to enable us to meet our current construction schedule, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We currently expect to complete the construction of the 2,500 metric ton per year plant, or Phase I, through the use of our available cash, the loan proceeds we received from credit agreements, and through additional debt supported by our majority stockholder, Tianwei. Tianwei has agreed to assist us in obtaining additional financing for any additional construction costs necessary to complete Phase I, for working capital needs and to purchase polysilicon from third parties to meet our upcoming commitments, in return for fair compensation. As previously disclosed, we have been discussing with Tianwei what would constitute fair compensation for Tianwei for the financial services it has been providing and will provide us. While the discussions are on-going, we expect to finalize the type of compensation and amount during the fiscal year 2012. We also believe this compensation may be in the form of common stock warrants. To the extent common stock warrants are issued to Tianwei for its financial services it may significantly dilute the ownership of its stockholders other than Tianwei. In addition, the issuance of fair compensation for providing the letters of credit to secure our loans could result in issuance costs and increase the amount of interest that we recognize. We cannot be certain that we will reach an agreement with Tianwei regarding the appropriate compensation for Tianwei which could affect Tianwei's willingness to continue to assist us in obtaining necessary additional financing. If we are unable to renegotiate amendments to our supply agreements or if any of our supply agreements is terminated for any reason, our business will be materially harmed. Pursuant to our existing supply agreements with Suntech, Hanwha SolarOne, Jinko, Tianwei, Solargiga and Alex, as of March 31, 2011, we have received prepayments for future product deliveries of $2.0 million, $49.0 million, $20.0 million, $29.0 million, $20.2 million, and $20.0 million, respectively, for an aggregate amount of $140.2 million. In addition, our customers have agreed to make additional prepayments of $8.2 million in conjunction with polysilicon deliveries. Our supply agreements contain production and delivery milestones that, if not met, allow the counterparty to these agreements and require us to refund any prepayments received under such agreements. We were obligated to commence delivery of polysilicon to our customers beginning in June 2011 under these agreements. However, we did not make shipments to our customers within the timeline required under these supply agreements, and we are in discussion with them to amend the supply agreements to extend the delivery dates or change other terms in order avoid a breach of the supply agreements. We have been advised by certain customers that if we fail to deliver polysilicon in accordance with our supply agreements, which may include third-party polysilicon, they intend to terminate the supply agreement and seek a refund of their prepayment. There are no assurances that we will be successful in renegotiating amendments to any of the supply agreements, and failure to do so would result in the termination of the agreement, which will materially harm our business. To the extent any supply agreement is terminated for any reason, we will not receive any further prepayments from the counterparty. In some circumstances we will be required to refund prepayments received under any terminated amended supply agreement and will not receive promised additional prepayments, and consequently we will need to secure new funds to cover the refund obligation and to provide adequate financing for the completion of the construction of our Polysilicon Plant. Securing new funds may delay the anticipated timing of completion of the Polysilicon Plant, which delay may result in us failing to meet our delivery requirements under our other supply agreements. We may not be able to secure new funds on terms as favorable to us as those under the amended supply agreements, or at all. If we are unable to secure new funds, we will not be able to complete construction of the Polysilicon Plant, our business will be materially harmed and we may be forced to delay, alter or abandon our planned business operations. Furthermore, pursuant to these supply agreements, we granted our customers a security interest in all of our tangible and intangible assets related to our polysilicon business to serve as collateral for our obligations under the related supply agreements. Accordingly, if we are unable to renegotiate amendments to avoid a breach of the supply agreements, our customers may seek to recover their losses by sales or foreclosure of substantially all of our assets, which could force us to cease operations. Under the supply agreement with Hanwha SolarOne, or SolarOne, formerly known as Solarfun Power Hong Kong Limited, a subsidiary of Solarfun Power Holdings Co., Ltd., if we fail to commence the delivery of polysilicon by June 30, 2011, SolarOne will have the right to terminate our supply agreement with SolarOne, in which event Hoku Materials would be obligated to repay SolarOne’s prepayments under the supply agreement. We did not make any shipments to SolarOne by June 30, 2011, and we are in discussions with SolarOne regarding a possible amendment of the agreement (see further discussion on SolarOne contract below). There can be no assurance that we will succeed in negotiating an amendment with SolarOne. If SolarOne terminates our supply agreement, it could be viewed as an event of default in connection under each of the credit agreements described above. If we are determined to be in default, our lenders will have the right to declare the outstanding principal and unpaid interest thereon due and payable. In addition, we are in discussions with our other customers, including Wuxi Suntech Power Co., Ltd., Tianwei New Energy (Chengdu) Wafer Co., Ltd., regarding the extension of delivery dates beginning in June 2011 in our supply agreements. Under the terms of all of our supply agreements, the failure to deliver polysilicon by the stated delivery dates will allow the customers to terminate the supply agreements, require the repayments of the deposits under the agreements, which in the aggregate amount to $140 million, which in turn could in an event of default under our existing credit agreements with our third party lenders. The event of default under our existing credit agreements could result in our lenders accelerating repayment of our third party debt, which we do not have the wherewithal to repay. The third party credit agreements are all secured by standby letters of credit drawn by our majority shareholder, Tianwei, as collateral. To the extent that the third prty lenders accelerate repayment of the debt, Tianwei has provided a letter of commitment to us that it would not demand repayment from us until the original due dates of the third party credit agreements ranging from May 2012 through June 2016. 18 Even if we are able to amend these supply agreements, it could result in new terms and conditions that increase our obligations or reduce the economic benefit of the supply agreement to us. For example, such amendment could result in a reduction in the purchase price, a refund of some or all of the prepayments we have received to date, adjustments in the volume allocated to each customer, the forfeiture of future prepayments owed to us, the issuance of equity or debt securities to compensate our customers for the delayed shipments, or any combination of the foregoing, which could materially harm our financial condition and results of operations. We will be required to procure third party polysilicon to meet our contractual delivery requirements beginning in August 2011. If we are unable to secure adequate quantities of solar-grade polysilicon on favorable terms and at the times needed, our business will be materially harmed. Due to the delays in financing, the required curtailment of construction of the Polysilicon Plant, and the inability to meet our initial delivery of polysilicon to our customers beginning in August 2011 under existing agreements, we may be required to procure third party polysilicon to meet our contractual delivery requirements. There are no assurances that we will be able to secure solar-grade polysilicon at the time and in the amounts needed on favorable terms. As we will be required to procure third party polysilicon in the open market, our cost to purchase polysilicon could be in excess of our contractual sales prices or could result in no profit or a loss. If we are unable to secure polysilicon on favorable terms and at the times needed, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially harmed. The actual cost to construct and equip our Polysilicon Plant may be significantly higher than our estimated cost. We previously estimated the total cost for construction of approximately $410 million. However, in February 2011, we determined that the total costs will be greater than our previous estimates. Based on recent construction progress and discussions with our vendors, we now expect to incur approximately $600 million of costs before we can commence operation of the first 2,500 metric tons of production capacity. We also expect to invest up to an additional $100 million to complete the second phase of construction, which will add an additional 1,500 metric tons of manufacturing capacity, and allow us to complete our planned on-site TCS plant. Thus, our revised estimate for the full, planned 4,000 metric ton plant is now approximately $700 million. The primary driver of the increase in costs relates to our engineering contract with Stone & Webster, Inc., and our construction contract with JH Kelly LLC as they are cost-plus contracts, rather than lump sum, or fixed cost contracts. As such, there is no guaranteed maximum cost. In addition, the estimated total cost increased in part by the fact that the construction schedule was expected to be approximately two years, but has instead been spread over four years with numerous starts and stops as a result of earlier challenges obtaining adequate financing in a timely manner. Furthermore, construction of the Polysilicon Plant commenced prior to the completion of the detailed engineering work, which caused numerous changes in the design of the facility, further contributing to the increase in delays and construction costs. The amount and timing of our future capital needs depend on many factors, including the timing of the Polysilicon Plant development efforts, and the amount and timing of any revenue we are able to generate. Changes in construction costs resulting from increased demand, modifications in construction timelines, changes in our design, delays in our construction schedule and other factors could cause our actual cost to significantly exceed our estimate. If the actual cost is significantly higher than we estimate, we may be unable to raise any additional funding required to pay for any such added costs it could materially and adversely affect our ability to raise capital, to complete the Polysilicon Plant on schedule or at all, and could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and we may be forced to delay, alter or abandon our planned business operations. Even if we receive additional financing and prepayments on time and in the amounts agreed upon, the actual costs to engineer, construct, and procure the Polysilicon Plant could exceed our estimates. If we are unable to meet our customer commitments, our business will be materially harmed and we may be forced to delay, alter or abandon our planned business operations. An unexpected and significant increase in the cost of construction may slow down or delay the completion of the Polysilicon Plant, which increases the risk that we will not meet certain construction and delivery milestones in our long-term polysilicon supply contracts. Failure to meet our construction and delivery milestones could cause one of our customers to terminate one or more of our polysilicon supply contracts and exercise their right to seek a refund of any prepayments made as of the date of termination. Any such termination could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 19 If we are unable to meet our obligations under our vendor and supplier agreements, or if we do not receive customer prepayments under our polysilicon supply agreement, we may not be able to continue or complete the construction of the Polysilicon Plant. In order to address our cash needs for the construction of the Polysilicon Plant, we have modified payment terms in purchase orders with some of our vendors, and are in negotiations with other vendors, to structure payment plans for amounts past due and to be invoiced in the future. In the event we are unable to meet our obligations under payment plans and other agreements, we will have to ask our vendors to forebear from enforcing one or more of their rights under their respective agreements. There are no assurances that any of our vendors will agree to forebear or otherwise make any concessions under their respective agreements. If any of our vendors seek to enforce our obligations under these agreements that we are unable to perform, which could include asserting and/or foreclosing on materialman’s and laborer’s liens on the Polysilicon Plant, or taking other legal action, it could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and we may be forced to delay, alter or abandon our planned polysilicon business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business In addition, we have experienced delays in the receipt of customer prepayments from certain of our long-term polysilicon supply customers. If we experience further delays in receipt of these payments, receive reduced payments, or fail to receive any of them entirely, we could experience delays in our ability to continue the engineering and construction of the Polysilicon Plant in order to deliver polysilicon within the time periods specified in our customer supply contracts, which could materially harm our business. Even if we receive these prepayments on time and in the amounts agreed upon, the actual costs to engineer and construct the Polysilicon Plant could exceed our estimates, and we may be unable to raise any additional funding required to pay for any such added costs. If we are unable to meet our customer commitments, our business will be materially harmed and we may be forced to delay, alter or abandon our planned business operations We have a limited operating history and, in fiscal 2007, we decided to enter the photovoltaic system installation and polysilicon markets and to redirect efforts and resources that were historically directed toward the fuel cell market. If we are unable to generate significant revenue from our photovoltaic system installations and polysilicon segments, our business will be materially harmed. We were incorporated in March 2001 and have a limited operating history. We have cumulative net losses since our inception through March 31, 2011. In fiscal 2007, we announced a change in our main business and our intention to form a polysilicon business through our subsidiary, Hoku Materials, and a photovoltaic, or PV, system installation business through our subsidiary Hoku Solar. The polysilicon business includes developing production capabilities for, and the eventual production of polysilicon. The PV systems installation business includes the design, engineering, procurement and installation of turnkey PV systems for residential and commercial customers. Prior to our announcement, our business was solely focused on the stationary and automotive fuel cell markets. In September 2010, we elected to discontinue the operations of Hoku Fuel Cells. We have no prior experience in the polysilicon business. In order to be successful, we are devoting substantial management time and energy and significant capital resources to develop this new business, including the construction of the Polysilicon Plant. We commenced construction in May 2007, and we produced our first product at our production demonstration in April 2010. We expect to begin commercial production of polysilicon beginning in the first half of fiscal year 2012, with full-scale production in the second half of fiscal 2012; however, there are no assurances that this schedule will not need to be further modified. We may need to purchase polysilicon from third parties in order to meet delivery schedules in order to avoid termination of one or more of our customer supply contracts. In addition, delays in polysilicon shipments could result in the termination of a customer supply contract, which could require us to refund substantial amounts of prepayments made to us for future product deliveries. We have encountered, and expect that we will continue to encounter, significant challenges relating to our entry into the polysilicon industry and changes in that industry, including potentially significant increases in polysilicon supply and falling polysilicon prices. If we are unable to address these risks and other risks successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. If any of our project engineering, construction, or key equipment vendors are late in providing their contract deliverables, we may be unable to complete the construction of the Polysilicon Plant to begin commercial shipments during second half of calendar year 2011, or at all, which could materially harm our business. We have contracts with Stone & Webster, Inc. JH Kelly, LLC, GEC Graeber Engineering Consultants GmbH and MSA Apparatus Construction for Chemical Equipment, Ltd., Idaho Power Company, Dynamic Engineering Inc., AEG Power Solutions USA Inc., formerly known as Saft Power Systems USA, Inc., PVA Tepla Danmark, Polymet Alloys, Inc., BHS Acquisitions, LLC, Evonik Degussa Corporation, and our other vendors, contractors and consultants who are providing key services, equipment, and supplies for the engineering and construction of the Polysilicon Plant. We have experienced delays in the performance or delivery of these services, equipment, and goods under some of these agreements, which resulted in delays in our production schedule and increased our costs to construct the Polysilicon Plant. If we experience additional delays in the performance or delivery of the services, equipment, or goods under any of these respective agreements, we may be unable to commence production of polysilicon in the second half of calendar year 2011, with full-scale production in the second half of calendar year 2011, or deliver the volume of polysilicon that is required under our polysilicon supply agreements. If we are unable to meet these scheduling goals, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. 20 If we are unable to secure adequate quantities of trichlorosilane on favorable terms and at the times needed, our business will be materially harmed. We deferred capital expenditures by delaying construction of our on-site trichlorosilane, or TCS, production facility. TCS is needed to produce polysilicon. We have received shipments of small volumes of TCS from two suppliers for our initial polysilicon production, and are in discussions to procure TCS with various third parties. We are in discussions with these third-party TCS producers for higher volume TCS supply contracts to enable us to execute this strategy. There are no assurances that we will be able to secure adequate TCS at the time and in the amounts required on favorable terms, or at all. Failure to do so may prevent us from meeting certain milestones in our customer contracts or to meet our customer supply commitments and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially harmed. We may have difficulty managing changes in our operations, which could harm our business. To date we have expended significant financial and management resources in connection with our planned entry into the polysilicon market and the development of our PV system installation business. For example, in May 2007, we commenced construction of the Polysilicon Plant. Construction of the Polysilicon Plant and the operation of the polysilicon manufacturing and PV system installation businesses involves substantial changes to our operations and places a significant strain on our senior management team and financial and other resources, and has, among other things, required us to significantly increase our international activities; hire and train additional financial, accounting, sales and marketing personnel; and to make substantial investment in our engineering, logistics, financial and information systems, including implementing new enterprise-level transaction processing, operational and financial management information systems, procedures and controls. Any failure by us to manage the expansion of our operations or succeed in these markets or other markets that we may enter in the future, may harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in demand for polysilicon and industrial production capacity for polysilicon could harm our business. Certain polysilicon producers have invested heavily in the expansion of their production capacities in view of the recent scarcity of solar-grade polysilicon. We currently expect significant additional capacity to come on-line in calendar year 2012, near the time when the Polysilicon Plant is scheduled to become fully operational. In addition, if an excess supply of electronic-grade polysilicon were to develop, producers of electronic-grade silicon could switch production to solar-grade polysilicon, causing the price of solar-grade polysilicon to decline more rapidly than we currently anticipate. The electronic-grade polysilicon market historically has experienced significant cyclicality; for example, that market experienced significant excess supply from 1998 through 2003. Moreover, the forecasted increases in polysilicon supply could also be exacerbated if the demand for polysilicon decreases significantly as a result of the introduction of new technologies that materially reduce or eliminate the need for polysilicon in producing effective PV systems. If any of these events occur, they could result in an excess supply of solar-grade polysilicon and could suppress market prices for solar-grade polysilicon. Any such suppression of market prices for polysilicon would affect the price which we could expect to receive in selling our polysilicon in the spot market and could provide our customers with incentives to reconsider or renegotiate their long-term supply contracts with us to the extent the polysilicon deliverable under those contracts is priced above prevailing market prices. During fiscal year 2010, spot market prices of polysilicon decreased dramatically with an increase in supply, and further price declines are possible in calendar year 2011 as additional supply is forecasted to enter the market. Further decreases in demand and polysilicon prices could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, industry–wide shortages of polysilicon could result in dramatic increases in the long-term contract and spot prices for polysilicon. Under its long-term supply agreements with major customers that contain fixed prices, the Company would be forced to sell the polysilicon it produces at prices that are below the then prevailing spot prices. To the extent the Company is unable to take advantage of price increases, either in spot or contract prices, it would have a negative impact on its results of operations and financial condition. In addition, in the past, industry-wide shortages of polysilicon have created shortages of PV modules and increased prices for such modules. In the event of a polysilicon shortage, any inability to obtain PV modules at commercially reasonable prices, or at all, would adversely affect our PV system installation business by reducing our ability to meet potential customer demand for our products or to provide products at competitive prices. Any continued industry shortage in available polysilicon could delay the potential growth of our PV system installations business, thereby harming our business. 21 We rely on limited suppliers and, if these suppliers fail to deliver materials that meet our quality requirements in a timely, cost-effective manner or at all, our production of polysilicon and our installation of PV systems would be limited. It is highly likely that we will procure materials for our PV system installation business from vertically integrated solar module manufacturing and installation companies that are also our competitors. These companies may choose in the future not to sell these materials to us at all, or may raise their prices to a level that would prevent us from selling our goods and services on a profitable basis. In our polysilicon business we rely heavily on our contracted suppliers of key process technologies and infrastructure including such components as the reactors and the TCS process. If any of these suppliers fail to perform their contractual obligations, we will be required to seek alternative suppliers and likely will not be able to commence production of polysilicon at the Polysilicon Plant on our current schedule. Any such production delays may result in a breach of one or more of our supply agreements with Alex, Suntech, SolarOne, Jinko, Tianwei and/or Solargiga and such breaches may allow these customers to terminate the supply agreements and seek a return of prepayments, which would harm our business and may make the completion of the Polysilicon Plant impossible. Even if we achieve our polysilicon and PV system installation objectives on a timely basis and complete the construction of the Polysilicon Plant, we may still be unsuccessful in developing, producing and/or selling these products and services, which would harm our business. If we are successful in our efforts to construct the Polysilicon Plant, our ability to successfully compete in the polysilicon and PV system installation markets will depend on a number of factors, including: · our ability to produce or procure TCS and polysilicon, and install PV systems at costs that allow us to achieve or maintain profitability in these businesses; · our ability to successfully manage a much larger and growing enterprise, with a broader national and international presence; · our ability to attract new customers and expand existing customer relationships; · our ability to develop new technologies to become competitive through cost reductions; · our ability to scale our business and maintain low production costs to be competitive; · our ability to predict and adapt to changing market conditions, including the price of inputs and the spot price for polysilicon sold in the market by us or purchased by us from third parties to settle customer commitments; and · future product liability or warranty claims. If our PV system installation competitors are able to develop and market products that customers prefer to our products, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to continue operations. The market for PV systems installations is competitive and continually evolving. As a relatively new entrant to this market, we expect to face substantial competition from companies such as SunPower Corporation, SunEdison, Chevron Energy Solutions, REC Solar and other new and emerging companies in Hawaii, Asia, North America and Europe. In addition, the Hawaii market is gaining additional attention from potential competitors, owing to the expected introduction of a Feed-in Tariff by the local public utility. Many of our known competitors are more established in the solar industry than we are, and have a stronger market position than ours and have larger resources and name recognition than we have. Furthermore, the PV market in general competes with other sources of renewable energy and conventional power generation, and if our customers prefer these other sources over ours, it may have a material adverse impact on our revenue and results of operations. Technological development in the solar power industry could reduce market demand for polysilicon or allow for lower cost production of polysilicon by our competitors, which could cause our sales and profit to decline. The solar power industry is characterized by evolving technologies and standards. Technological evolutions and developments in PV products, including thin-film technologies, higher PV efficiency and thinner wafers may decrease the demand for polysilicon by PV module manufacturers, and some manufacturers are developing alternative solar technologies that require significantly less silicon than crystalline silicon-based solar cells and modules, or no polysilicon at all. If these developing technologies prove more advantageous in application and are widely adopted, we may experience a decrease in demand for our polysilicon and a decrease in our sales or operating margins. 22 Additionally, other technologies for the production of polysilicon are increasing in prevalence in the industry. Technologies which compete with the Siemens reactor process, including fluidized bed reactor process, may enable the manufacture of polysilicon more quickly or at lower cost than does the Siemens reactor process. To the extent that our competitors adopt other technologies that enable them to compete more effectively, our operating margins and price-competitiveness may be impacted. In the event that we are unable to re-design the Polysilicon Plant around these more efficient processes on manageable timetables and at reasonable cost, our business could be adversely affected Our operating results have fluctuated in the past, and we expect a number of factors to cause our operating results to continue to fluctuate in the future, making it difficult for us to accurately forecast our quarterly and annual operating results. Hoku Materials does not currently generate any operating revenue. All of our revenue presently is generated by Hoku Solar and our PV system installation activities. Our future operating results and cash flows will depend on many factors that will impact our polysilicon business run by Hoku Materials and, our PV system installation business run by Hoku Solar, including the following: · the size and timing of customer orders, milestone achievement, product delivery and customer acceptance, if required; · the length of contract negotiation cycles, · the timing of equipment delivery and procurement, integration and testing, · our success in obtaining prepayments from customers for future shipments of polysilicon; · our success in maintaining and enhancing existing strategic relationships and developing new strategic relationships with potential customers; · our ability to finance power purchase agreements for potential PV system installation customers; · actions taken by our competitors, including new product introductions and pricing changes; · the costs of maintaining our operations; · customer budget cycles and changes in these budget cycles; and · external economic and industry conditions. As a result of these factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investors’ views of us. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. In May 2007, we commenced construction of the Polysilicon Plant. Construction of the Polysilicon Plant and the operation of our polysilicon manufacturing and PV system installation businesses will involve substantial changes to our operations and will require us to increase our international activities; hire and train additional financial and accounting personnel; make substantial investments in our engineering, logistics, financial and information systems, including implementing new enterprise-level transaction processing, operational, financial and accounting management information systems, procedures and controls. In connection with the planned increased scale of our polysilicon manufacturing and PV system installation businesses and our implementation of new operational and financial management information systems to accommodate these businesses, we expect to engage in a process of documenting, reviewing and improving our internal controls and procedures in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires an annual assessment by management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We conduct annual testing of our internal controls in connection with the Section 404 requirements and, as part of that documentation and testing, we may identify areas for further attention and improvement. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal controls may entail substantial costs in order to modify our existing accounting systems and may take a significant period of time to complete, which may distract our officers, directors and employees from the operation of our business. Further, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the internal controls, disclosure controls and IT infrastructure of the businesses that we may acquire in the future. These changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal controls, and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and could materially impair our ability to operate our business. In addition, investors’ perceptions that our internal controls are inadequate or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements may seriously affect our stock price. 23 We will use materials that are considered hazardous in our planned polysilicon manufacturing and production processes and, therefore, we could be held liable for any losses not covered by insurance that result from the use and handling of such hazardous materials. The production of polysilicon will involve the use of materials that are hazardous to human health and the environment, the storage, handling and disposal of which will be subject to government regulation. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may increase our manufacturing costs and may require us to halt or suspend our operations until we regain compliance. If we have an accident at the Polysilicon Plant involving a spill or release of these substances, we may be subject to civil and/or criminal penalties, including financial penalties and damages, and possibly injunctions preventing us from continuing our operations. Any liability for penalties or damages, and any injunction resulting from damages to the environment or public health and safety, could harm our business. In addition under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner or operator of real estate is liable for costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances on or in such property. These laws often impose such liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such substances. We do not have any insurance for liabilities arising from the use and handling of hazardous materials. Our polysilicon manufacturing business will involve many operating risks that can cause substantial losses. The manufacture of our polysilicon may involve one or more of the following risks: · fires or explosions; · spills or releases; and · pipe, vessel, or system failures. In the event that any of the foregoing events occur, we could incur substantial losses as a result of injury or loss of life; severe damage or destruction of property, natural resources or equipment; pollution and other environmental damage; investigatory and clean-up responsibilities; regulatory investigation and penalties; suspension of operations; or repairs to resume operations. If we experience any of these problems, our ability to conduct operations could be adversely affected. These conditions can cause substantial damage to facilities and interrupt production. If realized, the foregoing risks could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any significant and prolonged disruption of our operations in Hawaii could result in PV system installation delays that would reduce our revenue. Hoku Solar’s business operations are currently located exclusively in the state of Hawaii, which is subject to the potential risk of earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods and other natural disasters. The occurrence of an earthquake, hurricane, tsunami, flood or other natural disaster in Hawaii could result in damage, power outages and other disruptions that would interfere with our ability to conduct our PV system installation business. In October 2006, for example, Hawaii suffered a major earthquake causing significant damage throughout the state. Our facilities and operations, however, did not suffer any damage. Most of the materials we use in our PV system installation business must be delivered via air or sea. Hawaii has a large union presence and has historically experienced labor disputes, including dockworker strikes, which could prevent or delay cargo shipments. Any future dispute that delays shipments via air or sea could prevent us from procuring or installing our turnkey PV systems in time to meet our customers’ requirements, or might require us to seek alternative and more expensive freight forwarders or contract manufacturers, which could increase our expenses and/or impact the timing of revenue recognition We have significant international activities and customers, particularly in China, that subject us to additional business risks, including increased logistical complexity and regulatory requirements, which could result in a decline in our revenue. Our current polysilicon supply agreements are with Alex, Suntech, Jinko, SolarOne, Tianwei and Solargiga, all of which are located in the People’s Republic of China, or China, and Hong Kong. As a result, we will be engaging in significant international sales of our polysilicon, which can be subject to many inherent risks that are difficult or impossible for us to predict or control, including: 24 · political and economic instability; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and tariffs; · difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations, including foreign distributor relationships; · longer accounts receivable collection cycles in certain foreign countries; · adverse economic or political changes; · more limited protection for intellectual property in some countries; · potential trade restrictions, exchange controls and import and export licensing requirements; · U.S. and foreign government policy changes affecting the markets for our products; · problems in collecting accounts receivable; and · potentially adverse tax consequences of overlapping tax structures. All of our polysilicon supply contracts are denominated in U.S. dollars. Therefore, increases in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar to foreign currencies will cause our products to become relatively more expensive to customers in those countries, which could lead to a reduction in sales or profitability in some cases. All of our polysilicon customers are located in China and Hong Kong, which involves various political and economic risks. Presently, all of our long-term polysilicon supply contracts are with companies based in China and Hong Kong. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be disproportionately affected by economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: · the higher level of government involvement and regulation; · the early stage of development of the market-oriented sector of the economy; · the rapid growth rate; and · the higher level of control over foreign exchange. China’s government continues to exercise significant control over economic growth in China through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and imposing policies that impact particular industries or companies in different ways. China’s government also sets policy with respect to the use of alternative energy such as solar. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Non-U.S. companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in practices such as bribery, pay-offs or other fraudulent practices in China, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse general economic conditions could harm our business. Adverse overall economic conditions that impact consumer spending could impact our results of operations. Future economic conditions affecting disposable income such as employment levels, consumer confidence, credit availability, business conditions, stock market volatility, weather conditions, acts of terrorism, pandemic, threats of war, and interest and tax rates could reduce consumer spending or cause consumers to shift their spending away from our goods and services. If the economic conditions continue to be adverse or worsen, we may experience material adverse impacts on our business, operating results and financial condition. 25 A drop in the retail price of conventional energy or non-solar renewable energy sources could harm our business. The price of conventional energy can affect the demand for alternative energy solutions such as solar. Fluctuations in economic and market conditions that impact the prices of conventional and non-solar renewable energy sources could cause the demand for solar energy systems to decline, which would have a negative impact on our business. Reduction in prices for oil and other fossil fuels and utility electric rates could also have a negative effect on our PV system installation and polysilicon production businesses. Conversely, our polysilicon manufacturing process uses significant amounts of electric energy. High energy prices, therefore, could increase our production costs, and increases in the cost of electricity could reduce our margins. Although we have entered into a long term contract with Idaho Power to supply electric power to the Polysilicon Plant at a fixed rate, the Idaho Public Utilities Commission can change the rate under certain circumstances. Should this happen, substantial increases in our electricity costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Current credit and financial market conditions could prevent or delay our current or future customers from obtaining financing necessary to purchase our products and services or finance their own operations or capacity expansions, which could adversely affect our business, our operating results and financial condition. Due to the recent severe tightening of credit and concerns regarding the availability of credit around the world, our solar customers may delay or attempt to delay their payments to us in connection with product and service purchases, or may be delayed in obtaining, or may not be able to obtain, necessary financing for their purchases of our products and services or their own operations or expansion plans. In addition, the current credit and financial market conditions may adversely affect the ability of our customers that have executed long-term supply agreements to purchase polysilicon from us to make additional required payments to us pursuant to these long-term supply agreements or to fund their own expansion plans. Delays of this nature could materially harm our polysilicon sales and PV installations, and therefore harm our business. Risks Associated With Government Regulation and Incentives If we do not obtain on a timely basis the necessary government permits and approvals to construct and operate the Polysilicon Plant, our construction costs could increase and our business could be harmed. We have received the air permit and storm water prevention permit that are necessary to begin construction of the Polysilicon Plant; however, we need to apply for additional permits with federal, state and local authorities before we can commence operation of the Polysilicon Plant. The government regulatory process is lengthy and unpredictable and delays could cause additional expense and increase our construction costs. In addition, we could be required to change our construction plans in order receive the required permits and such changes could also result in additional expense and delay. Any delay in completion of construction could result in us failing to meet our delivery deadlines under our supply agreements and give the other parties to these agreements the right to terminate the agreements. Our business and industry are subject to government regulation, which may harm our ability to market our products. The market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by foreign, federal, state and local government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as policies promulgated by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation. In the United States and in a number of other countries, these regulations and policies are being modified and may continue to be modified. Customer purchases of, or further investment in the research and development of, alternative energy sources, including solar power technology, could be deterred by these regulations and policies, which could result in a significant reduction in the potential demand for our PV system installations. For example, without a regulatory mandated exception for solar power systems, utility customers are often charged interconnection or standby fees for putting distributed power generation on the electric utility grid. These fees could increase the cost to our customers of installing PV systems and make them less desirable, thereby harming our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, our agreements with The James Campbell Company and Forest City Sustainable Resources, LLC to construct PV systems are conditioned upon receiving various government approvals. The installation of PV systems is subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national and local ordinances relating to zoning, building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering and related matters. It is difficult to track the requirements of individual states and counties and to design equipment to comply with the varying standards. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to PV system installations may result in significant additional expenses to us and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our PV system installation services. 26 If government incentives to locate the Polysilicon Plant in the City of Pocatello, Idaho are not realized then the costs of establishing the Polysilicon Plant may be higher than we currently estimate. The State of Idaho and the local municipal government have approved a variety of incentives to attract Hoku Materials, including tax incentives, financial support for infrastructure improvements around the Polysilicon Plant, and grants to fund the training of new employees. In March 2007, we entered into a 99-year ground lease with the City of Pocatello, for approximately 67 acres of land in Pocatello, Idaho and in May 2007, we commenced construction of the Polysilicon Plant. In May 2007, the City of Pocatello approved an ordinance that authorized certain tax incentives related to the infrastructure necessary for the completion and operation of the Polysilicon Plant. In May 2009, we entered into an Economic Development Agreement, or the PDA Agreement, with the Pocatello Development Authority, or the PDA, pursuant to which the PDA agreed to reimburse to us amounts we actually incur in making certain infrastructure improvements consistent with the North Portneuf Urban Renewal Area and Revenue Allocation District Improvement Plan and the Idaho Urban Renewal Law, or the Infrastructure Reimbursement, and an additional amount as reimbursement for and based on the number of full time employee equivalents we create and maintain, or the Employment Reimbursement, at the Polysilicon Plant. The parties agreed that (a) the Infrastructure Reimbursement will be an amount that is equal to 95% of the tax increment payments the PDA actually collects on the North Portneuf Tax Increment Financing District with respect to our real and personal property located in such district, or the TIF Revenue, up to approximately $26.0 million, less the actual Road Costs, and (b) the Employment Reimbursement will be an amount that is equal to 50% of the TIF Revenue, up to approximately $17.0 million. However, there are no assurances that all or any part of the amount authorized will be paid to us, and we could ultimately receive significantly less or no payment at all, and we may not realize the benefits of these other offered incentives including workforce training funds and utility capacities. The tax incentives expire on December 31, 2030. If there are changes to the ordinance, which reduces the amount of the incentives, or for other reasons, some of which may be beyond our control, we are unable to realize all or any part of these incentives, the operating costs of the Polysilicon Plant may be higher than we currently estimate. The reduction or elimination of government and economic incentives for PV systems and related products could reduce the market opportunity for our PV installation services. We believe that the near-term growth of the market for on-grid applications, where solar power is used to supplement a customer’s electricity purchased from the utility network, depends in large part on the availability and size of government incentives. Because we plan to sell to the on-grid market, the reduction or elimination of government incentives may adversely affect the growth of this market or result in increased price competition, both of which adversely affect our ability to compete in this market. Currently, the U.S. federal solar tax credit is scheduled to expire at the end of calendar year 2016. If similar tax or other federal government incentives are not available beyond calendar year 2016, it could harm our PV system installation business. Today, the cost of solar power exceeds the cost of power furnished by the electric utility grid in many locations. As a result, federal, state and local government bodies in many countries, most notably Germany, Japan and the United States, have provided incentives in the form of rebates, tax credits and other incentives to end users, distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of solar power products to promote the use of solar energy in on-grid applications and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. These government economic incentives could be reduced or eliminated altogether. For example, Germany has been a strong supporter of solar power products and systems and political changes in Germany could result in significant reductions or eliminations of incentives, including the reduction of tariffs over time. Some solar program incentives expire, decline over time, are limited in total funding or require renewal of authority. Net metering policies in Japan could limit the amount of solar power installed there. Reductions in, or elimination or expiration of, governmental incentives could result in decreased demand for PV products, and reduce the size of the market for our planned PV system installation services and the demand for solar-grade polysilicon. Risks Associated With Our Common Stock and Charter Documents Our stock price is volatile and purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. Our stock price is volatile and between April 1, 2010 and March 31, 2011, our stock had low and high sales prices in the range of $1.75 to $3.78 per share. During fiscal 2011, the stock market in general has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, including: 27 · variations in our financial results or those of our competitors and our customers; · changes in projected schedule and estimated cost for the construction of the Polysilicon Plant; · announcements by us, our competitors and our customers of acquisitions, new products, the acquisition or loss of significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; · the performance of the stock market generally and the over-all condition of the global macro economy; · failure to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors with respect to our financial results; · our ability to develop and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis; · litigation; · changes in our management; · changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals; · future sales of our common stock by us and future sales of our common stock by our officers, directors and affiliates, including Tianwei; · investors’ perceptions of us; and · general economic, industry and market conditions. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility and a decrease in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Class action litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Tianwei has a controlling interest in us and, as long as Tianwei controls us, other stockholders’ ability to influence matters requiring stockholder approval will be limited. As of March 31, 2011, Tianwei owns 33,379,287 shares of our common stock, and holds a warrant to purchase an additional 10 million shares of our common stock, together representing approximately 60% of our total outstanding shares of common stock. Tianwei has the right to nominate four out of seven of our directors until the earlier of (i) Tianwei (together with its affiliates) ceasing to be our largest individual stockholder or (i) Tianwei (together with its affiliates) owning less than 25% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. In addition, as a majority stockholder Tianwei has the ability to control the outcome of all matters that would be determined by a vote of our stockholders, including: · the composition of our board of directors and, through our board of directors, any determination with respect to our business plans and policies, including the appointment and removal of our officers; · any determinations with respect to mergers and other business combinations; · our acquisition or disposition of assets; · our financing activities; · changes to our polysilicon supply agreements with Tianwei; · the allocation of business opportunities that may be suitable for us and Tianwei; · the payment of dividends on our common stock; and · the number of shares available for issuance under our stock plans. Tianwei’s voting control may discourage transactions involving a change of control of us, including transactions in which the holders of our common stock might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then current market price. In addition, Tianwei is not prohibited from selling its equity interest in us to a third party and may do so without stockholder approval and without providing for a purchase of other stockholders’ shares of common stock. Accordingly, our shares of common stock may be worth less than they would be if Tianwei did not maintain voting control over us. 28 Through control of our board of directors, Tianwei may cause our board to act in Tianwei’s best interests which may diverge from the best interests of other stockholders and make it difficult for us to recruit quality independent directors. Pursuant to an Investor Rights Agreement, dated as of December 2009, Tianwei has the right to nominate four out of seven directors on our Board of Directors and may at any time replace four out of seven of our directors. Currently four out of seven directors on our board are designees of Tianwei. As a result, unless and until the earlier of (i) Tianwei (together with its affiliates) ceasing to be our largest individual stockholder or (ii) Tianwei (together with its affiliates) owning less than 25% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, Tianwei can effectively control and direct our board of directors, which means that to the extent that our interests and the interests of Tianwei diverge, Tianwei can cause us to act in Tianwei’s best interest to the detriment of the value of our common stock. Under these circumstances, persons who might otherwise accept our invitation to join our board of directors may decline. Foreign investors in our stock may face certain tax withholding rules if we are classified as a U.S. real property holding corporation. Under U.S. tax rules, a corporation is considered a U.S. real property holding corporation if the fair market value of its real property interests held by the corporation in the United States equals or exceeds 50% of the total fair market values of its real property interests and business assets. In such event, the foreign seller of stock in a publicly-traded corporation who owns more than 5% of that corporation’s common stock is subject to a tax withholding requirement imposed on the purchaser, equal to 10% of the sales price of the stock. This 10% withholding applies to the amount realized on the sale of the stock, irrespective of the seller’s gain on the sale. This withheld tax is treated as an advance payment against the actual individual or corporate capital-gains tax owed by the investor. In the event we were to be classified as a U.S. real property holding corporation, large foreign investors who hold more than 5% of our stock, would be subject to this 10% withholding requirement. Anti-takeover defenses that we have in place could prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to change our directors or management. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it more difficult for or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us without the approval of our Board of Directors. These provisions: · establish a classified Board of Directors, so that not all members of our Board of Directors may be elected at one time; · set limitations on the removal of directors; · limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders; · establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; · prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and · provide our Board of Directors the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our management team and may deprive investors of the opportunity to sell their shares to potential acquirers at a premium over prevailing prices. This potential inability to obtain a control premium could reduce the price of our common stock. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law provides, subject to certain exceptions, that if a person acquires 15% of our voting stock, the person is an “interested stockholder” and may not engage in “business combinations” with us for a period of three years from the time the person acquired 15% or more or our voting stock. Our Board of Directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition. 29 Because we do not intend to pay dividends, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have not paid cash dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date, and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The success of an investment in our common stock will depend entirely upon any future appreciation. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders purchased their shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 