ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We have a limited operating history, and have recently determined to enter the photovoltaic installations and polysilicon markets and scale back our efforts in the fuel cell market. If we are unable to generate significant revenue, our business will be harmed. We were incorporated in March 2001 and have a limited operating history. We have cumulative net losses since our inception through the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008. Hoku Materials does not currently generate any revenue and we do not expect to generate any revenue from Hoku Fuel Cells in the foreseeable future. During fiscal 2008, we completed PV system installation contracts related to Hoku Solar, and expect that all of our future revenue will be derived through PV system installations and related services and the sale of electricity until the first half of calendar year 2009, when Hoku Materials is expected to generate revenue through the sale of polysilicon. Our planned entry into the polysilicon market will require us to spend significant sums to support the construction of a facility to produce polysilicon, to purchase capital equipment, to fund new sales and marketing efforts, to pay for additional operating costs, and to significantly increase our headcount. As a result, we expect our costs to increase significantly, which will result in further losses before we can begin to generate significant revenue from our Hoku Materials and Hoku Solar divisions. If we are unable to generate significant revenue and achieve profitability, we will not be able to sustain our operations. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past, and we expect a number of factors to cause our operating results to continue to fluctuate in the future, making it difficult for us to accurately forecast our quarterly and annual operating results. We began installing PV systems during the second half of fiscal 2008 and will continue to have limited sources of revenue until we sign additional PV system installation contracts and successfully complete the installation of PV systems under those contracts. As of April 30, 2008, we had approximately $2.2 million in PV system installation and/or related services under contract that we expect to complete in fiscal 2009. We also have signed a non-binding letter of intent with Bank of Hawaii to explore additional turnkey PV system installations for the Bank’s facilities on the islands of Hawaii, Maui and Kauai, and are in discussions with The James Campbell Company to plan the Kapolei Sustainable Energy Park, which would be capable of generating approximately 1.5 megawatts of PV power. In addition, in May 2008, the Hawaii Public Utilities Commission approved the contract for Hawaiian Electric Company to purchase electricity generated by a PV system that we would install. We plan to install a 218-kilowatt PV system and sell the power generated by that system, which is expected to be in service by the end of calendar year 2008,over a 20-year period to Hawaiian Electric Company. Finally, we joined D.R. Horton-Schuler Division, a wholly owned subsidiary of D.R. Horton, Inc. in a marketing program to offer two-kilowatt PV systems to homebuyers at the Kahiwelo at Makakilo Development in Kapolei, Hawaii. The amount of potential revenue is contingent on whether the homebuyers choose to install a PV system. While we anticipate generating revenue from these agreements, at this time there can be no assurance that such revenues will be realized. Our future operating results and cash flows will depend on many factors that impact Hoku Materials, Hoku Solar and Hoku Fuel Cells, including the following: • the size and timing of customer orders, milestone achievement, product delivery and customer acceptance, if required; • our success in obtaining prepayments from customers for future shipments of polysilicon; • our success in maintaining and enhancing existing strategic relationships and developing new strategic relationships with potential customers; • our ability to finance power purchase agreements for Hawaiian Electric Company and other potential customers; • our ability to protect our intellectual property; • actions taken by our competitors, including new product introductions and pricing changes; • the costs of maintaining and expanding our operations; • customer budget cycles and changes in these budget cycles; and • external economic and industry conditions. As a result of these factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. We need approximately $390 million to construct and equip our planned polysilicon production plant and we may be unable to raise this additional capital on favorable terms or at all. We have announced our intention to form a polysilicon business as part of an integrated PV business. The polysilicon business includes developing production capabilities and the eventual production of polysilicon. Prior to our announcement, our business was solely focused on the stationary and automotive fuel cell markets and we had no prior experience in the polysilicon business. In order to be successful, we are devoting substantial management time, resources and funds to this new business. We intend to produce polysilicon at our planned polysilicon production facility in Pocatello, Idaho. We commenced construction in May 2007 and anticipate we will begin producing polysilicon beginning in the first half of calendar year 2009. 15 Based on our polysilicon supply agreements with customers, we plan to equip and construct a polysilicon production plant capable of producing up to 3,500 metric tons of polysilicon per year for an estimated total project cost of approximately $390 million. We intend to use the $240 million in advance payment commitments from our polysilicon customer agreements to contribute to the financing of the construction and for working capital, subject to our successful achievement of various financing, polysilicon production and quality milestones for Sanyo, Suntech, GEWD and Solarfun. In addition to the $240 million in customer commitments, we intend to contribute $40 million, of our available cash, including $12 million already paid by us. This leaves a shortfall of $110 million of additional capital that is required to fully fund the $390 million construction budget. We had previously announced our intention to work with Merrill Lynch for this additional funding in the form of project finance debt. In May 2008, we and Merrill Lynch mutually agreed to end this engagement, and instead, we intend to raise up to $110 million in additional financing through one or more debt or equity offerings for the procurement and construction of our polysilicon manufacturing facility. We believe that prior to obtaining financing we will have to, among other things, satisfy potential lenders and investors that we have adequately addressed the principal risks that: (1) the construction of the polysilicon plant is not completed on time, on budget, or at all; (2) the polysilicon plant does not operate at its full capacity; (3) the polysilicon plant fails to generate sufficient revenue to service any debt, or (4) that the financing will not be sufficient to complete the construction, procurement and start-up of our planned polysilicon plant. In order to address these risks we believe that we will need to accomplish and address the following: • if we finance through debt, obtain agreements from Sanyo Electric Company Ltd., Wuxi Suntech Power Co., Ltd., Global Expertise Wafer Division, Ltd. and Solarfun Power Hong Kong Limited to assign any purchase payments for polysilicon made to Hoku Materials to the lenders that may provide us with debt financing and to subordinate each of their pari passu security interests in Hoku Materials to the senior security interest of such lenders; • if we finance through debt, obtain agreements from Stone & Webster, Inc., JH Kelly LLC, GEC Graeber Engineering Consultants GmbH and MSA Apparatus Construction for Chemical Equipment, Ltd., Idaho Power Company, Dynamic Engineering Inc., Saft Power Systems USA, Inc., PVA Tepla Danmark and other potential vendors to assign their respective construction and/or service contracts to the lenders that may provide us with debt financing; • secure permits with federal, state and local authorities, including building permits to continue to construct our polysilicon plant, and permits to operate our plant when construction is complete; • obtain traditional road access to the site through one or more legally enforceable rights of access, such as an easement, from adjoining property owners; and • obtain the report of an independent engineering firm which supports our construction plans, our operating plans and our pro forma financial models which support the feasibility of our operating plans and business model. If we fail to successfully achieve any or all of the above objectives, we will be unable to complete construction of our planned production plant, our business will be materially and adversety affected, and we may be forced to delay, alter or abandon our planned business operations. In addition, any delay in achieving these objectives may result in additional expense which would harm our business. If our supply agreement with Sanyo Electric Company, Ltd. is terminated for any reason, our business will be materially harmed. In January 2008, we amended our supply agreement with Sanyo Electric Company, Ltd., or Sanyo, for the sale and delivery of polysilicon, or the Sanyo Supply Agreement. Under the Sanyo Supply Agreement, up to approximately $530 million may be payable to us during the ten-year period, subject to the achievement of certain milestones, the acceptance of product deliveries and other conditions. The Sanyo Supply Agreement provides for the delivery of predetermined volumes of polysilicon to Sanyo each year at set prices from January 2010 through December 2019. Pursuant to the Sanyo Supply Agreement, we granted Sanyo a security interest in all of the tangible and intangible assets related to Hoku Materials and all our equity interests in Hoku Materials, to serve as collateral for our obligations under the agreement. This security interest is pari-passu with the security interests granted to Wuxi Suntech Power Co., Ltd., Global Expertise Wafer Division, Ltd. and Solarfun Power Hong Kong Limited. Each party may elect to terminate the Sanyo Supply Agreement prior to December 2019 under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to: • our failure to secure financing by May 31, 2008 of at least $150 million in gross aggregate proceeds from long-term bank debt and customer prepayments; • the bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors or liquidation of the other party; • or a material breach of the other party. 16 Sanyo may also terminate the agreement for the following material breaches, among others: • if the polysilicon we deliver to Sanyo repeatedly fails to meet the quality requirements specified in the agreement; • if we fail to deliver a predetermined quantity of our polysilicon produced product by April 2010; • if we fail to deliver the minimum monthly quantity of product in any month beginning in April 2010; • if we fail to deliver the minimum annual quantity of polysilicon product in any year beginning in calendar year 2010; or • if we fail to complete successfully any of the polysilicon quality and production volume tests or the process implementation test set forth in the agreement within specified periods of time. We cannot guarantee that either we or Sanyo will not elect to terminate the agreement as a result of our inability to complete our financing by May 31, 2008. If the Sanyo Supply Agreement is terminated for any reason, our business will be materially harmed. In addition, if the Sanyo Supply Agreement is terminated, we will be required to return any deposits and advance payments received up to the date of the termination, which is $2 million as of May 31, 2008 and we will need to secure new funds in order to finance the construction of our polysilicon production plant. Securing new funds may delay the anticipated timing of completion of the production plant, which delay may result in us failing to meet our delivery requirements under our other supply agreements. We may not be able to secure new funds on terms as favorable to us as those under the Sanyo Supply Agreement or at all. If we are unable to secure new funds, we will not be able to complete construction of the production plant, our business will be materially and adversely affected and we may be forced to delay, alter or abandon our planned business operations. If our supply agreement with Wuxi Suntech Power Co., Ltd. is terminated for any reason, our business will be materially harmed. In May 2008, we amended our polysilicon supply agreement with Wuxi Suntech Power Co., Ltd., or Suntech, for the sale and delivery of polysilicon to Suntech over a ten-year period beginning in July 2009, or the Suntech Supply Agreement. Under the Suntech Supply Agreement, up to approximately $678 million may be payable to us during the ten-year period, subject to the achievement of milestones, the acceptance of product deliveries and other conditions. The Suntech Supply Agreement provides for the delivery of predetermined volumes of polysilicon by us and purchase of these volumes by Suntech each month and each year at set prices from or before July 1, 2009, for a continuous period of ten years. The term of the Suntech Supply Agreement is ten years from the date of the first shipment in 2009, which is approximately July 1, 2019. Pursuant to the Suntech Supply Agreement, we have granted to Suntech a security interest in all of our tangible and intangible assets related to our polysilicon business to serve as collateral for Hoku Materials' obligations under the Suntech Supply Agreement. Also, all of the equity ownership interest in Hoku Materials is to be pledged to secure the obligations of Hoku Materials under the Suntech Supply Agreement. These security interests are pari-passu with the security interests granted to Sanyo, Global Expertise Wafer Division, Ltd. and Solarfun Power Hong Kong Limited. Each party may elect to terminate the Suntech Supply Agreement under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to: • if we fail to secure financing by December 31, 2008 of at least $75 million in gross aggregate proceeds including the approximately $25 million we received from the sale of our common stock pursuant to a Securities Purchase Agreement, which is described in our Current Report on Form 8-K that was filed on February 25, 2008; • the bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors or liquidation of the other party; or • a material breach of the other party. Suntech may also terminate the agreement for the following material breaches: • if we fail to deliver a predetermined quantity of our polysilicon product by December 2009; or • if we fail to complete successfully any of the polysilicon quality and production volume tests or the process implementation test set forth in the agreement within specified periods of time. If the Suntech Supply Agreement is terminated for any reason, our business will be materially harmed. In addition, if the Suntech Supply Agreement is terminated, we will be required to return any deposits and advance payments received up to the date of the termination, which is $2 million as of May 31, 2008 and we will need to secure new funds in order to finance the construction of our polysilicon production plant. Securing new funds may delay the anticipated timing of completion of the production plant, which delay may result in us failing to meet our delivery requirements under our other supply agreements. We may not be able to secure new funds on terms as favorable to us as those under the Suntech Supply Agreement or at all. If we are unable to secure new funds, we will not be able to complete construction of the production plant, our business will be materially and adversely affected and we may be forced to delay, alter or abandon our planned business operations. If our supply agreement with Global Expertise Wafer Division Ltd. is terminated for any reason, our business will be materially harmed. In June 2007, we entered into a supply agreement with Global Expertise Wafer Division Ltd., or GEWD, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Solar-Fabrik AG, for the sale and delivery of polysilicon to GEWD over a seven-year period beginning in December 2009, or the GEWD Supply Agreement. Under the GEWD Supply Agreement, up to approximately $117 million may be payable to us during the seven-year period, subject to the achievement of milestones, the acceptance of product deliveries and other conditions. The GEWD Supply Agreement provides for the delivery of predetermined volumes of polysilicon by us and purchase of these volumes by GEWD each month and each year at set prices from or before December 31, 2009, for a continuous period of seven years. Pursuant to the GEWD Supply Agreement, we granted to GEWD a security interest in all of our tangible and intangible assets related to our polysilicon business, and all equity interests in Hoku Materials, owned by Hoku Scientific, to serve as collateral for our obligations under the GEWD Supply Agreement. This security interest is pari-passu with the security interests granted to Sanyo, Suntech and Solarfun Power Hong Kong Limited. Each party may elect to terminate the GEWD Supply Agreement under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to: • our failure to secure financing by May 31, 2008; 17 • the bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors or liquidation of the other party; or • a material breach of the other party. GEWD may also terminate the agreement for the following material breaches: • if we fail to deliver a predetermined quantity of our polysilicon product by December 2009; or • if the senior debt financing exceeds $185 million for the 2,000 metric ton annual capacity polysilicon production plant, plus reasonable additional debt to finance additional capacity. We cannot guarantee that either we or GEWD will not terminate the agreement as a result of our inability to complete our financing by May 31, 2008. If the GEWD Supply Agreement is terminated for any reason, our business will be harmed. In addition, if the GEWD Supply Agreement is terminated, we will be required to return any deposits and advance payments received up to the date of the termination, which is $2 million as of May 31, 2008 and we will need to secure new funds in order to finance the construction of our polysilicon production plant. Securing new funds may delay the anticipated timing of completion of the production plant, which delay may result in us failing to meet our delivery requirements under our other supply agreements. We may not be able to secure new funds on terms as favorable to us as those under the GEWD Supply Agreement or at all. If we are unable to secure new funds, we will not be able to complete construction of the production plant, our business will be materially and adversely affected and we may be forced to delay, alter or abandon our planned business operations. If the contract is terminated, we will be required to return any deposits and payment advances received prior to the date of termination. If our supply agreement with Solarfun Power Hong Kong Limited is terminated for any reason, our business will be materially harmed. In May 2008, we entered into a supply agreement with Solarfun Power Hong Kong Limited, a subsidiary of Solarfun Power Holdings Co., Ltd., or Solarfun, for the sale and delivery of polysilicon to Solarfun over a ten-year period beginning in July 2009, or the Solarfun Supply Agreement. Under the Solarfun Supply Agreement, up to approximately $384 million may be payable to us during the ten-year period, subject to the acceptance of product deliveries and other conditions. The Solarfun Supply Agreement provides for the delivery of predetermined volumes of polysilicon by us and purchase of these volumes by Solarfun each month and each year at set prices from the date of the first shipment in 2009, for a continuous period of ten years. Pursuant to the Solarfun Supply Agreement, we granted to Solarfun a security interest in all of our tangible and intangible assets related to our polysilicon business, and all equity interests in Hoku Materials, owned by Hoku Scientific, to serve as collateral for our obligations under the Solarfun Supply Agreement. This security interest is pari-passu with the security interests granted to Sanyo, Suntech and GEWD. Each party may elect to terminate the Solarfun Supply Agreement under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to: • if we fail to secure financing by December 31, 2008 of at least $75 million in gross aggregate proceeds, including the approximately $25 million we received from the sale of our common stock pursuant to a Securities Purchase Agreement; • the bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors or liquidation of the other party; or • a material breach of the other party. Solarfun may also terminate the agreement if we fail to deliver a predetermined quantity of our polysilicon product by December 2009. If the Solarfun Supply Agreement is terminated for any reason, our business will be materially harmed. In addition, if the Solarfun Supply Agreement is terminated, we will be required to return any deposits and advance payments received up to the date of the termination, which is $11 million as of May 31, 2008 and we will need to secure new funds in order to finance the construction of our polysilicon production plant. Securing new funds may delay the anticipated timing of completion of the production plant, which delay may result in us failing to meet our delivery requirements under our other supply agreements. We may not be able to secure new funds on terms as favorable to us as those under the Solarfun Supply Agreement or at all. If we are unable to secure new funds, we will not be able to complete construction of the production plant, our business will be materially and adversely affected and we may be forced to delay, alter or abandon our planned business operations. If the contract is terminated, we will be required to return any deposits and advance payments received prior to the date of termination. If our engineering and construction contractors and consultants fail to perform under their contracts with us on a timely basis, we will experience delays in the construction of our planned polysilicon production plant. If Stone & Webster, Inc., JH Kelly LLC, GEC Graeber Engineering Consultants GmbH and MSA Apparatus Construction for Chemical Equipment, Ltd., Idaho Power Company, Dynamic Engineering Inc., Saft Power Systems USA, Inc., PVA Tepla Danmark or any of our other consultants, engineers, vendors or service providers fail to perform on a timely basis under their respective agreements, then we will not be able to commence production of polysilicon at our planned polysilicon production facility on our current schedule. In addition, if we are required to seek alternative suppliers of the reactors, the TCS process, or electric substation for which we have already contracted, our costs could increase significantly and we would experience further delays. Any delays may result in a breach of our supply agreements with Sanyo, Suntech, GEWD and Solarfun which may allow them to terminate the supply agreements, which would harm our business. If we do not obtain on a timely basis the necessary government permits and approvals to construct and operate our planned polysilicon production plant our construction costs could increase and our business could be harmed. We have received the air permit and storm water prevention permit that are necessary to begin construction of our polysilicon plant; however, we need to apply for additional permits with federal, state and local authorities, including building permits to continue the construction our polysilicon plant, and permits to operate the plant when construction is complete. The government regulatory process is lengthy and unpredictable and delays could cause additional expense and increase our construction costs. In addition, we could be required to change our construction plans in order receive the required permits and such changes could also result in additional expense and delay. Any delay in completion of construction could result in us failing to meet our delivery deadlines under our supply agreements and give the other parties to these agreements the right to terminate the agreements. 18 If we are unable to obtain an easement across property adjoining the site of our planned polysilicon production plant or experience delays in the construction of an overpass we may be unable to access our property to operate our plant. We currently have limited construction access to our polysilicon plant site across both an at-grade railroad crossing pursuant to a private crossing agreement with Union Pacific Railroad that will expire on December 31, 2012, and pursuant to a temporary construction and access agreement between the City of Pocatello and the owner of a parcel adjacent to our facility that will expire in January 2010. Both agreements limit our access for construction purposes only, and we do not currently have the right to cross the railroad or the adjacent property to operate our planned polysilicon plant. We plan to ultimately build an overpass across the railroad or to work with the City of Pocatello to build a public road that would connect our property to the highway; however, prior to completion of the overpass or the public road, our investors or lenders may require that we obtain operational road access to the site through other legally enforceable rights of access, such as an easement, from adjoining property owners who are under no obligation to provide us with such legally enforceable rights of access. We have commenced discussions with the City of Pocatello and the property owners; however, the adjoining property owners are under no legal obligation to provide us with an easement or permit us to otherwise enter their property and we may not be able to obtain such access. Even if we achieve our polysilicon and PV system installation objectives on a timely basis and complete the construction of polysilicon production plant as currently planned, we may still be unsuccessful in developing, producing and/or selling these products and services, which would harm our business. If we are successful in our efforts to construct our polysilicon production facility, our ability to successfully compete in the polysilicon and PV system installation markets will depend on a number of factors, including: • our ability to produce trichlrosilane and polysilicon, and purchase PV modules at a cost that allows us to achieve or maintain profitability in these businesses; • our ability to successfully manage a much larger and growing enterprise, with a broader national and international presence; • our ability to attract and expand new customer relationships; • our ability to develop new technologies to become competitive through cost reductions and improvements in solar radiation conversion efficiencies; • our ability to scale our business to be competitive; • future product liability or warranty claims; and • our ability to compete within a highly competitive market against companies that have greater resources, longer operating histories and larger market share than we do. Industry-wide shortages or overcapacity in the production of polysilicon could harm our business. Polysilicon is an essential raw material in the production of PV cells, which are connected together to make modules. Polysilicon is created by refining quartz or sand, and is typically supplied to PV cell manufacturers in the form of silicon ingots that are sliced into wafers, or as pre-sliced wafers. Industry-wide shortages of polysilicon have created shortages of PV modules and increased prices. Our inability to obtain sufficient modules at commercially reasonable prices or at all would adversely affect our ability meet potential customer demand for our products or to provide products at competitive prices, and may delay the potential growth of PV system installations business, thereby harming our business. In light of these shortages, certain polysilicon producers have announced plans to invest heavily in the expansion of their production capacities in view of the current scarcity of solar-grade silicon, strong demand and the expected strong market growth. We currently expect significant additional capacity to come on-line in 2010. This expansion of production capacities could result in an excess supply of solar-grade silicon. In addition, if an excess supply of electronic-grade silicon were to develop, producers of electronic-grade silicon could switch production to solar-grade silicon, eliminating the current scarcity of solar-grade silicon or causing it to decline more rapidly than we currently anticipate. The electronic-grade silicon market historically has experienced significant cyclicality; for example, that market experienced significant excess supply from 1998 through 2003. Moreover, the current scarcity of silicon could also be overcome in the medium term if the need for silicon is significantly reduced as a result of the introduction of new technologies that significantly reduce or eliminate the need for silicon in producing effective PV systems. If any of these events occurred, they could lead to considerable pressure on the world market price for solar-grade silicon, which, in turn, could place pressure on our margins in these businesses. Accordingly, overcapacity in polysilicon production could harm our business. If government incentives to locate our planned polysilicon facility in the City of Pocatello, Idaho are not realized then the costs of establishing our facility may be higher than we currently estimate. The State of Idaho and the local municipal government have approved a variety of incentives to attract Hoku Materials, including tax incentives, financial support for infrastructure improvements around our facility, and grants to fund the training of new employees. In December 2006, we received a letter from the City of Pocatello, Idaho outlining a variety of financial and other incentives that could be available to us if we ultimately complete the construction of our planned polysilicon production facility in the City of Pocatello, Idaho. This letter is not a legally binding agreement on the part of the City of Pocatello, Idaho or on us, and the various incentives described in the letter are subject to a number of risks, contingencies and uncertainties, including the actual availability of financial and other incentives, including favorable tax incentives and utility availability, at the time of completion of planned construction and thereafter. 19 In March 2007, we entered into a 99-year ground lease with the City of Pocatello, for approximately 67 acres of land in Pocatello, Idaho and in May 2007 we commenced construction of our polysilicon facility. In May 2007, the City of Pocatello approved an ordinance that would provide us with tax incentives related to the infrastructure necessary for the completion of our planned polysilicon plant. We would receive up to $25.9 million in real property tax reimbursements for infrastructure improvements and up to $17.4 million in real property tax reimbursements based on employment numbers. The tax incentives expire on December 31, 2030. Except for the ground lease, we have not entered into any other definitive agreements with the State of Idaho or any municipal government and we may not realize the benefits of these other offered incentives including workforce training funds and utility capacities. If there are changes to the ordinance, which affects the amount of the incentives, and/or we are unable to realize these incentives the operating costs of our planned polysilicon facility in Idaho may be higher than we currently estimate. If our competitors are able to develop and market products that customers prefer to our products, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to continue operations. In the polysilicon market, we will also compete with companies such as Hemlock Semiconductor Corporation, Renewable Energy Corporation ASA, Mitsubishi Polycrystalline Silicon America Corporation, Mitsubishi Materials Corporation, Tokuyama Corporation, MEMC Electronic Materials, Inc., and Wacker Chemie AG. In addition, we believe new companies may be emerging in China, Korea, India, Europe, Brazil, Australia, North America, and the Middle East, and new technologies, such as fluidized bed reactors and direct solidification, are emerging, which may have significant cost and other advantages over the Siemens process we are planning to use to produce polysilicon at our production facility. These competitors may have longer operating histories, greater name recognition and greater financial, sales and marketing, technical and other resources than us. If we fail to compete successfully, we may be unable to successfully enter the market for polysilicon and PV modules. The market for PV systems installations is competitive and continually evolving. As a new entrant to this market, we expect to face substantial competition from companies such as PowerLight, a subsidiary of SunPower Corporation, SunEdison, and other new and emerging companies in Asia, North America and Europe. Many of our known competitors are established players in the solar industry, and have a stronger market position than ours and have larger resources and recognition than we have. Furthermore, the PV market in general competes with other sources of renewable energy and conventional power generation. Our business and industry are subject to government regulation, which may harm our ability to market our products. The market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by foreign, federal, state and local government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as policies promulgated by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation. In the United States and in a number of other countries, these regulations and policies are being modified and may continue to be modified. Customer purchases of, or further investment in the research and development of, alternative energy sources, including solar power technology, could be deterred by these regulations and policies, which could result in a significant reduction in the potential demand for our PV system installations. For example, without a regulatory mandated exception for solar power systems, utility customers are often charged interconnection or standby fees for putting distributed power generation on the electric utility grid. These fees could increase the cost to our customers of installing PV systems and make them less desirable, thereby harming our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, our discussions with The James Campbell Company to plan a Kapolei Sustainable Energy Park is subject to various conditions and government approvals related to the capped solid waste storage area on the site. The installation of PV systems is subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national and local ordinances relating to building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering and related matters. It is difficult to track the requirements of individual states and design equipment to comply with the varying standards. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to PV system installations may result in significant additional expenses to us and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our PV installation services. The reduction or elimination of government and economic incentives for PV systems and related products could reduce the market opportunity for our PV installation services. We believe that the near-term growth of the market for on-grid applications, where solar power is used to supplement a customer’s electricity purchased from the utility network, depends in large part on the availability and size of government incentives. Because we plan to sell to the on-grid market, the reduction or elimination of government incentives may adversely affect the growth of this market or result in increased price competition, both of which adversely affect our ability to compete in this market. Currently, the U.S. federal solar tax credit is scheduled to expire at the end of calendar year 2008. If similar tax or other federal government incentives are not available beyond calendar year 2008, it could harm our solar business. Today, the cost of solar power exceeds the cost of power furnished by the electric utility grid in many locations. As a result, federal, state and local government bodies in many countries, most notably Germany, Japan and the United States, have provided incentives in the form of rebates, tax credits and other incentives to end users, distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of solar power products to promote the use of solar energy in on-grid applications and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. These government economic incentives could be reduced or eliminated altogether. For example, Germany has been a strong supporter of solar power products and systems and political changes in Germany could result in significant reductions or eliminations of incentives, including the reduction of tariffs over time. Some solar program incentives expire, decline over time, are limited in total funding or require renewal of authority. Net metering policies in Japan could limit the amount of solar power installed there. Reductions in, or elimination or expiration of, governmental incentives could result in decreased demand for PV products, and reduce the size of the market for our planned PV system installation services. 20 We may not be able to protect our intellectual property, and we could incur substantial costs defending ourselves against claims that our products infringe on the proprietary rights of others. Our ability to compete effectively in the fuel cell market will depend on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights with respect to our Hoku MEAs, Hoku Membranes and manufacturing processes and any intellectual property we develop with respect to our polysilicon business. We rely in part on patents, trade secrets and policies and procedures related to confidentiality to protect our intellectual property. However, much of our intellectual property is not covered by any patent or patent application. Confidentiality agreements to which we are party may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Our trade secrets may also become known without breach of these agreements or may be independently developed by our competitors. Our inability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology and processes could allow our competitors to limit or eliminate any of our potential competitive advantages. Moreover, our patent applications may not result in the grant of patents either in the United States or elsewhere. Further, in the case of our issued patents or our patents that may issue, we do not know whether the claims allowed will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology or processes. Even if some or all of our patent applications issue are sufficiently broad, our patents may be challenged or invalidated and we may not be able to enforce them. We could incur substantial costs in prosecuting or defending patent infringement suits or otherwise protecting our intellectual property rights. We do not know whether we have been or will be completely successful in safeguarding and maintaining our proprietary rights. Moreover, patent applications filed in foreign countries may be subject to laws, rules and procedures that are substantially different from those of the United States, and any resulting foreign patents may be difficult and expensive to enforce. Further, our competitors may independently develop or patent technologies or processes that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. If we are found to be infringing third-party patents, we could be required to pay substantial royalties and/or damages, and we do not know whether we will be able to obtain licenses to use these patents on acceptable terms, if at all. Failure to obtain needed licenses could delay or prevent the development, production or sale of our products, and could necessitate the expenditure of significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing intellectual property. Asserting, defending and maintaining our intellectual property rights could be difficult and costly, and failure to do so might diminish our ability to compete effectively and harm our operating results. We may need to pursue lawsuits or legal actions in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and domain names, and to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. If third parties prepare and file applications for trademarks used or registered by us, we may oppose those applications and be required to participate in proceedings to determine priority of rights to the trademark. We cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered by our issued patent or our pending patent applications or that we were the first to invent technology because: • some patent applications in the United States may be maintained in secrecy until the patents are issued; • patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing; and • publications in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries and the filing of patents relating to those discoveries. Competitors may have filed applications for patents, may have received patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights relating to products or technology that block or compete with our products and technology. Due to the various technologies involved in the development of fuel cell systems, including membrane and MEA technologies, and PV products, it is impracticable for us to affirmatively identify and review all issued patents that may affect our products. Although we have no knowledge that our products and technology infringe any third party’s intellectual property rights, we cannot be sure that we do not infringe any third party’s intellectual property rights. We may have to participate in interference proceedings to determine the priority of invention and the right to a patent for the technology. Litigation and interference proceedings, even if they are successful, are expensive to pursue and time-consuming, and we could use a substantial amount of our financial resources in either case. The loss of any of our executive officers or the failure to attract or retain specialized technical and management personnel could impair our ability to grow our business. We are highly dependent on our executive officers, including Dustin M. Shindo, our Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Karl M. Taft III, our Chief Technology Officer. Due to the specialized knowledge that each of our executive officers possesses with respect to our technology or operations, the loss of service of any of our executive officers would harm our business. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers, and each may terminate his employment without notice and without cause or good reason. In addition, we do not carry key man life insurance on our executive officers. There is a limited pool of qualified applicants for our operations located in Hawaii capable of meeting our specialized needs. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified management and technical personnel, many of whom must be relocated from the continental United States or other countries. In addition, we will need to hire and train specialized engineers to manage and operate our planned polysilicon facility in Pocatello, Idaho. We may not be successful in hiring or retaining qualified personnel. Our inability to hire qualified personnel on a timely basis, or the departure of key employees, could harm our business. 21 We may have difficulty managing change in our operations, which could harm our business. We continue to undergo rapid change in the scope and breadth of our operations as we seek to grow our business. Our entry into the PV system installation and planned entry into the polysilicon markets involve a substantial change to our operations. Our potential growth has placed a significant strain on our senior management team and other resources. We will be required to make significant investments in our engineering, logistics, financial and management information systems. In particular, we currently have limited resources dedicated to sales and marketing activities and will need to expand our sales and marketing infrastructure to support our customers. Our entry into the PV installation business and planned entry into the polysilicon markets involves the construction of a polysilicon production facility, increased international activities, and the increase in our headcount and operating costs by a significant factor. Our business could be harmed if we encounter difficulties in effectively managing our planned growth. In addition, we may face difficulties in our ability to predict customer demands accurately, which could strain our support staff and our ability to meet those demands. We rely on limited suppliers and, if these suppliers fail to deliver materials that meet our quality requirements in a timely manner or at all, the installation of PV products and production of polysilicon would be limited. It is highly likely that we will procure materials for our PV system installation and our planned polysilicon businesses from companies that are also our competitors. These companies may choose in the future not to sell these materials to us at all, or may raise their prices to a level that would prevent us from selling our products on a profitable basis. We will use materials that are considered hazardous in our planned manufacturing and production processes and, therefore, we could be liable for environmental damages resulting from our research, development, or manufacturing and production operations. The production of polysilicon will involve the use of materials that are hazardous to human health and the environment, the storage, handling and disposal of which will be subject to government regulation. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may increase our research and development or manufacturing costs and may require us to halt or suspend our operations until we regain compliance. If we have an accident at our facility involving a spill or release of these substances, we may be subject to civil and/or criminal penalties, including financial penalties and damages, and possibly injunctions preventing us from continuing our operations. Any liability for penalties or damages, and any injunction resulting from damages to the environment or public health and safety, could harm our business. In addition under various Federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner or operator of real estate is liable for costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances on or in such property. These laws often impose such liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such substances. We do not have any insurance for liabilities arising from the use and handling of hazardous materials. Any significant and prolonged disruption of our operations in Hawaii could result in PV system installation delays that would reduce our revenue. Hoku Solar is currently located in Hawaii, which is subject to the potential risk of earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods and other natural disasters. The occurrence of an earthquake, hurricane, tsunami, flood or other natural disaster at or near our facility in Hawaii could result in damage, power outages and other disruptions that would interfere with our ability to conduct our business. In October 2006, Hawaii suffered a major earthquake causing significant damage throughout the state. Our facilities and operations; however, did not suffer any damage. Most of the materials we use must be delivered via air or sea, and some of the equipment used in our production process can only be delivered via sea. Hawaii has a large union presence and has historically experienced labor disputes, including dockworker strikes that have prevented or delayed cargo shipments. Any future dispute that delays shipments via air or sea could prevent us from procuring or installing our turnkey PV systems in time to meet our customers’ requirements, or might require us to seek alternative and more expensive freight forwarders or contract manufacturers, which could increase our expenses. We have significant international activities and customers that subject us to additional business risks, including increased logistical complexity and regulatory requirements, which could result in a decline in our revenue. We believe that international sales will account for a significant percentage of our revenue in the future. Hoku Materials’ largest polysilicon supply agreements are with Suntech, Sanyo, GEWD, and Solarfun which are located in The People’s Republic of China, Japan, Malaysia, and Hong Kong, respectively. International sales can be subject to many inherent risks that are difficult or impossible for us to predict or control, including: • political and economic instability; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and tariffs; • difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations, including foreign distributor relationships; • longer accounts receivable collection cycles in certain foreign countries; 22 • adverse economic or political changes; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • more limited protection for intellectual property in some countries; • potential trade restrictions, exchange controls and import and export licensing requirements; • U.S. and foreign government policy changes affecting the markets for our products; • problems in collecting accounts receivable; and • potentially adverse tax consequences of overlapping tax structures. All of our contracts are denominated in U.S. dollars except for our contract with GEC Graeber Engineering Consultants GmbH and MSA Apparatus Construction for Chemical Equipment Ltd. Therefore, increases in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar to foreign currencies will cause our products to become relatively more expensive to customers in those countries, which could lead to a reduction in sales or profitability in some cases. Our stock price is volatile and purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. Our stock price is volatile and during fiscal 2008, our stock has had closing low and high sales prices in the range of $4.07 to $14.19 per share. The stock market in general and the market for technology companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, including: • variations in our financial results or those of our competitors and our customers; • announcements by us, our competitors and our customers of acquisitions, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; • failure to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors with respect to our financial results; • our ability to develop and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis; • litigation; • changes in our management; • changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals; • future sales of our common stock by us and future sales of our common stock by our officers, directors and affiliates; • investors’ perceptions of us; and • general economic, industry and market conditions. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility and a decrease in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against the company. Class action litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Anti-takeover defenses that we have in place could prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to change our directors or management. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it more difficult for or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us without the approval of our Board of Directors. These provisions: • establish a classified Board of Directors, so that not all members of our Board of Directors may be elected at one time; • set limitations on the removal of directors; • limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and 23 • provide our Board of Directors the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our management team and may deprive investors of the opportunity to sell their shares to potential acquirers at a premium over prevailing prices. This potential inability to obtain a control premium could reduce the price of our common stock. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Our Board of Directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 