D Risk Factors An investment in our securities is speculative and involves a high degree of risk. Prospective investors should carefully consider, together with other matters referred to herein, the following risk factors. If any event arising from these risks occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related To Our Business We deal with products that are in the early stages of development and, as a result, are unable to predict whether we will be able to profitably commercialize our products. Since our incorporation in 1994, none of our products, licensed or owned, has received regulatory approval for sale in any major market country in which we have an economic interest in a product. Accordingly, we have not generated any significant revenues from the product sales. A substantial commitment of resources to conduct clinical trials and for additional product development will be required to commercialize most of the products. There can be no assurance that our remaining products will meet applicable regulatory standards, be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at reasonable cost or be successfully marketed, or that the investment made by us in the commercialization of the products will be recovered through sales, license fees or related royalties. - 7 - We have a lack of revenues and a history of losses and, therefore, are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when or if we will become profitable. For the year ended June 30, 2008, we recognized as revenue approximately $4.9 million from a number of licensing agreements including a January 2005 agreement with Shin Poong Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. to which we licensed the commercial rights for tesmilifene for the South Korean market; an August 2005 agreement with Kuhnil Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. to which the Company licensed the commercial rights for nimotuzumab for the South Korean market; an October 31, 2005 agreement with Innogene Kalbiotech Private Limited to which the Company licensed the commercial rights for nimotuzumab for several countries in Asia and Africa; a 2006 agreement with TTY BioPharm for Taiwan and a July 2006 agreement among our subsidiary CIMYM BioSciences, CIMAB and Daiichi Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. under which CIMYM licensed certain development and marketing rights for nimotuzumab in Japan. As at June 30, 2008, we have an accumulated deficit of $133.2 million. We expect expenditures and the accumulated deficit to increase as we proceed with our commercialization programs until such time as sales, license fees and royalty payments, if any, may generate sufficient revenues to fund our continuing operations. There can be no assurance that the revenues from the commercialization of our products will be sufficient to support required expenditures and therefore there can be no assurance of when or if we will become profitable. We depend upon being able to identify promising molecules for licensing or acquisition and successfully completing the acquisitions or licensing on economic terms. There is no assurance that we can continue to identify and license molecules for development. We do not conduct basic research of our own. Basic research on a particular drug product is conducted by biopharmaceutical companies, scientific and academic institutions and hospitals, or scientists affiliated with those institutions. Once the basic research is complete, we enter into agreements to in-license the right to develop and market the products or acquire them. We have negotiated certain in-licensing agreements with the University of Manitoba, CancerCare Manitoba, Vincent Research and Consulting, and CIMAB. In addition, AeroLEF® technology was developed at Dalhousie University. We depend upon others for the manufacture, development and sale of our products. If we are unable to establish or manage collaborations in the future, there could be a delay in the manufacture, development and sale of our products. We enter into arrangements, with and are dependent on others with respect to, the manufacture, development and sale of our in-licensed products. Product development includes, but is not limited to, pre-clinical testing, regulatory approval processes, clinical testing, and the development of additional regulatory and marketing information. Our ability to successfully develop and commercialize our in-licensed products is dependent on our ability to make arrangements with others on commercially acceptable terms. The product development process may be delayed or terminated if we cannot secure or maintain such arrangements on terms acceptable to us or at all. We do not have long-term material third party manufacturing, formulation or supply agreements, except with respect to one of our licensed products, nimotuzumab, which is manufactured in quantities sufficient for clinical testing by CIMAB or a related party, subject to certain terms and conditions of the licensing agreements between us and CIMAB and CIMAB has contracted to supply commercial quantities or will source such supply if, as and when approval for sale has been granted. The formulation of AeroLEF® is manufactured for us by Dalton Pharma Services in Toronto, Canada in quantities sufficient for clinical trials. YM has not yet identified an importer in the European Union to test, certify or release either clinical or commercial supplies. Tesmilifene was manufactured for us by Abraxis Bioscience Inc. Grand Island, NY, in quantities sufficient for clinical trials. - 8 - We expect to enter into out-licensing agreements with others with respect to the manufacturing and marketing of our drug products. We may retain co-development and marketing rights if management determines it appropriate to do so. On November 12, 2003, we entered into the first out-licensing agreement through our subsidiary, CIMYM Inc., an Ontario corporation, now CIMYM BioSciences Inc. On such date, CIMYM BioSciences out-licensed the rights for nimotuzumab in most of Europe to Oncoscience. Under the terms of the agreement, CIMYM BioSciences is entitled to receive up to US$30 million as a share of any amounts received by Oncoscience in relation to the development or sublicensing of the product and/or as a royalty on sales. Once CIMYM BioSciences has received US$30 million, CIMYM BioSciences will continue to receive royalties on net sales of nimotuzumab but at a lesser percentage. YM and CIMYM (Barbados) (now CIMYM BioSciences Inc.) entered into the second out-licensing agreement with Tarcanta and CIMAB relating to the licensing of TGFa and HER-1 to Tarcanta from CIMAB. CancerVax (now, Micromet Inc.) received a license from the US Department of Treasury authorizing Tarcanta to enter into the transactions with CIMAB and us. On July 13, 2004, the Corporation, CIMYM (Barbados), CIMAB and Tarcanta entered into a License, Development, Manufacturing and Supply Agreement. Under the terms of this agreement, the 2001 CIMYM License was suspended until such time that there was a default under the agreement with Tarcanta. Under the terms of the new agreement and in consideration for the suspension of the 2001 CIMYM License, we have received an aggregate payment of $1,000,000 paid in four equal instalments. On July 23, 2008, CIMAB terminated the license to Tarcanta and thus both the HER1 and TGFα license are returned to CIMYM. On July 25, 2006 CIMYM BioSciences and CIMAB licensed development and marketing rights in Japan for nimotuzumab to Daiichi Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (a wholly owned subsidiary of Daiichi Sankyo Company, Ltd., one of Japan’s largest pharmaceutical companies). Under the agreement, CIMYM received an up-front payment of $16.2M ($14.6 million net of withholding taxes) and is entitled to receive certain milestone payments at certain stages of development for each of a number of indications as well as payments based on supply of nimotuzumab and sales performance in several cancer indications. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining our relationships with research institutions or others or in negotiating additional in-licensing or out-licensing agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all, or that any such arrangements will be successful. In addition, there can be no assurance that other parties will not enter into arrangements with such entities for the development or commercialization of similar products or that the parties with whom we have made such arrangements will not pursue alternative technologies or develop products on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors. If we do not establish sufficient in-licensing and out-licensing arrangements, we may encounter delays in product introductions or may find that the development, manufacture or sale of our licensed products could be materially adversely affected. We have no experience in commercial manufacturing of our products and may encounter problems or delays in making arrangements for products to be commercially manufactured, which could result in delayed development, regulatory approval and marketing. We have not commercially launched any of our licensed or owned products and have no commercial manufacturing experience with respect to our products. To be successful, the products must be manufactured in commercial quantities in compliance with regulatory requirements and at acceptable costs. We do not have, and do not intend to acquire, facilities for the production of our products although we may invest in the ownership of production facilities if appropriate opportunities are available. - 9 - Nimotuzumab is expected to be manufactured in quantities sufficient for clinical testing by CIMAB or a related party, subject to certain terms and conditions of the licensing agreements between us and CIMAB. Currently these expectations are being met. There can be no assurance, however, that such entities will be able to develop adequate manufacturing capabilities for commercial scale quantities in a commercially reasonable manner. In addition, there are risks that we cannot control with it comes to the CIMAB manufacturing plant, such as weather, fire and other natural disasters. AeroLEF® (which is owned by us) is a combination of free and liposome-encapsulated fentanyl. The drug product is manufactured, finished and vials are filled in quantities sufficient for clinical testing. AeroLEF® is currently delivered through a patient-activated nebulizer known as AeroEclipse® and the devices are purchased by us to be used in clinical trials. The manufacturing processes for both AeroLef® drug product and the AeroEclipse® device are such that we expect that commercial quantities of both can be manufactured. If the current AeroLef® supplier cannot manufacture commercial quantities or we otherwise experience a problem with the current supplier, it will be necessary for us to obtain AeroLef® from a second supplier. The manufacture of AeroLef® has been successfully transferred to a second manufacturing source in the US which may provide clinical material as well as future commercial supply. We do not have supply agreements with the third party suppliers of AeroLEF®, but suppliers have produced quantities for us to specification on purchase order. We expect that we could find new suppliers for AeroLEF®, if necessary. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to reach satisfactory arrangements with our current suppliers or, if necessary, new suppliers or that such arrangements for either AeroLEF® or an alternative nebulizing device will be successful. The Company has not clinically tested any nebulizers appropriate for the out-patient market and it is not known whether any of the products in this category currently available could be purchased at an economic price or whether the combination of AeroLEF® in a portable electronic nebulizer would be safe or effective. All manufacturing facilities must comply with applicable regulations in their jurisdiction or where products are to be sold. In addition, production of the licensed and owned products may require raw materials for which the sources and amount of supply are limited. An inability to obtain adequate supplies of such raw materials could significantly delay the development, regulatory approval and marketing of our licensed and owned products. We are dependent on devices from third parties in order to successfully commercialize AeroLEF®. Third-party devices will be an important element for successful commercialization of AeroLEF® in both the inpatient and outpatient settings. We have selected the AeroEclipse® inhalation device for our Phase II clinical studies for the inpatient indications for AeroLEF® and anticipate using the AeroEclipse® for further clinical studies for the inpatient market opportunity. Material changes to the AeroEclipse® device by the manufacturer or a decision to switch to an alternative inhalation device would likely delay the initiation of later stage clinical trials. Switching after the initiation of Phase III studies, however, would require additional clinical trials and could significantly delay the commercialization of AeroLEF®. Currently YM purchases the AeroEclipse® and it does not have a defined supply agreement. While inpatient use of AeroLEF®, in the hospital or hospice setting, is accomplished with existing equipment such as the AeroEclipse®, outpatient use will require a portable nebulization device. Several devices currently exist and are otherwise approved for use with certain respiratory agents (bronchodilators, antibiotics, steroids). We have established criteria to evaluate and identify the best devices for use with AeroLEF®. Although we would prefer to access these devices on an arms-length basis from the manufacturer, we will explore the benefits of a strategic partnership that could provide for custom adaptations to optimize product delivery, lower prices or other benefits. The Drug Enforcement Administration limits the availability of the active ingredients in certain of our current drug candidates and, as a result, our quota may not be sufficient to complete clinical trials, or to meet commercial demand or may result in clinical delays. The DEA and similar opioid-regulating agencies of other countries regulate chemical compounds defined as Schedule I, II, III, IV and V substances, with Schedule I substances considered to present the highest risk of substance abuse and Schedule V substances the lowest risk. Certain active ingredients in AeroLEF®, such as fentanyl, are listed by the DEA as Schedule II under the Controlled Substances Act of 1970. Consequently, their manufacture, research, shipment, storage, sale and use are subject to a high degree of oversight and regulation. For example, all Schedule II drug prescriptions must be signed by a physician, physically presented to a pharmacist and may not be refilled without a new prescription. Further, the amount of Schedule II substances we can obtain for clinical trials and commercial distribution is limited by the DEA and our quota may not be sufficient to complete clinical trials or meet commercial demand. There is a risk that DEA regulations may interfere with the supply of the drugs used in our clinical trials, and, in the future, our ability to produce and distribute our products in the volume needed to meet commercial demand. Manufacturers for this product are limited because only those holding a DEA license to manufacture Schedule II compounds may be considered. - 10 - We are dependent on licenses from third parties and the maintenance of licenses is necessary for our success. We have obtained our rights to the licensed products under license agreements from various third party licensors as follows: (a) License Agreement between CIMAB and us dated May 3, 1995 as amended with respect to nimotuzumab; and (b) License Agreement between our Company, the University of Manitoba and The Manitoba Cancer Treatment and Research Foundation, carrying on its undertaking as CancerCare Manitoba, dated November 2, 2000 with respect to tesmilifene. As we own AeroLEF®, there are no license terms. We depend upon the license rights to the licensed products for commercialization of the licensed products. While we believe we are in compliance with our obligations under the licenses, certain licenses may be terminated or converted to non-exclusive licenses by the licensors if there is a breach of the terms of the licenses. There can be no assurance that the licenses are enforceable or will not be terminated or converted. The termination or conversion of the licenses or our inability to enforce our rights under the licenses would have a material adverse effect on our business as we would not have the rights to the products that we are developing. To the extent that management considers a particular license to be material to our undertaking, we have entered into a signed license agreement for that license. Terms of certain remaining licenses are to be determined at a later date. The in-license agreements to which we are currently a party require us to maintain and defend the patent rights that we in-license against third parties. Although our current licenses are governed by the laws of Ontario, the enforcement of certain of them may necessitate pursuing legal proceedings and obtaining orders in other jurisdictions, including the US and the Republic of Cuba. There can be no assurance that a court judgment or order obtained in one jurisdiction will be enforceable in another. In international venture undertakings it is standard practice to attorn to a neutral jurisdiction to seek remedy for unresolved commercial disputes. These arrangements are usually negotiated as part of the original business agreement. In the case of the license agreements with us, the parties have agreed that the law governing the agreements is Ontario law and the parties will attorn to the courts of Ontario or the Federal court of Canada to resolve any dispute regarding the agreements. One of our products is licensed from Cuba, a developing country. As is the case in many developing countries, the commercial and legal environment in Cuba is in a formative stage and may be subject to greater political risk. It is possible that we may not be able to enforce our legal rights in Cuba or against Cuban entities to the same extent that we would be able to do in a country with a more established commercial and legal system. Termination of our license arrangements or difficulties in enforcement of such arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue development of our licensed products from that country. We have a number of license agreements with CIMAB. CIMAB is a corporation owned by an institution of the Government of Cuba that purportedly operates at arms-length from the state bureaucracy with regard to its business, scientific and administrative decision-making. CIMAB is reportedly akin to a “crown corporation” in Canada. CIMAB’s management is purportedly both autonomous and responsible for the success of their business decisions. Despite the fact that CIMAB’s management is purportedly both autonomous and responsible for business decisions and that the license agreements with us declare Ontario law as the governing law, because of the fact that CIMAB is ultimately a state-owned entity, we will not necessarily be able to force CIMAB to comply with any judgment if CIMAB or the Government of Cuba refuses to comply. - 11 - We have advanced funds to our joint venture subsidiaries which we are only entitled to recover when the joint venture’s net income exceeds the amount of cumulative advances. YM and CIMAB entered into a funding agreement with CIMYM (now CIMYM BioSciences) in November 1995 (the “Funding Agreement”) in connection with the 1995 CIMYM License as amended. The Funding Agreement provides that we will arrange for the appropriate studies and clinical trials for the licensed products held by CIMYM BioSciences and will fund the cost of such studies and trials provided that doing so would not be commercially or scientifically unreasonable. Accordingly, we make the final determination as to whether or not a clinical trial expense is justified with respect to any given product. We are entitled to reimbursement of all advances made by us pursuant to the Funding Agreement, from the results of the successful development of the licensed products and generation of income. CIMYM BioSciences repays such advances out of a portion of its revenues in priority to eventual revenue or profit sharing arrangements under the 1995 CIMYM License. As at June 30, 2008, we have advanced $48.9 million to CIMYM BioSciences. Since we have expensed the total amount no further accounting for those advances would affect our balance sheet and any reimbursement of such advances would be considered to be income by us. We are reliant on licensors and others for research on new products. We do not conduct our own basic research with respect to the identification of new products. Instead, we rely upon research and development work conducted by others as a primary source for new products. While we expect that we will be able to continue to identify licensable products or research suitable for licensing and commercialization by us, there can be no assurance that this will occur. We conduct our development internationally and are subject to laws and regulations of several countries which may affect our ability to access regulatory agencies and may affect the enforceability and value of our licenses. Clinical trials on our products in development have been conducted by us and our sub-licensees in more than 20 countries including Canada, the United Kingdom, Japan, Germany, India, Russia and the US and we intend to, and may, conduct future clinical trials in these and other jurisdictions. There can be no assurance that any sovereign government, including Canada’s, will not establish laws or regulations that will be deleterious to our interests. There is no assurance that we, as a Canadian corporation, will continue to have access to the regulatory agencies in any jurisdiction where we might want to conduct clinical trials or obtain final regulatory approval, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to enforce our licenses in foreign jurisdictions. Governments have, from time to time, established foreign exchange controls which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, since such controls may limit our ability to flow funds into a particular country to meet our obligations under in-licensing agreements, and to flow funds which we may be entitled to, in the form of royalty and milestone payments, under out-licensing agreements out of a particular country In addition, the value of our licenses will depend upon the absence of punitive or prohibitive legislation in respect of biological materials. We also conduct our in-licensing internationally and we currently license products and technologies from sources in Canada and Cuba. We have previously licensed, and intend to and may license, products from sources in other jurisdictions. We have licensed nimotuzumab from CIMAB, a corporation representing a scientific organization in Cuba. The US has maintained an embargo against Cuba, administered by the US Department of Treasury. The laws and regulations establishing the embargo have been amended from time to time, most recently by the passage of the Cuban Liberty and Democratic Solidarity Act (the “Helms-Burton Act”). The embargo applies to almost all transactions involving Cuba or Cuban enterprises, and it bars from such transactions any US persons unless such persons obtain specific licenses from the US Department of Treasury authorizing their participation in the transactions. There is Canadian legislation (the Foreign Extraterritorial Measures Act) which provides generally that judgments against Canadian companies under the Helms-Burton Act will not be enforceable in Canada. The US embargo could have the effect of limiting our access to US capital, US financing, US customers and US suppliers. In particular, our products licensed from Cuban sources, noted above, are likely to be prohibited from sale in the US unless the US Department of Treasury issues a license or the embargo is lifted. - 12 - The Helms-Burton Act authorizes private lawsuits for damages against anyone who “traffics” in property confiscated, without compensation, by the Government of Cuba from persons who at the time were, or have since become, nationals of the US. We do not own any real property in Cuba and, to the best of our knowledge, and based upon the advice of the Cuban government, none of the properties of the scientific centers of the licensors in which the licensed products were developed and are or may be manufactured was confiscated by the Government of Cuba from persons who at the time were, or have since become, nationals of the US. However, there can be no assurance that this is correct. Risks Related To Our Financial Results And Need For Financing We expect to be a “passive foreign investment company” for the current taxable year, which would likely result in materially adverse US federal income tax consequences for US investors. We will be designated as a “passive foreign investment company” under the meaning of Section 1297 of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (a "PFIC") if (a) 75% or more of our gross income is “passive income” (generally, dividends, interest, rents, royalties, and gains from the disposition of assets producing passive income) in any taxable year, or (b) if at least 50% of the average value of our assets produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. US shareholders should be aware that we may have been a PFIC during one or more prior taxable years, and based on current business plans and financial projections, we expect to be a PFIC for the current taxable year. If we are designated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a US shareholder holds our common shares, it would likely result in materially adverse US federal income tax consequences for such US shareholder, including, but not limited to, any gain from the sale of our common shares would be taxed as ordinary income, as opposed to capital gain, and such gain and certain distributions on our common shares would be subject to an interest charge, except in certain circumstances. In addition, US Holders should be aware that there can be no assurances that the Company will satisfy the record keeping requirements that apply to a PFIC, or that the Company will supply US Holders with the information that such US Holders require to make certain elections available under the Code that are intended to mitigate the adverse tax consequences of the PFIC rules. The PFIC rules are extremely complex. A. US shareholder of our common shares is encouraged to consult a tax advisor regarding the PFIC Rules and the US federal income tax consequences of the acquisition, ownership, and disposition of our common shares. This discussion is qualified in its entirety by the section below entitled “Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations.” We may not be able to obtain necessary funding from sales or license fees or royalties and, as a result, may need to try to obtain capital through the public market or private financing which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. We will require additional funding for the commercialization of our products, licensed and owned, and if new products are licensed or acquired and put into development. The amount of additional funding required depends on the status of each project or new opportunity at any given time. Our business strategy is to in-license rights to promising products, further develop those products by progressing the products toward regulatory approval by conducting and managing clinical trials, and finally to out-license rights to manufacture and/or market resulting products to other pharmaceutical firms generally in exchange for royalties and license fees. Due to the in- and out-licensing arrangements and our dependence on others for the manufacture, development and sale of our in-licensed products, we do not have consistent monthly or quarterly expenditures and cannot determine the amount and timing of required additional funding with any certainty. As at June 30, 2008 we had cash and short-term deposits totalling $58.1 million and accounts payables and accrued liabilities of $2.0 million. We assess our additional funding needs on a project-by-project basis from time-to-time. To the extent that we are unable to fund our expenditures from sales, license fees and royalties, it will be necessary to reconsider whether to continue existing projects or enter into new projects, or to access either the public markets or private financings if conditions permit. In addition, we have no established bank financing arrangements and there can be no assurance that we will be able to establish such arrangements on satisfactory terms or at all. Such financing, if required and completed, may have a dilutive effect on the holders of our common shares. There is no assurance that such financing will be available if required or that it will be available on favorable terms. - 13 - Our operating results and stock price may fluctuate significantly. The trading price of our common shares, as with many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, has historically been and is likely to remain highly volatile. The market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Factors such as the efficacy and safety of our products or the products of our competitors, announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors, governmental regulations, developments in our patents or other proprietary rights, our licensors or our competitors, litigation, fluctuations in our operating results, thin capitalization, market conditions for biopharmaceutical stocks and general market and economic conditions could have a significant impact on the future trading price of our common shares. In addition, the price of our common shares is highly volatile since it may take years before any of our licensed products will receive final regulatory approval to be marketed in Canada, the US or other territories, if at all. There is no assurance that an active trading market in our common shares will be sustained. Our common shares are listed for trading on the TSX, AMEX and AIM. However, there can be no assurance that an active trading market in our common shares on these stock exchanges will be sustained. Risks Related To Our Industry If our pre-clinical and clinical testing of drug products do not produce successful results, we will not be able to commercialize our products. Each of our products, licensed or owned, must be subjected to additional pre-clinical and/or clinical testing in order to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our products in humans. Our ability to commercialize our products will depend on the success of currently ongoing pre-clinical and clinical trials and subsequent pre-clinical and clinical trials that have not yet begun. We are not able to predict the results of pre-clinical and clinical testing of our drug products. It is not possible to predict, based on studies or testing in laboratory conditions or in animals, whether a drug product will prove to be safe or effective in humans. Further, preclinical data may not be sufficient for regulators to accept positive clinical data for approval to commercialize a product. In addition, success in one stage of testing is not necessarily an indication that the particular drug product will succeed in later stages of testing and development. There can be no assurance that the pre-clinical or clinical testing of our products will yield satisfactory results that will enable us to progress toward commercialization of such products. Unsatisfactory results may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations as they could result in us having to reduce or abandon future testing or commercialization of particular drug products. If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective than our existing product candidates or any products that we may develop, or obtain marketing approval before we do, our products may be rendered obsolete or uncompetitive. Technological competition from pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies and universities is intense and is expected to increase. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater product development capabilities and financial, scientific, marketing and human resources than we have. Our future success depends in part on our ability to maintain a competitive position, including our ability to further progress our products, licensed or owned, through the necessary pre-clinical and clinical trials towards regulatory approval for sale and commercialization. Other companies may succeed in commercializing products earlier than we are able to commercialize our products or they may succeed in developing products that are more effective than our products. We consider our main competitors to be: Amgen, AstraZeneca, BMS, Roche, Genentech, Genmab, ImClone, Merck and OSI with respect to nimotuzumab. The main competitors, to our knowledge, for the AeroLEF® product are Cephalon, Inc., Endo Pharmaceuticals Holdings Inc., Akela Inc., Alexza Molecular Delivery Corporation, Javelin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (formerly IDDS, Inc.), Barr Pharmaceuticals, Inc., CeNeS Pharmaceuticals plc and Alza Corporation. - 14 - Our success depends in part on developing and maintaining a competitive position in the development and commercialization of our products, licensed or owned, and technological capabilities in our areas of expertise. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are subject to rapid and substantial technological change. While we will seek to expand our technological capabilities in order to remain competitive, there can be no assurance that developments by others will not render our products non-competitive or that we or our licensors will be able to keep pace with technological developments. Competitors have developed technologies that could be the basis for competitive products. Some of those products may have an entirely different approach or means of accomplishing the desired therapeutic effect than our products and may be more effective or less costly than our products. In addition, other forms of medical treatment may offer competition to the products. The success of our competitors and their products and technologies relative to our technological capabilities and competitiveness could have a material adverse effect on the future pre-clinical and clinical trials of our products, including our ability to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for the conduct of such trials. We are subject to extensive government regulation that increases the cost and uncertainty associated with gaining final regulatory approval of our product candidates. Securing final regulatory approval for the manufacture and sale of human therapeutic products in Canada and our other markets, including the US, is a long and costly process that is controlled by that particular country’s national regulatory agency. The national regulatory agency in Canada is Health Canada, in Europe it is the EMEA and in the US it is the FDA. Other national regulatory agencies have similar regulatory approval processes, but each is different. Approval in Canada, Europe, or the US does not assure approval by other national regulatory agencies, although often test results from one country may be used in applications for regulatory approval in another country. Prior to obtaining final regulatory approval to market a drug product, every national regulatory agency has a variety of statutes and regulations which govern the principal development activities. These laws require controlled research and testing of products, government review and approval of a submission containing pre-clinical and clinical data establishing the safety and efficacy of the product for each use sought, approval of manufacturing facilities including adherence to good manufacturing practices during production and storage, and control of marketing activities, including advertising and labelling. None of our products have been completely developed or tested and, therefore, we are not yet in a position to seek final regulatory approval to market any of our products. To date we have obtained various regulatory clearances to develop and test our products. Nimotuzumab has been cleared for testing in the US, Canada, Europe, Japan, Korea, and Indonesia/Malaysia/Singapore and has been designated as an orphan drug for certain indications in Europe and the US. It is in Phase II and III trials in certain of those territories. Trials of AeroLEF® have concluded a Phase I, IIa and IIb in Canada, a Phase II has been cleared for initiation in the US and a Phase III is currently being designed. Nimotuzumab, which is being developed in Canada, the US, Europe, Japan, Korea, certain African countries and Southeast Asian countries sub-licensed by YM is also being separately developed or tested in Argentina, China, Colombia, Cuba, India, and Peru, amongst others. The US established an embargo against Cuba in 1961, reinforced by the Helms-Burton Act in 1996, and Cuba is among several nations which have been identified by the US Department of State as being a state sponsoring terrorism. As such the US Government has put in place certain limitations on conduct of business with Cuba and anti-terrorism legislation against Cuba. Although as of the date of this filing such anti-terrorism controls have not had any adverse effect on our operations, because of the anti-terrorism controls and the Helms-Burton Act there is no assurance that the Company will be able to complete clinical testing in the US or obtain final regulatory approval in order to successfully commercialize our nimotuzumab in the US. We were successful in September 2006 in our application for a Special License to import nimotuzumab for a clinical trial in the US and received clearance for this trial from the FDA in certain of these territories following the fiscal 2007 year end. - 15 - There can be no assurance that the licensed products will be successfully commercialized. The process of completing clinical testing and obtaining final regulatory approval to market the licensed products is likely to take a number of years for most of the licensed products and require the expenditure of substantial resources. Any failure to obtain, or a delay in obtaining, such approvals could adversely affect our ability to develop the product and delay commercialization of the product. Further, there can be no assurance that our licensed products will prove to be safe and effective in clinical trials under the standards of the regulations in our territories or receive applicable regulatory approvals from applicable regulatory bodies. Changes in government regulations although beyond our control could have an adverse effect on our business. We have, or have had, licenses with, or clinical trials at, various academic organizations, hospitals and companies in Canada, Cuba, Italy, Japan, Korea, Germany, the US and the United Kingdom and numerous other countries and we depend upon the validity of our licenses and access to the data for the timely completion of clinical research in those jurisdictions. Any changes in the drug development regulatory environment or shifts in political attitudes of a government are beyond our control and may adversely affect our business. Our business may also be affected in varying degrees by such factors as government regulations with respect to intellectual property, regulation or export controls. Such changes remain beyond our control and the effect of any such changes cannot be predicted. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our ability to further develop our licensed products. Risks Related To Intellectual Property And Litigation Our success depends upon our ability to protect our intellectual property and our proprietary technology. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability and our licensors’ ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secrets protection, and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties or having third parties circumvent our rights. Certain licensors and the institutions that they represent, and in certain cases, us on behalf of the licensors and the institutions that they represent, have filed and are actively pursuing certain applications for Canadian and foreign patents. The patent position of pharmaceutical and biotechnology firms is uncertain and involves complex legal and financial questions for which, in some cases, certain important legal principles remain unresolved. There can be no assurance that the patent applications made in respect of the owned or licensed products will result in the issuance of patents, that the term of a patent will be extendable after it expires in due course, that the licensors or the institutions that they represent will develop additional proprietary products that are patentable, that any patent issued to the licensors or us will provide us with any competitive advantages, that the patents of others will not impede our ability to do business or that third parties will not be able to circumvent or successfully challenge the patents obtained in respect of the licensed products. The cost of obtaining and maintaining patents is high. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop similar products which duplicate any of the licensed products, or, if patents are issued, design around the patent for the product. There can be no assurance that our processes or products or those of our licensors do not or will not infringe upon the patents of third parties, or that the scope of our patents or those of our licensors will successfully prevent third parties from developing similar and competitive products. Much of our know-how and technology may not be patentable, though they may constitute trade secrets. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets. To help protect our intellectual property rights and proprietary technology we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. There can be no assurance that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure. We maintain patents in connection with nimotuzumab, AeroLEF® and tesmilifene. The following is a description of our key current and pending patents in connection with these drug products. - 16 - Nimotuzumab CIMYM is the exclusive licensee for particular territories including the US under a patent estate that includes composition of matter coverage for nimotuzumab, and further includes coverage for nimotuzumab-based formulations and end-uses in the treatment of EGFr-dependent cancers. Patents are granted in the US, Europe, Japan, and Canada. CIMYM’s key US patent, US 5,891,996 expires in November 2015, and term extensions of up to five years may be available under the Patent Term Restoration Act. The same term and extension apply also to the key European patent, EP 712863. There may also be risks related to nimotuzumab as our license originates from Cuba. Cuba is a formally socialist country and, under the current patent law, ownership of the inventions of the Cuban inventors for which patent applications have been filed rests with the State. The material license agreement for our Cuban sourced products is a license agreement between us and CIMAB, dated May 3, 1995, as amended, with respect to nimotuzumab. There is no guarantee that, with any future changes in the political regime, the Cuban government would continue to honour such a license agreement. AeroLEF® The AeroLEF® product is described in four patent families. We own key patents, expiring in 2014, claiming a method of administering systemic analgesia by inhaling free and liposome-encapsulated opioid analgesic. North American coverage includes a reissued US patent and a Canadian patent. We own two US applications with counterpart PCT applications, expiring in 2024, claiming the formulation for use in a method comprised of continuously inhaling the formulation to deposit at least one rapid-onset opioid and one sustained-effect opioid in the lungs to avoid the onset of side effects. A pending PCT application entitled “Stable Compositions” claims the manufacturing method and other physical characteristics of the formulation. Tesmilifene We are the exclusive licensee to patents and patent applications from the University of Manitoba for tesmilifene. Patents that claim the use of tesmilifene in combination with chemotherapeutic agents have been issued in the US, Europe, Japan, Canada and Australia. US patent 5,859,065 broadly claims the use of tesmilifene and structurally related analogs in combination with any chemotherapeutic agent for the treatment of any cancer. Although the twenty-year term of this patent expires in December 2010, we may take full advantage of patent terms extensions of up to five additional years granted under the Patent Term Restoration Act in the US. Other issued patents US 6,284,799 and US 5,747,543 expire in 2014 and 2015 respectively. In addition to these granted patents, patent applications relevant to the use of tesmilifene in neoadjuvant treatment are pending. In addition to patent protection, we intend to rely upon the available term of data exclusivity in the US and other countries for NCEs. Furthermore, full advantage will be taken, if required by us, of the Orange Book provisions in the US and equivalent provision in Canada and other countries, as a means for delaying generic competition. Our potential involvement in intellectual property litigation could negatively affect our business. Our future success and competitive position depend in part upon our ability to maintain our intellectual property portfolio. There can be no assurance that any patents will be issued on any existing or future patent applications. Even if such patents are issued, there can be no assurance that any patents issued or licensed to us will not be challenged. Our ability to establish and maintain a competitive position may be achieved in part by prosecuting claims against others who we believe are infringing our rights and by defending claims brought by others who believe that we are infringing their rights. In addition, enforcement of our patents in foreign jurisdictions will depend on the legal procedures in those jurisdictions. Even if such claims are found to be invalid, our involvement in intellectual property litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to out-license any products that are the subject of such litigation. In addition, our involvement in intellectual property litigation could result in significant expense, which could materially adversely affect the use or licensing of related intellectual property and divert the efforts of our valuable technical and management personnel from their principal responsibilities, whether or not such litigation is resolved in our favor. - 17 - Product liability claims are an inherent risk of our business, and if our clinical trial and product liability insurance prove inadequate, product liability claims may harm our business. Human therapeutic products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims and associated adverse publicity. We currently maintain clinical trial liability insurance with an ultimate net loss value of up to $10 million per claim and a policy aggregate of $10 million (except for AeroLEF which has a limit of $5 million per claim and a policy aggregate of $5 million). We currently have no other product liability insurance and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain product liability insurance on acceptable terms or with adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Such insurance is expensive, difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. An inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage on reasonable terms or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on our business by preventing or inhibiting the commercialization of our products, licensed and owned, if a product is withdrawn or a product liability claim is brought against us. Risks Related To Being A Canadian Entity We are governed by the corporate laws in Nova Scotia, Canada which in some cases have a different effect on shareholders than the corporate laws in Delaware, US. The material differences between the Nova Scotia Companies Act (the “NSCA”) as compared to the Delaware General Corporation Law (“DGCL”) which may be of most interest to shareholders include the following: (i) for material corporate transactions (such as amalgamations, other extraordinary corporate transactions, amendments to the memorandum of association and amendments to the articles of association) the NSCA generally requires three-quarter majority vote by shareholders which in most instances requires a confirmatory resolution by a majority of the shareholders (and, in addition, especially where the holders of a class of shares is being affected differently from others, approval will be required by holders of two-thirds of the shares of such class voting in a meeting called for the purpose), whereas DGCL generally only requires a majority vote of shareholders for similar material corporate transactions; (ii) quorum for shareholders meetings is not prescribed under the NSCA and is only 5% under our articles of association, whereas under DGCL, quorum requires the holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote to be present; and (iii) our articles of association require a special resolution and the Corporations Miscellaneous Provisions Act (Nova Scotia) requires three-quarters of all shareholders entitled to vote to pass a resolution for one or more directors to be removed, whereas DGCL only requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the shareholders. Item 