ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We have a limited operating history, and have recently determined to enter the photovoltaic installations and polysilicon markets and scale back our efforts in the fuel cell market. If we are unable to generate significant revenue, our business will be harmed. We were incorporated in March 2001 and have a limited operating history. We have cumulative net losses since our inception through fiscal 2007. Hoku Materials and Hoku Solar do not currently generate any revenue and our revenue from Hoku Fuel Cells is limited to our contract with the U.S. Navy which we expect to complete by August 2007. Our planned entry into the polysilicon market will require us to spend significant additional amounts to support the construction of a facility to manufacture polysilicon, to purchase capital equipment, to fund new sales and marketing efforts, to pay for additional operating costs, and to significantly increase our headcount. In fiscal 2007, we reorganized our business into three business units: Hoku Materials, Hoku Solar and Hoku Fuel Cells to support our entry into these new markets. In February and March 2007, we incorporated Hoku Materials, Inc. and Hoku Solar, Inc., respectively, as wholly-owned subsidiaries. To date, our fuel cell customers have not commercially deployed products incorporating our Hoku MEAs or Hoku Membranes, and we have not sold any products commercially. Although we have had prior fuel cell testing agreements with Sanyo Electric Co., Ltd., or Sanyo, and Nissan Motor Co. Ltd., or Nissan, these agreements have ended and neither Sanyo nor Nissan has purchased our products since their contracts ended. There were no purchases of our fuel cell products during the three months ended March 31, 2007. Sanyo and Nissan may require additional testing of our Hoku Membrane and Hoku MEA products before purchasing commercial quantities of our products. We cannot predict when such sales will occur, if at all. In addition, at this time, we do not believe we will receive any meaningful fuel cell revenue from Sanyo or Nissan in the foreseeable future. Based on discussions with potential customers for our Hoku MEAs and Hoku Membranes during fiscal 2007, including Sanyo and Nissan, we determined that the potential for future revenue opportunities from our Hoku Fuel Cells division is uncertain. We also believe that our competitors our experiencing similar challenges. As a result we have significantly scaled back our expenditures and investments in Hoku Fuel Cells, and have focused increasingly on Hoku Solar and Hoku Materials. We are not currently seeking new fuel cell customers to test our products and in December 2006, we wrote down certain equipment used in our fuel cell business and we executed a reduction-in-force within the Hoku Fuel Cells division. We commenced construction of our planned polysilicon production facility in Pocatello, Idaho in May 2007, and expect to complete construction subject to available financing and other conditions in late 2008. As a result we expect our costs to increase significantly, 19 Table of Contents which will result in further losses on a quarterly or annual basis, before we can begin to generate significant revenue from our Hoku Solar and Hoku Materials divisions. If we are unable to generate significant revenue and achieve profitability, we will not be able to sustain our operations. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past, and we expect a number of factors to cause our operating results to fluctuate in the future, making it difficult for us to accurately forecast our quarterly and annual operating results. We are the prime contractor in a U.S. Navy fuel cell demonstration project that is expected to conclude in August 2007 and we expect to recognize the remaining $1.3 million of revenue under this contract in the first and second quarters of fiscal 2008. Although we anticipate PV system installations beginning in the second half of calendar year 2007, in the near term, we have limited sources of revenue. In December 2006, we became a licensed electrical contractor in the State of Hawaii, and plan to install PV systems in Hawaii. In May 2007, Hawaiian Electric Company selected us to enter into negotiations for the installation of a 167 kW, PV system and our sale to Hawaii Electric Company of the power generated by that system over a 20-year period. Our future operating results and cash flows will depend on many factors that impact Hoku Materials, Hoku Solar and Hoku Fuel Cells, including the following: • the size and timing of customer orders, milestone achievement, product delivery and customer acceptance, if required; • our success in obtaining pre-payments from customers for future shipments of polysilicon; • our success in maintaining and enhancing existing strategic relationships and developing new strategic relationships with potential customers; • our ability to protect our intellectual property; • actions taken by our competitors, including new product introductions and pricing changes; • the costs of maintaining and expanding our operations; • customer budget cycles and changes in these budget cycles; and • external economic and industry conditions. As a result of these factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. If we are unable to obtain the necessary initial financing, government permits, supply contracts and licenses to intellectual property required to begin construction of polysilicon manufacturing capabilities we will not be able to form a polysilicon business. In May 2006, we announced our intention to form a polysilicon business as part of an integrated PV module business to complement our fuel cell business. This planned expansion includes developing manufacturing capabilities and the eventual planned manufacture of polysilicon. To date, our business has solely been focused on the stationary and automotive fuel cell markets and we have no experience in the polysilicon business. In order to be successful we will need to devote substantial management time, resources and funds to this planned expansion. In March 2007, we entered into a 99-year ground lease with the City of Pocatello, for approximately 67 acres of land in Pocatello, Idaho. We intend to manufacture polysilicon chunks at our planned polysilicon production facility in Idaho and expect to complete construction in late 2008. In May 2007, we commenced construction. We have engaged VECO USA, Inc. to provide engineering, procurement and construction services for the polysilicon plant. If VECO USA does not perform as expected, our efforts to construct our polysilicon plant could be delayed and we could incur additional expenses. We are at an early planning stage of this expansion and at any point in time we may conclude that such expansion is not financially or technologically feasible and abandon our efforts to establish a polysilicon business. Such abandonment after substantial investment of time and resources could harm our business. 20 Table of Contents Before we can complete construction of our planned polysilicon manufacturing facility we must successfully and timely accomplish the following: • raise more than $260 million cash through the issuance of long-term bank debt, the issuance of equity securities, or polysilicon customer prepayments, or any combination thereof; • enter into key contracts with building engineers, contractors and suppliers; • license any intellectual property that may be required to manufacture polysilicon; • secure key supplier contracts for the materials required to manufacture polysilicon; and • obtain all necessary federal, state and local permits for our planned facility in Pocatello, Idaho. If we fail to successfully achieve any or all of the above objectives, we will be unable to complete construction of our planned manufacturing facility and we may be forced to delay, alter or abandon our planned expansion. In addition, any delay in achieving these objectives may result in additional expense which would harm our business. We need to raise more than $260 million to construct and equip our planned facility in Pocatello, Idaho, and we may be unable to raise this additional capital on favorable terms or at all. To construct a polysilicon manufacturing facility with an annual capacity of 2,000 metric tons of polysilicon, we estimate that we would need to raise approximately $260 million to fund the construction, and to purchase capital equipment for the manufacture of polysilicon. As we recently announced our plans to increase the size of our polysilicon manufacturing facility by up to 1,000 additional metric tons of annual capacity, we have not been able to determine the total construction cost or cash needs at this time; however we will need to raise this amount and we may need to raise additional funds in the future to support the growth of Hoku Solar and Hoku Materials. Through our contracts with Sanyo Electric Co., Ltd., Suntech Power Holdings Co., Ltd., and Global Expertise Wafer Division Ltd., we have secured advance payment commitments of up to an aggregate of approximately $211 million if we achieve certain production, quality and process milestones in each of our respective contracts. In addition, we plan to finance a significant portion of our polysilicon plant construction costs through debt financing or issuances of equity securities. However, we have invested our own cash resources into this project and expect that we will continue to do so in advance of obtaining the debt or equity. If we are unable to raise the funds, then we will not be able to enter the polysilicon market in accordance with our current plans, and our customers may cancel their contracts with us. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our current stockholders may be reduced. If we raise additional funds for these businesses through the issuance of term debt or convertible debt securities, these instruments could have rights senior to those of our common stock and could contain covenants that would restrict our operations. If our supply agreement with Sanyo Electric Company, Ltd., is terminated for any reason our business will be harmed. In January 2007, we entered into a supply agreement with Sanyo for the sale and delivery of polysilicon to Sanyo over a seven-year period beginning in January 2009, or the Sanyo Supply Agreement. In May 2007, we amended the Sanyo Supply Agreement. Under the Sanyo Supply Agreement, up to approximately $370 million may be payable to us during the seven-year period, subject to the achievement of milestones, the acceptance of product deliveries and other conditions. The Sanyo Supply Agreement provides for the delivery of predetermined volumes of polysilicon to Sanyo each year at set prices from January 2009 through December 2015. Pursuant to the Sanyo Supply Agreement, we granted Sanyo a security interest in all of the tangible and intangible assets related to Hoku Materials and all our equity interests in Hoku Materials, to serve as collateral for our obligations under the agreement. 21 Table of Contents Each party may elect to terminate the Sanyo Supply Agreement prior to December 2015 under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to: • if we fail to secure financing by October 17, 2007 of at least $100 million in gross aggregate proceeds from long-term bank debt, the issuance of equity securities or customer prepayments, or the combination thereof; • the bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors or liquidation of the other party; • or a material breach of the other party. Sanyo may also terminate the agreement for the following material breaches: • if we fail to deliver a predetermined quantity of the our manufactured product by March 2009; • if we fail to deliver the minimum monthly quantity of product in any month beginning in March 2009; • if we fail to deliver the minimum annual quantity of polysilicon product in any year; or • if we fail to complete successfully any of the polysilicon quality and production volume tests or the process implementation test set forth in the agreement within specified periods of time. If our supply agreement with Suntech Power Holdings Co., Ltd. is terminated for any reason our business will be harmed. In June 2007, we entered into a supply agreement with Suntech for the sale and delivery of polysilicon to Suntech over a ten-year period beginning in July 2009, or the Suntech Supply Agreement. Under the Suntech Supply Agreement, up to approximately $678 million may be payable to us during the ten-year period, subject to the achievement of milestones, the acceptance of product deliveries and other conditions. The Suntech Supply Agreement provides for the delivery of predetermined volumes of polysilicon by us and purchase of these volumes by Suntech each month and each year at set prices from or before July 1, 2009, for a continuous period of ten years. The term of the Suntech Supply Agreement is ten years from the date of the first shipment in 2009, which is approximately July 1, 2019. Each party, however, may elect to shorten the term of the Suntech Supply Agreement to seven years by providing written notice to the other party at any time prior to the end of the fourth year after the first shipment. If the term of the Suntech Supply Agreement is shortened to seven years, then the aggregate amount that may be payable to us for product shipments during the seven year period shall be reduced to $378 million. Each party may elect to terminate the Suntech Supply Agreement under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to: • if we fail to secure financing by March 31, 2008 of at least $100 million in gross aggregate proceeds from debt or the issuance of equity securities; • the bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors or liquidation of the other party; or • a material breach of the other party. Suntech may also terminate the agreement for the following material breaches: • if we fail to deliver a predetermined quantity of the our manufactured product by December 2009; or • if we fail to complete successfully any of the polysilicon quality and production volume tests or the process implementation test set forth in the agreement within specified periods of time. 22 Table of Contents If our supply agreement with Global Expertise Wafer Division Ltd. is terminated for any reason our business will be harmed. In June 2007, we entered into a supply agreement with GEWD, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Solar-Fabrik AG, for the sale and delivery of polysilicon to GEWD over a seven-year period beginning in December 2009, or the GEWD Supply Agreement. Under the GEWD Supply Agreement, up to approximately $185 million may be payable to us during the seven-year period, subject to the achievement of milestones, the acceptance of product deliveries and other conditions. The GEWD Supply Agreement provides for the delivery of predetermined volumes of polysilicon by us and purchase of these volumes by GEWD each month and each year at set prices from or before December 31, 2009, for a continuous period of seven years. Under the GEWD Supply Agreement, GEWD shall deliver to us a $25 million bank letter of credit on or before June 30, 2007, and an additional $26 million bank letter of credit on or before September 30, 2007. If GEWD does not provide the $25 million letter of credit on or before June 30, 2007, then we may terminate the agreement and retain the $2 million initial direct deposit. If GEWD provides the $25 million letter of credit on or before June 30, 2007, but does not provide the additional $26 million letter of credit on our before September 30, 2007, then we may reduce the predetermined volume of polysilicon and increase the predetermined price under the agreement. Each party may elect to terminate the GEWD Supply Agreement under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to: • if we fail to secure the financing by March 31, 2008; • the bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors or liquidation of the other party; or • a material breach of the other party. GEWD may also terminate the agreement for the following material breaches: • if we fail to deliver a predetermined quantity of the our manufactured product by December 31, 2009; or • if the financing exceeds $185 million for the 2,000 metric ton annual capacity polysilicon manufacturing facility, plus reasonable additional debt to finance additional capacity. If the supply agreements with Sanyo, Suntech or GEWD are terminated for any reason our business will be harmed. If Graeber Engineering Consultants GmbH, MSA Apparatus Construction for Chemical Equipment Ltd. or Idaho Power Company fail to perform under our contracts on a timely basis we will experience delays in the commencement of polysilicon production at our planned Pocatello, Idaho facility. In January 2007, we entered into an agreement with Graeber Engineering Consultants GmbH, or GEC, and MSA Apparatus Construction for Chemical Equipment Ltd., or MSA, for the purchase of hydrogen reduction reactors and hydrogenation reactors for the production of polysilicon, and related engineering and installation services. Under the contract, we will pay up to a total of 15.7 million Euros ($20.6 million as of March 31, 2007) for the reactors. The reactors are designed and engineered to produce approximately 1,500 metric tons of polysilicon per year. We have an option to purchase additional reactors to enable the production of an additional 500 metric tons of polysilicon per year for an additional 5.2 million Euros ($6.9 million as of March 31, 2007). In May 2007, we paid GEC and MSA $4.2 million for the initial deposit of 15% for hydrogen reduction reactors capable of producing 2,000 metric tons of polysilicon per year. The payment of this initial deposit begins the 15 month delivery deadline for equipment capable of producing 1,500 metric tons of polysilicon per year, with the equipment for an additional 500 metric tons per year being delivered within three months after the first delivery. In June 2007, we entered into an Agreement for Engineering of Hoku Electric Substation and Associated Facilities, or the Engineering Agreement, with Idaho Power Company to begin the engineering and procurement 23 Table of Contents process for the electric substation to provide power for the planned polysilicon manufacturing facility in Pocatello, Idaho. Upon signing the Engineering Agreement, we paid Idaho Power Company $458,500, and we are obligated to pay an additional $458,500 on September 15, 2007 after receipt of a progress report and single-line electrical drawings of the planned electrical infrastructure. If GEC, MSA or Idaho Power Company fail to perform on a timely basis under their respective agreements then we will not be able to commence production of polysilicon at our planned polysilicon production facility on our current schedule. If we are required to seek an alternative supplier of the reactors or electric substation our costs could increase and we would experience further delays. Any delays may result in a breach of our supply agreements with Sanyo, Suntech and GEWD which may allow them to terminate the supply agreements, which would harm our business. If we are unable to sell our solar module manufacturing equipment and solar cells at our purchase cost or at all we may incur significant losses. In October 2006, we entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement with Spire Corporation to purchase a photovoltaic module production line and related installation and training for approximately $2.0 million. In June 2007, the parties amended the Purchase and Sale Agreement to reduce the total purchase price by $125,000, and to eliminate Spire Corporation’s obligation to provide installation and training services to us. We are required to take delivery of the solar module manufacturing equipment located at manufacturing facilities in Bedford, Massachusetts and Okazaki, Japan; and Spire Corporation will attempt to resell the module manufacturing equipment for us. In October 2006, we also entered into a contract to purchase solar cells manufactured in Taiwan from E-Ton Solar Tech Co., Ltd. for approximately $2.8 million. If we are unable to sell the equipment and solar cells or sell the equipment and solar cells for less than our purchase price, we will record a loss due to the impairment of the assets or on the sale of assets. Even if we achieve our polysilicon and PV system installation objectives on a timely basis and complete the construction of polysilicon manufacturing facility as currently planned, we may still be unsuccessful in developing, manufacturing and/or selling these products and services, which would harm our business. If we are successful in our efforts to construct manufacturing facility for the production of polysilicon, our ability to successfully compete in the polysilicon and PV system installation markets will depend on a number of factors, including: • our ability to manufacture polysilicon and purchase PV modules at a cost that allows us to achieve or maintain profitability in these businesses; • our ability to successfully manage a much larger and growing enterprise, with a broader international presence; • our ability to attract and expand new customer relationships; • our ability to develop new technologies to become competitive through cost reductions and improvements in solar radiation conversion efficiencies; • our ability to scale our business to be competitive; • future product liability or warranty claims; and • our ability to compete with in a highly competitive market against companies that have greater resources, longer operating histories and larger market share than we do. Industry-wide shortages or overcapacity in the production of polysilicon could harm our business. Polysilicon is an essential raw material in the production of photovoltaic, or solar, cells, which are connected together to make modules. Polysilicon is created by refining quartz or sand, and is typically supplied to PV cell 24 Table of Contents and module manufacturers in the form of silicon ingots that are sliced into wafers, or as pre-sliced wafers. Industry-wide shortages of polysilicon have created shortages of PV modules and increased prices. We do not currently have any contracts to purchase PV modules. Our inability to obtain sufficient modules at commercially reasonable prices or at all would adversely affect our ability to commence installation of PV module products in 2007, and prevent us from meeting potential customer demand for our products or to provide products at competitive prices, and may delay our entry into the PV installations business, thereby harming our business. In light of these shortages, certain polysilicon producers have announced plans to invest heavily in the expansion of their production capacities in view of the current scarcity of solar-grade silicon, strong demand and the expected strong market growth. We currently expect significant additional capacity to come on-line in 2008, before our planned production of polysilicon will begin. This expansion of production capacities could result in an excess supply of solar-grade silicon. In addition, if an excess supply of electronic-grade silicon were to develop, producers of electronic-grade silicon could switch production to solar-grade silicon, eliminating the current scarcity of solar-grade silicon or causing it to decline more rapidly than we currently anticipate. The electronic-grade silicon market has experienced significant cyclicality historically; for instance, that market experienced significant excess supply from 1998 through 2003. Moreover, the current scarcity of silicon could also be overcome in the medium term if the need for silicon is significantly reduced as a result of the introduction of new technologies that significantly reduce or eliminate the need for silicon in producing effective PV systems. If any of these events occurred, they could lead to considerable pressure on the world market price for solar-grade silicon, which, in turn, could place pressure on our margins in these businesses. Accordingly, overcapacity in polysilicon production could harm our business. If government incentives to locate our planned polysilicon facility in the city of Pocatello, Idaho are not realized then the costs of establishing our facility may be higher than we currently estimate. The State of Idaho and the municipal governments have offered us a variety of incentives to attract Hoku Solar and Hoku Materials, including tax incentives, financial support for infrastructure improvements around the facilities, and grants to fund the training of new employees. In December 2006, we received a letter from the city of Pocatello, Idaho outlining a variety of financial and other incentives that could be available to us if we ultimately complete the construction of our planned polysilicon production facility in the city of Pocatello, Idaho. This letter is not a legally binding agreement on the part of the city of Pocatello, Idaho or us, and the various incentives described in the letter are subject to a number of risks, contingencies and uncertainties, including the negotiation of a lease for property and the actual availability of financial and other incentives, including favorable tax incentives, at the time of completion of planned construction and thereafter. In March 2007, we entered into a 99-year ground lease with the City of Pocatello, for approximately 67 acres of land in Pocatello, Idaho and in May 2007 we commenced construction. Except for the ground lease, we have not entered into any definitive agreements with the State of Idaho or any municipal government and we may not realize the benefits of these offered incentives. If we are unable to realize these incentives the costs of establishing our planned polysilicon facility in Idaho may be higher than we currently estimate. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are exposed to risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate those internal controls. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. We have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. However, the manner in which companies and their independent public accounting firms apply these requirements and testing companies’ internal controls, remains subject to some uncertainty. To date, we have incurred, and we expect to continue to incur increased expense and to devote additional management resources to Section 404 compliance. Despite our efforts, if we identify a material weakness in internal controls, there can be no assurance that we will be able to remediate such material weakness identified in a timely manner, or that we will be able to maintain all of the controls necessary to determine that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. In the event that our chief executive officer, chief 25 Table of Contents financial officer or our independent registered public accounting firm determine that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under Section 404, investor perceptions of us may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. If our competitors are able to develop and market products that customers prefer to our products, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to continue operations. In the polysilicon market, we will also compete with companies such as Hemlock Semiconductor Corporation, Renewable Energy Corporation ASA, Mitsubishi Polycrystalline Silicon America Corporation, Mitsubishi Materials Corporation, Tokuyama Corporation, MEMC Electronic Materials, Inc., and Wacker Chemie AG. In addition, we believe new companies may be emerging in China and Eastern Europe, and new technologies, such as fluidized bed reactors, are emerging, which may have significant cost and other advantages over the Siemens process we are planning to use to manufacture polysilicon. These competitors may have longer operating histories, greater name recognition and greater financial, sales and marketing, technical and other resources than us. If we fail to compete successfully, we may be unable to successfully enter the market for polysilicon and PV modules. The market for PV systems installations is competitive and continually evolving. As a new entrant to this market, we expect to face substantial competition from companies such as PowerLight, a subsidiary of SunPower Corporation, SunEdison, and other new and emerging companies in Asia, North America and Europe. Many of our known competitors are established players in the solar industry, and have a stronger market position than ours and have larger resources and recognition than we have. Furthermore, the PV market in general competes with other sources of renewable energy and conventional power generation. The number of PEM fuel cell membrane and MEA product developers is growing and competition is becoming increasingly intense. There are a number of public and private companies, national laboratories and universities worldwide that are developing fuel cell membranes and MEAs that compete with our fuel cell products. To our knowledge, DuPont, W.L. Gore and 3M sell the majority of PEM fuel cell membranes and MEAs used in PEM fuel cell systems today. In addition, some of our existing and potential customers have internal membrane and MEA development efforts. These development efforts may result in membrane or MEA products that compete with our fuel cell products. Most of our competitors and potential customers have substantially greater financial, research and development, manufacturing and sales and marketing resources than we do and may complete the research, development and commercialization of their PEM fuel cell membrane and MEA products more quickly and cost-effectively than we can. In addition, most of our competitors have well-established customer and supplier relationships that may provide them with a competitive advantage with respect to sales opportunities and discounts on materials. If we are unable to meet recommended government operating specifications, the market for our fuel cell products may be limited. The U.S. Department of Energy, in connection with the Solid State Energy Conversion Alliance, a partnership with the National Laboratories and the fuel cell industry, has established 40,000 hours, which represents approximately 4 1/2 years of operation, and 5,000 hours as the commercial operating lifetime targets for fuel cell systems in residential primary stationary and automotive applications, respectively. We have demonstrated 2,000 hours of MEA operating lifetime under simulated fuel cell operating conditions. If the market for fuel cell systems develops, we expect that governments and regulatory bodies will establish more operating specifications, such as operating lifetime targets, power output targets and similar operating metrics. If we fail to meet existing or any future recommended operating specifications, the market for our fuel cell products may be limited. Our business and industry are subject to government regulation, which may harm our ability to market our products. Our and our customers’ fuel cell products are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, including, for example, state and local ordinances relating to building codes, public safety, electrical and gas 26 Table of Contents pipeline connections, hydrogen siting and related matters. The level of regulation may depend, in part, upon whether a PEM fuel cell system is placed outside or inside a home or business. As products are introduced into the market commercially, governments may impose new regulations. We do not know the extent to which any such regulations may impact our or our customers’ products. Any regulation of our or our customers’ products, whether at the federal, state, local or foreign level, including any regulations relating to installation and use of our customers’ products, may increase our costs or the price of PEM fuel cell applications and could reduce or eliminate demand for some or all of our or our customers’ products. The market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by foreign, federal, state and local government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as policies promulgated by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation. In the United States and in a number of other countries, these regulations and policies are being modified and may continue to be modified. Customer purchases of, or further investment in the research and development of, alternative energy sources, including solar power technology, could be deterred by these regulations and policies, which could result in a significant reduction in the potential demand for our PV system installations. For example, without a regulatory mandated exception for solar power systems, utility customers are often charged interconnection or standby fees for putting distributed power generation on the electric utility grid. These fees could increase the cost to our customers of installing PV systems and make them less desirable, thereby harming our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The installation of PV systems is subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national and local ordinances relating to building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering and related matters. It is difficult to track the requirements of individual states and design equipment to comply with the varying standards. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to PV system installations may result in significant additional expenses to us and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our PV installation services. The reduction or elimination of government and economic incentives for PV systems and related products could reduce the market opportunity for our PV installation services. We believe that the near-term growth of the market for on-grid applications, where solar power is used to supplement a customer’s electricity purchased from the utility network, depends in large part on the availability and size of government incentives. Because we plan to sell to the on-grid market, the reduction or elimination of government incentives may adversely affect the growth of this market or result in increased price competition, both of which adversely affect our ability to compete in this market. Today, the cost of solar power exceeds the cost of power furnished by the electric utility grid in many locations. As a result, federal, state and local government bodies in many countries, most notably Germany, Japan and the United States, have provided incentives in the form of rebates, tax credits and other incentives to end users, distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of solar power products to promote the use of solar energy in on-grid applications and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. These government economic incentives could be reduced or eliminated altogether. For example, Germany has been a strong supporter of solar power products and systems and political changes in Germany could result in significant reductions or eliminations of incentives, including the reduction of tariffs over time. Some solar program incentives expire, decline over time, are limited in total funding or require renewal of authority. Net metering policies in Japan could limit the amount of solar power installed there. Reductions in, or eliminations or expirations of, governmental incentives could result in decreased demand for PV products, and reduce the size of the market for our planned PV system installation services. Defects in our products could result in a loss of revenue, unexpected expenses and harm to our business reputation. Our products are complex and must meet stringent quality requirements. Products as complex as ours may contain defects that are not detected until after the products are shipped because we and our customers cannot test 27 Table of Contents for all possible scenarios. These defects could cause us to incur significant re-engineering costs and divert the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts. Defects could also trigger warranty obligations and lead to product liability as a result of lawsuits against us or our customers. Upon commercialization of our products, we may be required to indemnify our customers in some circumstances against liability from product defects. A successful product liability claim against us could result in significant damage payments, which would negatively affect our financial results. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property, and we could incur substantial costs defending ourselves against claims that our products infringe on the proprietary rights of others. Our ability to compete effectively will depend on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights with respect to our Hoku MEAs, Hoku Membranes and manufacturing processes and any intellectual property we develop with respect to our polysilicon business. We rely in part on patents, trade secrets and policies and procedures related to confidentiality to protect our intellectual property. However, much of our intellectual property is not covered by any patent or patent application. Confidentiality agreements to which we are party may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Our trade secrets may also become known without breach of these agreements or may be independently developed by our competitors. Our inability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology and processes could allow our competitors to limit or eliminate any of our potential competitive advantages. Moreover, our patent applications may not result in the grant of patents either in the United States or elsewhere. Further, in the case of our issued patents or our patents that may issue, we do not know whether the claims allowed will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology or processes. Even if some or all of our patent applications issue and are sufficiently broad, our patents may be challenged or invalidated and we may not be able to enforce them. We could incur substantial costs in prosecuting or defending patent infringement suits or otherwise protecting our intellectual property rights. We do not know whether we have been or will be completely successful in safeguarding and maintaining our proprietary rights. Moreover, patent applications filed in foreign countries may be subject to laws, rules and procedures that are substantially different from those of the United States, and any resulting foreign patents may be difficult and expensive to enforce. Further, our competitors may independently develop or patent technologies or processes that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. If we are found to be infringing third-party patents, we could be required to pay substantial royalties and/or damages, and we do not know whether we will be able to obtain licenses to use these patents on acceptable terms, if at all. Failure to obtain needed licenses could delay or prevent the development, manufacture or sale of our products, and could necessitate the expenditure of significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing intellectual property. Asserting, defending and maintaining our intellectual property rights could be difficult and costly, and failure to do so might diminish our ability to compete effectively and harm our operating results. We may need to pursue lawsuits or legal actions in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and domain names, and to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. If third parties prepare and file applications for trademarks used or registered by us, we may oppose those applications and be required to participate in proceedings to determine priority of rights to the trademark. We cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered by our issued patent or our pending patent applications or that we were the first to invent technology because: • some patent applications in the United States may be maintained in secrecy until the patents are issued; • patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing; and • publications in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries and the filing of patents relating to those discoveries. 28 Table of Contents Competitors may have filed applications for patents, may have received patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights relating to products or technology that block or compete with our products and technology. Due to the various technologies involved in the development of fuel cell systems, including membrane and MEA technologies, and PV products it is impracticable for us to affirmatively identify and review all issued patents that may affect our products. Although we have no knowledge that our products and technology infringe any third party’s intellectual property rights, we cannot be sure that we do not infringe any third party’s intellectual property rights. We may have to participate in interference proceedings to determine the priority of invention and the right to a patent for the technology. Litigation and interference proceedings, even if they are successful, are expensive to pursue and time-consuming, and we could use a substantial amount of our financial resources in either case. The loss of any of our executive officers or the failure to attract or retain specialized technical and management personnel could impair our ability to grow our business. We are highly dependent on our executive officers, including Dustin M. Shindo, our Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Karl M. Taft III, our Chief Technology Officer. Due to the specialized knowledge that each of our executive officers possesses with respect to our technology or operations, the loss of service of any of our executive officers would harm our business. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers, and each may terminate his employment without notice and without cause or good reason. In addition, we do not carry key man life insurance on our executive officers. All of our operations are currently located in Hawaii, which has a limited pool of qualified applicants for our specialized needs. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified management and technical personnel, many of whom must be relocated from the continental United States or other countries. In addition, we will need to hire and train specialized engineers to manage and operate our planned polysilicon facility. We may not be successful in hiring or retaining qualified personnel. Our inability to hire qualified personnel on a timely basis, or the departure of key employees, could harm our business. We may have difficulty managing change in our operations, which could harm our business. We continue to undergo rapid change in the scope and breadth of our operations as we seek to grow our business. Our planned entry into the PV system installation and polysilicon markets will involve a substantial change to our operations. Our potential growth will place a significant strain on our senior management team and other resources. We will be required to make significant investments in our engineering, logistics, financial and management information systems. In particular, we currently have limited resources dedicated to sales and marketing activities and will need to expand our sales and marketing infrastructure to support our customers. Our planned entry into the PV installation business and polysilicon markets involves the construction of a polysilicon production facility, increased international activities, and the increase in our headcount and operating costs by a significant factor. Our business could be harmed if we encounter difficulties in effectively managing our planned growth. In addition, we may face difficulties in our ability to predict customer demands accurately, which could strain our support staff and our ability to meet those demands. We rely on single suppliers and, if these suppliers fail to deliver materials that meet our quality requirements in a timely manner or at all, the manufacture of solar products would be limited. It is highly likely that we will procure materials for our planned PV system installation and polysilicon businesses from companies that are also our competitors. These companies may choose in the future not to sell these materials to us at all, or may raise their prices to a level that would prevent us from selling our products on a profitable basis. 29 Table of Contents We use materials that are considered hazardous in our manufacturing processes and, therefore, we could be liable for environmental damages resulting from our research, development or manufacturing operations. The manufacture of polysilicon will involve the use of materials that are hazardous to human health and the environment, the storage, handling and disposal of which will be subject to government regulation. We use solvents, volatile organic compounds and other materials in our membrane and MEA research and development and manufacturing processes that are considered hazardous to the environment and a risk to public health and safety by federal and state regulatory authorities. We also use hydrogen and oxygen, which are highly flammable gases, to test our fuel cell products. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may increase our research and development or manufacturing costs and may require us to halt or suspend our operations until we regain compliance. If we have an accident at our facility involving a spill or release of these substances, we may be subject to civil and/or criminal penalties, including financial penalties and damages, and possibly injunctions preventing us from continuing our operations. Any liability for penalties or damages, and any injunction resulting from damages to the environment or public health and safety, could harm our business. We do not have any insurance for liabilities arising from the use and handling of hazardous materials. Any significant and prolonged disruption of our operations in Hawaii could result in production delays that would reduce our revenue. All of our operations are currently located in Hawaii, which is subject to the potential risk of earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods and other natural disasters. The occurrence of an earthquake, hurricane, tsunami, flood or other natural disaster at or near our facility in Hawaii could result in damage, power outages and other disruptions that would interfere with our ability to conduct our business, including impairing our ability to develop and manufacture our fuel cell products. In October 2006, Hawaii suffered a major earthquake causing significant damage throughout the state. Our facilities and operations; however, did not suffer any damage. Any significant and prolonged disruption resulting from these events would cause delays in the manufacture and shipment of our fuel cell products. Most of the materials we use must be delivered via air or sea, and some of the equipment used in our production process can only be delivered via sea. Hawaii has a large union presence and has historically experienced labor disputes, including dockworker strikes that have prevented or delayed cargo shipments. Any future dispute that delays shipments via air or sea could prevent us from manufacturing or delivering our fuel cell products in time to meet our customers’ requirements, or might require us to seek alternative and more expensive freight forwarders or contract manufacturers, which could increase our expenses. We have significant international activities and customers that subject us to additional business risks, including increased logistical complexity and regulatory requirements, which could result in a decline in our revenue. Sales to companies in Japan accounted for over 40% of our revenue in fiscal 2007 and substantially all of our revenue for fiscal 2006 and 2005. We believe that international sales will account for a significant percentage of our revenue in the future. Hoku Materials’ largest polysilicon supply agreements are with Suntech, Sanyo and GEWD, which are located in The People’s Republic of China, Japan, and Malaysia, respectively. International sales can be subject to many inherent risks that are difficult or impossible for us to predict or control, including: • political and economic instability; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and tariffs; • difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations, including foreign distributor relationships; • longer accounts receivable collection cycles in certain foreign countries; 30 Table of Contents • adverse economic or political changes; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • more limited protection for intellectual property in some countries; • potential trade restrictions, exchange controls and import and export licensing requirements; • U.S. and foreign government policy changes affecting the markets for our products; • problems in collecting accounts receivable; and • potentially adverse tax consequences of overlapping tax structures. All of our contracts are denominated in U.S. dollars except for our contract with GEC and MSA. Therefore, increases in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar to foreign currencies will cause our products to become relatively more expensive to customers in those countries, which could lead to a reduction in sales or profitability in some cases. Our stock price is volatile and purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. Our stock price is volatile and during fiscal 2007, our stock has had closing high and low sales prices in the range of $2.12 to $7.69 per share. The stock market in general and the market for technology companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, including: • variations in our financial results or those of our competitors and our customers; • announcements by us, our competitors and our customers of acquisitions, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; • failure to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors with respect to our financial results; • our ability to develop and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis; • litigation; • changes in our management; • changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals; • future sales of our common stock by us and future sales of our common stock by our officers, directors and affiliates; • investors’ perceptions of us; and • general economic, industry and market conditions. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility and a decrease in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against the company. Class action litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Anti-takeover defenses that we have in place could prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to change our directors or management. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it more difficult for or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us without the approval of our Board of Directors. These provisions: • establish a classified Board of Directors, so that not all members of our Board of Directors may be elected at one time; 31 Table of Contents • set limitations on the removal of directors; • limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and • provide our Board of Directors the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our management team and may deprive investors of the opportunity to sell their shares to potential acquirers at a premium over prevailing prices. This potential inability to obtain a control premium could reduce the price of our common stock. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Our Board of Directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 