D. Risk Factors. We may suffer larger loan losses if defaults on loans by our customers increase as a result of weak economic conditions in Japan Weak economic conditions in Japan may lead to increased defaults on loans, which in turn would cause us to increase our charge-offs of loans and our provisions for loan losses, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations and financial condition. The current economic environment in Japan is showing signs of recovery with regard to corporate profits and business conditions in the manufacturing and various other sectors. The trends in employment and personal consumption have also been positive. However, the Japanese economy still faces several uncertainties which create concern for its future economic prospects. Overall, the capital procurement environment appears to have improved, however, small and medium-sized companies with low creditworthiness continue to remain in a difficult situation. Statistically, according to Tokyo Shoko Research, a specialist in credit reporting and provider of an information database on Japanese businesses, the number of business bankruptcy cases with total debts of ¥10 million or more was approximately 13,700 cases for calendar year 2004, a decrease of 15.8% compared to the previous year. According to the Supreme Court of Japan, the number of voluntary bankruptcy petitions, including individuals and corporations, was approximately 219,000 during calendar year 2004, a decrease of 12.6% compared to the previous year. The seasonally adjusted unemployment rate in Japan gradually increased from 1992 to 2002 before decreasing since 2003, and it ranged between 4.5% and 5.0% during 2004. Although these indicators have started to improve, due to the continued high levels of unemployment and poor levels of personal consumption resulting from stagnation in worker wages, trends in the number of bankruptcy cases remain unpredictable. If the economic situation in Japan does not improve or worsens, we may be forced to charge off loans in excess of our existing provisions for loan losses, to increase our provisions for loan losses, or to tighten our credit screening policies, which would limit our acquisition of new customers. Any such event could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. -7- Table of Contents Increasing competition among Japan’s finance companies and other financial institutions may adversely affect our ability to increase or maintain the size of our loan portfolio, the average credit quality of our customers or the interest rates we charge on our loans The consumer and business owner finance industries in Japan’s financial sector are becoming increasingly competitive. Competition for customer acquisition may continue to intensify due to the movement toward entry into this industry which has led to capital investments by major financial institutions, establishment of joint venture corporations, and acquisition of companies by corporations including IT companies and foreign-affiliated financial institutions. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources, larger customer bases, longer histories, greater name recognition, more extensive physical infrastructure and networks of loan offices and more established relationships in the finance industry than we do. Our competitors seek to compete aggressively on the basis of interest rates, lending terms and the coverage and scale of their network of distribution and marketing channels. Under these competitive pressures, we have focused our efforts on acquisition of prime customers with low credit risk responding to diversification of small and medium-sized businesses and consumers’ needs by promoting alliance businesses with various companies, thereby differentiating ourselves from competitors. We have promoted the alliance strategy known as the financial version of an OEM strategy, and offer new financial services not available from conventional loan business which match the growth stage of the customers. In June 2004, we sold most of the outstanding balance of our consumer loans to Orient Credit Co., Ltd., or Orient Credit, and shifted our loan portfolio toward provision of loans to small and medium-sized business owners. These loan products usually bear lower interest rates, resulting in a decrease in the weighted period-end average contractual interest rate on our outstanding loans, from 25.3% at March 31, 2003, 24.0% at March 31, 2004 and 22.1% at March 31, 2005. If we are unwilling or unable to match our competitors’ terms, we may fail to increase or maintain the number and average balance of our customer accounts, and our results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. To the extent that we reduce interest rates on our products in response to competitive pressures, our interest margins will decline. Furthermore, the average credit quality of our customers may decrease if we cannot sufficiently acquire prime customers, or we lose these prime customers to our competitors, and our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. -8- Table of Contents Misconduct by an employee or director could harm us and is difficult to detect and deter Any of our employees and directors could engage in misconduct, which includes, among other thing: • conduct that exceeds the authority given to the employee or director such as approval of a transaction for which he or she does not have proper authorization; • concealment of such unauthorized conduct or authorized but unsuccessful activities that cause material harm to us; and • improper use or disclosure of confidential information or leakage of personal information. Any such misconduct by an employee or director could result in regulatory sanctions, legal liability and serious reputational or financial harm to us. The precautions we take to prevent and detect such misconduct may not always deter or prevent it, even though we have not in the past suffered materially from misconduct by an employee or director. Even if we succeed in managing the conduct of our own employees and directors, we may suffer reputationally or financially from misconduct by other lenders in the finance industry. This could lead to introduction of additional regulations or laws favoring borrowers that might erode our profitability, and therefore could affect our financial position and results of operations. Negative publicity beyond our control could lead to legislative or regulatory changes that adversely affect our business The Japanese government responded to criticism of small business loan collection practices of several prominent lenders in 1999 by introducing new legislation and regulations that imposed significant burdens on our business, even though we did not engage in the criticized collection practices. Any future negative publicity about consumer and small business moneylending and collection practices could lead to introduction of additional regulations or laws favoring borrowers that might erode our profitability. For instance, in 2003, corresponding to the growing criticism of unregistered moneylenders’ loan businesses, an amendment of the Moneylending Business Control and Regulation Law, or the Moneylending Business Restriction Law, and the Law Concerning the Regulations of Receiving of Capital Subscription, Deposits and Interest on Deposits, or the Contributions Law, was promulgated and became effective on January 1, 2004. These amendments primarily set forth stricter requirements for business registration, set guidelines for loan operating supervisors, who are individuals required to be designated by all moneylenders, constrained unregistered moneylenders’ ability to engage in harmful marketing and loan collection practices, invalidated loan agreements with higher than 109.5% annual interest and increased penalties on violations of the statutory maximum interest rate, all of which affect the industry as a whole. The amendments also require the Japanese government, which last reduced the statutory maximum interest rate in June 2000, to review the statutory maximum interest rate again in January 2007. As a result, the Japanese government may further reduce the statutory maximum interest rate at the time of the next review, particularly if political pressure against the moneylending business is strong. Any such reduction could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Potential changes to legislation and accompanying enforcement, and restrictions and regulations associated with Japan or U.S. law could affect our business The main laws and regulations, with which we must comply in order to operate our business, among other things, are as follows: See “Regulation” in Item 4.B of this annual report on Form 20-F. -9- Table of Contents • Regulations on interest rate (Contributions Law and Interest Rate Restriction Law); • Regulations on loan operations (Moneylending Business Restriction Law and Administrative Guidelines issued by the Financial Services Agency); • Other related regulations (Law on Protection of Personal Information, Law on Customer Identification and Illegal Use of Bank Deposits, etc., on Transactions by Financial Institutions, Revised Civil Code, Law on Debt Servicing Business by Servicing Companies, Installment Sales Law, Securities and Exchange Law); and • Regulations under U.S. Laws (The U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940 and Sarbanes-Oxley Act). Although our practices fully comply with these laws and regulations, any amendments to these laws and regulations, or any implementation of new laws and regulations that we must comply, depending on the contents, could affect our business and results of operations. If we are unable or unwilling to comply with revised guidelines to the Moneylending Business Restriction Law, we may be suspended from the moneylending business and our registration as a moneylender may be revoked The Moneylending Business Restriction Law and the guidelines under the law require us to provide each borrower and any guarantor with a written notice detailing the terms and conditions of the loan and guarantee at the time the loan agreement or any guarantee agreement is signed as well as at the time of disbursement if multiple disbursements may be provided under the same agreement. See “Regulation” in Item 4.B of this annual report on Form 20-F. Currently, we ask users of our automated telephone service at the time of each disbursement to their accounts whether or not they want a written notice as contemplated in the guidelines to the Moneylending Business Restriction Law. We mail a written notice to them only upon their request. Based on discussions with the Financial Services Agency, or FSA, we may need to modify our loan disbursement practices to include mailing of a written notice even to borrowers who do not request a notice, and we are considering measures to comply with the guidelines, as most recently amended. If we mail notices to every borrower, we may lose potential customers who prefer not to receive mailed notices in the interest of privacy. However, failure to comply with FSA guidelines empowers the FSA to impose administrative sanctions for non-compliance, including suspension of a part or the whole of our business, or cancellation of our registration as a moneylender. These guidelines create substantial uncertainty for us. Any failure to maintain the confidentiality of personal information of our customers could adversely affect our results of operations We keep and manage sensitive personal information obtained from our customers. If we fail to maintain the confidentiality of personal information for any reason, our results of operations could be adversely affected in a number of ways. We could be subject to lawsuits for damages from our customers if they are injured as a result of the release of their personal information. Also, in April 2005, the Law on Protection of Personal Information became effective. As a result, failure to maintain the confidentiality of personal information could subject us to penalty under this new law. In order to comply with the requirements of the Law on Protection of Personal Information and other related statutes, we established a working committee, which examines the countermeasures, develops the control system and continuously inspects the control system. We could incur additional expenses associated with changing our security systems, either voluntarily or in response to administrative guidance or other regulatory initiatives from the government, or in connection with public relations campaigns designed to prevent or mitigate damage to our corporate image or reputation. Any such damage to our reputation could also adversely affect our ability to retain or acquire customers or to maintain or establish strategic alliances with third parties, therefore could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. -10- Table of Contents We may have to constrain our business activities to avoid being deemed an investment company under the U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940 In general, a company which is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities, may be deemed to be an investment company under the U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940. We do not believe that we are an investment company as defined under the U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940. However, if we were to be deemed an investment company, we would be prohibited from issuing our securities in the United States and may have to terminate our U.S. listing or other sponsorship promoting a U.S. trading market for our issued securities. In order to avoid these prohibitions, we may be forced to forego otherwise attractive business opportunities, potentially limiting our growth and our profitability. Failure to comply with the Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could tarnish our credibility and adversely affect our stock price and business activities On July 30, 2002, Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, designed to restore shareholder confidence in publicly traded securities following a series of highly publicized corporate scandals by providing greater transparency in corporate accounting and reporting. All issuers, including foreign issuers, of securities which are registered under Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are subject to the Act, which emphasizes the responsibility of the issuer’s management and board of directors over financial reporting, and establishment and maintenance of effective internal controls, as well as improvement of disclosure levels. Furthermore, violation by any person or corporation of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 shall be subject to severe penalties. Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the chief executive officer and chief financial officer are requested to certify in each annual report that the report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, the financial statements and other financial information included in the report fairly present in all material respect the financial condition and results of operations of the company as of and for the periods presented in the report, and the signing officers are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal control. Compliance is required by March 31, 2007. We are in the midst of strengthening our corporate governance structure in order to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act while obtaining a wide range of advisory opinions from inside and outside experts regarding the approaches to corporate governance and risk management, and examined them from different perspectives. We will continue to do our best to enhance our internal control structure in order to: • ensure reliability of our financial statements; • urge our management’s and corporate business activities, compliance with related regulations; and • improve the effectiveness and efficiency of our management and corporate business activities. However, intentional or unintentional failure of our officers to comply with Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, with respect to certifications regarding our financial reporting, could subject the certifying officers to severe legal sanctions, therefore tarnish our credibility and adversely affect our stock price and our business activities. -11- Table of Contents The growing variety of legal means with which our customers can seek protection from creditors could require us to increase our provisions for loan losses and charge-offs In recent years, the number of legal means with which retail borrowers can seek protection from creditors has increased. • Special Conciliation Law. Under Japan’s Special Conciliation Law enforced in February 2000, a borrower in financial difficulty may, under the supervision of a conciliation committee consisting of a judge and court-appointed arbitrators having specialized knowledge of law, finance and other relevant matters, negotiate with some or all of his or her lenders to reschedule or revise payment obligations. The borrower may also petition a court to order suspension of enforcement procedures against the borrower’s assets during the negotiation procedures, with less requirements needed compared to under the former civil conciliation procedures. • Civil Rehabilitation Law. Amendments to the Civil Rehabilitation Law enacted in April 2001 provide several relatively convenient alternative procedures for restructuring loan repayments with the court’s approval by individual borrowers in financial difficulty without declaring personal bankruptcy under the Bankruptcy Law. A repayment plan established pursuant to one of these procedures does not require lender approval. • Bankruptcy Law. Amendments to the Bankruptcy Law became effective in January 2005 aiming to achieve prompt, efficient, effective and fair procedures, and intend to simplify the procedure for and improve the debtors’ protection under personal bankruptcy. Under this amendment, an individual debtor can take advantage of a unified discharge procedure and larger scope of assets to be retained by insolvent debtors. The new law also improved the effectiveness of the automatic stay, preference, offset and other practical provisions for fair treatment among creditors. • Regulation of Lawyers and Judicial Scriveners. The accessibility of lawyers and judicial scriveners who advise retail borrowers in financial difficulties has increased due to various deregulatory measures, including enforcement of regulations permitting advertisement by lawyers since October 2000, and the amendment of the Judicial Scriveners Law in April 2003, which partly enables proceedings of reconciliation and civil conciliation by judicial scriveners (shiho shoshi) in the Summary Court. The growing variety of legal means and deregulatory measures, as well as high levels of unemployment and stagnation in worker wages, has caused an increase in the number of customers seeking protection from creditors by taking advantage of these legal means. For the year ended March 31, 2005, 1,043 customers applied for procedures under the Special Conciliation Law and Civil Rehabilitation Law with respect to which we charged off ¥1,499 million of loans outstanding, compared to 836 customers with respect to which we charged off ¥472 million of loans outstanding for the previous fiscal year. These laws may discourage borrowers who would otherwise make an effort to repay the entirety of their loans from doing so because of the relative ease of restructuring their loan payments. If this trend continues, the number of our customers seeking legal protection from enforcement of terms of payment or adjournment of payment may increase, and if as a result the number of delinquent loans increases, our provisions for loan losses may increase and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Any further amendment to the Bankruptcy Law or related laws that increases protection of the assets of individual debtors and reduces the burden of declaring personal bankruptcy would also have a materially adverse impact on our results of operations. While we are generally able to collect a small portion of payments owed to us pursuant to the Special Conciliation Law and Civil Rehabilitation Law, we generally recover almost nothing under personal bankruptcy proceedings. -12- Table of Contents Any future inability to obtain funds from lenders or access the debt capital markets on favorable terms could impair our ability to extend loans to borrowers, reduce our competitiveness and the profitability of our lending and adversely affect our financial condition Ready access to funds on favorable terms is essential to our business. The difference between the interest rates we charge our customers and the interest rates we pay to our financing sources is the key factor impacting our profitability. As of March 31, 2005, our weighted period-end average contractual interest rate on outstanding loans in our loan portfolio was 22.1%, while our weighted period-end average contractual interest rate was 1.2% for our short-term borrowings and 1.9% for our long-term borrowings. We raise funds through loans from financial institutions and the capital markets by issuing debt securities. As of March 31, 2005, the aggregate amount of our borrowings was ¥149,444 million, which represented approximately 87.8% of our total loans outstanding and purchased loans as of the same date. As of March 31, 2005, 91.6% of our borrowings, or ¥136,844 million, are long-term borrowings, 75.4% of our borrowings, or ¥112,619 million, came from loans from banks, non-banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions, and 24.6% of our borrowings, or ¥36,825 million, came from issuances of corporate bonds, including convertible bonds, and commercial paper, including asset backed commercial paper. Based on their evaluations of our long-term or short-term financial prospects, any of these lenders could cease to finance our business or to offer funds on favorable terms. A downgrade in our credit ratings or those of similar companies or Japanese companies generally, for instance, could result in an increase in the interest rates that lenders charge us. For example, the downgrade of our debt rating by the Japan Credit Rating Agency in April 2003, together with recent downgrades of the debt ratings of other consumer finance companies, has forced us to curtail our debt issuances and increase our reliance on bank loans which typically bear higher interest rates. Negative publicity about small business or consumer finance lenders such as that seen in 1999 about the practices of small business lenders could also make lenders reluctant to extend credit to companies in our industry, including us. Moreover, although contractual borrowing interest rates are subjected to fluctuation due to market environment and other factors, the contractual lending interest rate in our loan business is restricted to 29.2% as stipulated by the Contributions Law. Therefore, in order to minimize our interest fluctuation risk, we are promoting financing with a fixed interest rate for borrowings from financial institutions and issuance of corporate bonds. As of March 31, 2005, our fixed rate borrowings, including hedge from derivative transactions, comprised 64.3%, and our variable rate borrowings comprised 35.7% of our total borrowings. We believe that we do not have any difficulties in our access to funds required at present. However, as a result of the ongoing restructuring of the Japanese financial sector, and of regional banks in particular, our lenders may fail or adopt lending policies unfavorable to us. A number of other factors largely beyond our control could impair our ability to borrow, including severe disruptions of the financial markets, negative views about the prospects for the finance industry generally or further downgrades of Japan’s sovereign debt ratings. Any impact from these factors that worsen our capital procurement environment significantly beyond our expectations could increase our interest expenses and an inability to obtain sufficient funds from lenders or capital markets on favorable terms or at all could impair our ability to extend loans to borrowers, reduce our competitiveness and the profitability of our lending and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. -13- Table of Contents An increase in prevailing market interest rates would increase our interest expense and thus could reduce the margins we receive on our loans to our borrowers Interest rates in Japan have been extremely low for several years, reflecting government monetary policy including the “zero interest rate” policy of the Bank of Japan, which has been in place for most of the period since February 1999. The official discount rate offered by the Bank of Japan has remained at 0.1% since September 2001. Partly as a result of this policy, our weighted period-end average contractual interest rates on our own borrowings have been extremely low in recent years: 1.7% as of March 31, 2003, 1.3% as of March 31, 2004 and 1.2% as of March 31, 2005 for our short-term borrowings and 2.4% as of March 31, 2003, 2.3% as of March 31, 2004 and 1.9% as of March 31, 2005 for our long-term borrowings. Although the Bank of Japan has signaled that it plans to maintain the current interest rate policy to address deflation concerns, the Bank of Japan may reverse its policy and increase interest rates. In that case, lenders may increase interest rates on their loans to us and we may not be able to pass our increased interest expenses to our customers in the form of higher rates on our loans due to competitive considerations and to the legal limit on interest rates that we may charge. In particular, we are unable to charge interest rates beyond the legal limit set by the Contributions Law, which is currently set at 29.2% per year and may decline further when the Japanese government, pursuant to the law, reviews the legal limit in January 2007. See “Regulation — The Money Lending Business Restriction Law, Contributions Law and Interest Rate Restriction Law — Restrictions on Usury” in Item 4.B of this annual report on Form 20-F for a further discussion of the legal limit. Any increase in the interest rates our lenders charge us could thus have an adverse effect on our operating margins and profitability. Any disruption, outages, delays or other difficulties experienced by our information or technological systems and networks could adversely affect our business We increasingly rely on internal and external information and technological systems and networks to generate new business, provide services to customers and manage our operations. In particular, our business depends on: • the ability of our automated fund transfer system to handle high volumes of phone calls and to provide customers with a convenient system which offers reliable privacy protection; • the reliability and security of third-party databases from which we obtain credit information about our customers; • the reliability of Sanyo Electric Credit’s wire transfer service that we use to disburse loans to accounts designated by our customers; and • the reliability of the financial institutions that hold our customers’ accounts from which we automatically transfer their payments to us. In addition, we outsource the following hardware and software in order to manage our operating transaction and accounting data, confidential customer information and other back-office operations: • our main computer housed in an NEC affiliate’s data center, to which all data are backed each business day; • dedicated lines that connect our main computer and outsourcing center to our application servers and e-mail servers, and -14- Table of Contents • maintenance and support work for our main computer. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, natural disasters, power loss, computer hackers, computer viruses and similar events or the loss of support services from third parties such as our systems solution providers including NEC and its affiliates, telephone carriers and Internet backbone providers. Any disruption, outages, or delays or other difficulties experienced by any of these technological and information systems and networks could affect our financial position and results of operations. Our president and his family may exercise influence over important business decisions in a way that conflicts with your interest As a result of the direct and indirect ownership or control of our outstanding shares by Sakioka family members, who collectively beneficially owned 41.2% of our outstanding shares as of March 31, 2005, our president and his family members, including our chairman, can exercise a controlling influence over important decisions affecting our business and affairs. These decisions may involve significant corporate transactions such as the sale of our company, corporate restructuring, investment in other businesses or assets, or the terms of future financings. The interests of these shareholders in these and other matters may differ from those of our public shareholders. A sale of our shares held by our major shareholders, including our chairman, president or members of their family, may adversely affect our share price As of March 31, 2005, our chairman, our president, members of their immediate family and corporations controlled by them together owned 41.2% of our outstanding shares. A disposal of any portion of their holdings on the Tokyo Stock Exchange or otherwise will increase the supply of our shares in the marketplace and may adversely affect the market price of our shares and American Depositary Shares. We may change our portfolio of products and services from time to time but fail to achieve the intended results While we have traditionally been a finance company that specializes in unsecured lending to individuals in Japan, we intend to review our portfolio of products and services on an ongoing basis and change them as appropriate to remain competitive in the markets that we serve. For example, in respond to the diversified needs of small and medium-sized businesses and consumers, as well as to maximize our corporate value, in June 2004, we sold most of the outstanding balance of our unguaranteed consumer loans to Orient Credit, a consumer finance company, in order to concentrate our resources on providing loans with guarantors, such as small business owner loans and otherwise serving small and medium-sized business owners. With respect to the financial services for small and medium-sized business owners, in addition to provision of small business owner loans and Business Timely loans, we also concentrate on the provision of leases and installment loans, and real estate finance. With respect to the quality of operating assets, we aimed at the accumulation of prime assets with lower credit risks through acquisition of prime customers through the promotion of our alliance strategy. Changes in our portfolio of products or services, including those described above, may fail to generate the results we desire, and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. For example, deterioration of the quality of our operating assets due to deterioration in the financial condition of small and medium-sized businesses caused by rapid changes in the economic environment and other various factors could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. -15- Table of Contents Our strategic alliances, joint ventures and strategic investments to acquire new customers may not yield attractive returns and could produce losses We are changing our marketing focus from the “Nissin brand” to the “NIS group brand” in order to maintain continuous growth amidst extremely keen competition, by improving the synergy of our group, while cultivating investments and alliances partners as well as our tie-up strategy, known as the “Financial Version of an OEM” strategy. We aim to establish a customer base by promoting strategic alliances and joint ventures and fully utilizing our “sales and marketing expertise” and “credit management know-how and expertise” cultivated by the Company. Through this strategy, we have been pursuing various strategic alliances and joint ventures with consumer finance and other financial companies, which include arrangements to receive customer referrals and to provide guarantees to the borrowings of the customers of third parties. We have also in recent years increased our investments in companies that have the potential to complement our business strategically. The book carrying value of these strategic investments was ¥1,428 million as of March 31, 2003, ¥1,876 million as of March 31, 2004 and ¥20,890 million as of March 31, 2005. We expect to continue seeking these strategic alliances, joint ventures and strategic investments to build our customer base and establish a solid profit base for our group, but may not be able to successfully grow or maintain them. These strategic alliances, joint ventures and strategic investments may not achieve profitability and we may incur impairment losses as a result of failing to recover any investments or expenditures. Moreover, the strategic alliances, joint ventures and strategic investments that aim at specific markets may attract our existing customers, rather than expand our customer base, and reduce the profitability of our core business. The fair value of our strategic investments could decline due to a deterioration of the economic environment and adversely affect our financial position We are conducting capital tie-ups with various companies which have synergistic effects in integrated financial services, for the purpose of network expansion with these companies. As of March 31, 2005, the cost of our investment securities was ¥14,830 million and, due to listings on stock exchanges and rises in stock prices, the fair value of these investments was ¥28,443 million, or 12.5% of our consolidated total assets. However, in the future, if the stock prices decline significantly, or the financial condition of our investments worsen due to deterioration of the economic environment, we could suffer impairment losses on these securities, or our shareholders’ equity ratio could decline due to fluctuation in unrealized profits in investment securities, which could therefore adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Increasing competition in the loan servicing market in which Nissin Servicer operates could reduce our profitability In July 2001, we established Nissin Servicer Co., Ltd., a subsidiary, to acquire and service non-performing assets of banks and other financial institutions. This business has expanded rapidly since its inception, and the subsidiary became a separate operating segment beginning in the year ended March 31, 2004. Nissin Servicer mainly purchases specific money claims from financial institutions by invited tender. The increase in the number of companies entering this market, together with the contraction in the liquidity market for bad debts due to the trend towards economic recovery, has lead to increasingly severe competition. In response to these factors, we have revised pricing standards through classification of specific money claims into categories, and by improving the accuracy of due diligence, we have maintained our competitiveness in the purchase of specific money claims. This, together with the development of new areas of business such as liquidation of assets, securitization, and corporate revitalization, has allowed us to respond to the current business environment. However, if we are unable to maintain competitiveness in the purchase of specific money claims, or if there is a sudden increase in purchase prices or a fall in commission fees, we may be unable to purchase these loans at favorable prices or at all, and our loan servicing business may have decreased profitability, which could significantly affect our business strategies and results of operations. -16- Table of Contents Because we expect our shares and ADSs will be treated as stock of a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, you may be subject to materially adverse tax consequences As we expect that 50% or more of our gross asset value constitutes “passive assets,” meaning assets not constituting part of an active trade or business under U.S. federal tax rules, we expect that our shares and ADSs will be treated as stock of a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. U.S. persons who hold our shares or ADSs, either directly or indirectly, may be subject to materially adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences upon the sale or disposition of the shares or ADSs and upon distributions with respect to the shares or ADSs to the extent the distributions are “excess distributions,” distributions in excess of a normal rate of distribution as calculated for passive foreign investment companies. Gain realized on the sale or other disposition of shares or ADSs would in general not be treated as capital gain. Instead, if you are a U.S. holder, you would be treated as if you had realized such gain and certain “excess distributions” ratably over your holding period for the shares or ADSs and would be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for each such year to which the gain was allocated, together with an interest charge in respect of the tax attributable to each such year. In addition, dividends that you receive from us will not be eligible for the 15% tax rate applicable to qualified dividend income if we are a PFIC either in the taxable year of the distribution or the preceding taxable year. See “United States Tax Considerations — Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules” in Item 10.E of this annual report on Form 20-F. Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and have to act through the depositary to exercise those rights The rights of shareholders under Japanese law to take actions including voting their shares, receiving dividends and distributions, bringing derivative actions, examining our accounting books and records and exercising appraisal rights are available only to holders of record on our register of shareholders or our register of beneficial shareholders. Because the depositary, through its custodian agents, is the registered holder of the shares underlying the ADSs, an ADS holder cannot take these actions except through and to the extent permitted by the depositary. If we instruct the depository to provide ADS holders with the opportunity to vote in a timely manner, the depositary will make efforts to vote the shares underlying your ADSs as instructed by you. ADS holders, however, may not be provided with such rights on a timely basis or at all. -17- Table of Contents If you hold fewer than 100 shares, you do not have the right to vote the shares or transfer them and if you have ADSs representing fewer than 100 shares, you cannot withdraw the shares underlying the ADSs and cannot require us to purchase the underlying shares One hundred of our shares constitute one “unit.” A holder who owns fewer than 100 shares owns less than a whole unit. The Japanese Commercial Code restricts the rights of a shareholder who holds shares of less than a whole unit. In general, holders of shares constituting less than a unit do not have the right to vote under the unit share system. Our articles of incorporation also provide that no share certificates will be issued with respect to any number of shares constituting less than one unit. As the transfer of shares normally requires delivery of share certificates, any fraction of a unit for which no share certificates are issued is non-transferable. Furthermore, under the unit share system, holders of shares constituting less than a unit have the right to require us to purchase their shares. However, holders of ADSs that represent other than multiples of whole units cannot withdraw the underlying shares representing less than one unit and, therefore, they will be unable to exercise the right to require us to purchase the underlying shares. As a result, holders of ADSs representing shares in lots of less than one unit will not have access to the Japanese markets to sell their shares through the withdrawal mechanism. See “Limitations Affecting Security Holders — Japanese Unit Share System” in Item 10.B of this annual report on Form 20-F. 