D. Risk Factors. Increasing competition among Japan’s finance companies and other financial institutions may adversely affect our ability to increase or maintain the size of our loan portfolio, the average credit quality of our customers or the interest rates we charge on our loans The loan finance industries in Japan’s financial sector are becoming increasingly competitive. In particular, competition for new customers has intensified primarily due to the entry into this industry of additional competitors, which has included entry through capital investments by major financial institutions and the establishment of joint venture corporations. In addition, some existing finance companies were acquired by corporations including information technology companies and foreign-affiliated financial institutions and subsequently enhanced their business. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources, larger customer bases, longer histories, greater name recognition, more extensive physical infrastructure and networks of loan offices and more established relationships in the finance industry than we do. Our competitors seek to compete aggressively on the basis of interest rates, lending terms and the coverage and scale of their networks of distribution and marketing channels. Under these competitive pressures, we have focused our efforts on acquisition of prime customers with low credit risk, especially among small and medium-sized enterprises (“SMEs”) in Japan, including through alliances with various companies, in an effort to differentiate ourselves from our competitors. In June 2004, we reduced our involvement in the consumer loan business by selling a majority of the outstanding balance of our unguaranteed consumer loans to a third-party and strategically shifting our loan portfolio toward the provision of loans to SMEs and their owners, which typically carry lower interest rates than consumer loans. The weighted period-end average contractual interest rate on our outstanding loans decreased from 16.1% at March 31, 2006 to 13.8% at March 31, 2007 due to shifting our portfolio and concentrating on secured loans for property companies. If we are unable to match our competitors’ terms, we may fail to increase or maintain the number and average balance of our customer accounts, and our results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. If, on the other hand, we reduce interest rates on our products in response to competitive pressures, our interest margins will decline. Furthermore, the average credit quality of our customers may decrease if we are not able to attract prime customers, or if we lose these prime customers to our competitors, and our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Significant changes to the business environment for moneylending companies in Japan, including as a result of recent court decisions by the Supreme Court of Japan, may continue to adversely affect us, and any future changes to laws and regulations may also adversely affect us Our business activities are subject to various laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate, primarily in Japan. Pursuant to the Law Concerning the Regulation on Acceptance of Contributions, Money Deposits and Interest (the “Contributions Law”), it is a criminal offence for any lending business to charge an interest rate exceeding a maximum interest rate of 29.2% per year. Separately, the Law Concerning the Regulation of Interest Rates (the “Interest Rate Restriction Law”) provides that an agreement for the payment of interest above a prescribed maximum rate is invalid with respect to the portion exceeding the maximum rate. As at the date of this annual report on Form 20-F, these prescribed maximum rates for the purposes of the Interest Rate Restriction Law are 20% per year for loans of less than ¥100,000; 18% per year for loans of ¥100,000 or more but less than ¥1 million; and 15% per year for loans of ¥1 million or more. However, notwithstanding the above restriction on interest rates under the Interest Rate Restriction Law, the Law Concerning Regulations on Moneylending Business, etc. (the “Moneylending Business Law”) provides that a payment by a borrower or guarantor of interest in excess of the prescribed maximum interest rates under the Interest Rate Restriction Law to a registered moneylender such as us is valid (and non-refundable) so long as such interest is paid voluntarily without coercion, mistake or threat and certain documentation requirements are satisfied (often called “deemed valid payments”). Interest that exceeds the prescribed maximum rates under the Interest Rate Restriction Law (but is below the maximum interest rate of 29.2% allowed under the Contributions Law) is often called “gray-zone” interest. The interest rates for all of our loan products are set below the maximum lending rate of 29.2% allowed under the Contributions Law, however, we continue to charge “gray-zone” interest to our customers, although loans with “gray-zone” interest are significantly decreasing. Since January 13, 2006, the Supreme Court of Japan decided a number of cases relating to the abovementioned laws that have negatively affected the ability of moneylenders like us to enforce deemed valid payments of “gray-zone” interest and have resulted in increased claims for repayment of “gray-zone” interest. In particular, in January 2006, the court ruled that the voluntary payment requirement for deemed valid payments under the Moneylending Business Law should be interpreted strictly, that an “acceleration clause” in a loan agreement is invalid with respect to a delay in the payment of excess interest and that, unless there is some particular situation such that the borrower is not misled into believing that such a clause is valid, the voluntary nature of excess interest payments, which is the requirement for deemed valid payments, will not be recognized. As a result of such court decisions, the Enforcement Regulation of the Moneylending Business Law was amended effective as of July 1, 2006 such that our loan documentation must now specifically provide that we may not accelerate a loan as a result of non-payment if such non-payment relates only to “gray-zone” interest. -8- Table of Contents As a result of such court decisions and regulatory changes, and as a result of an increased number of borrowers in Japan encountering financial difficulties, we have recently experienced a greater number of claims for repayment of “gray-zone” interest. The total amount of refunds of excess interest repayments in cash and loan principal charged-off by excess interest repayments was ¥2,532 million and ¥5,230 million for the years ended March 31, 2006 and 2007, respectively. We have also been reducing the level of interest that we charge on loans to customers. (See “Business Overview — Our Operations — Integrated Financial Services Segment” in Item 4.B of this annual report on Form 20-F.) Since a borrower may claim for refund of excess interest for up to 10 years, which is the statute of limitations, our total gross exposure may theoretically be up to the amount of excess interest received by us over the 10 years. In addition, in October 2006, the Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants issued “Audit Treatment of Reserve for Losses on Excess Interest Repayment Claims in Consumer Finance Companies” under which we are, in effect, required to keep a certain amount of reserves for losses on excess interest repayments to provide for probable refunds of “gray-zone” interest previously paid by borrowers. Accordingly, we increased our reserve for losses on excess interest repayments in cash and the portion of allowance for loan losses provided for loan principal charged-off by excess interest repayments based on our best estimation taking into account past experience and current conditions for refunding of excess interest. The amount of provision for losses on excess interest repayments for the year ended March 31, 2006 was ¥3,331 million. However, taking into consideration the current business environment, we modified our allowance to cover all estimated future repayments of excess interest derived from current loans receivable and loans previously paid-off or charged-off. Consequently, this provision for the year ended March 31, 2007 was ¥12,664 million. When excess interest is refunded to borrowers, the excess amount is first applied to the outstanding loan principal balance and charged-off from the principal. We have the legal right to offset such excess amount against the outstanding loan principal. If the excess amount is greater than the outstanding balance of loan principal, then we refund the deficit amount to the borrower in cash. We increased our allowance for loan losses to provide for loan principal charged-off by excess interest repayments, in addition to our reserve for losses on excess interest repayments in cash. (See “Operating Results — Critical Accounting Policies” in Item 5.A of this annual report on Form 20-F.) If the level of claims for repayment are higher than we anticipate, we may be forced to increase our allowance and reserve related to losses on excess interest repayments and in turn recognize additional provision for losses on excess interest repayments, which may substantially reduce our net interest income from lending activities. We may also be required to further reduce the level of interest charged to customers. Any or all of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, amendments to the Moneylending Business Law, the Contributions Law and the Interest Rate Restriction Law were promulgated on December 20, 2006 and are scheduled to become effective gradually over the next few years. As of an effective date to be fixed by a cabinet order to be issued within one year from the promulgation date, moneylending businesses will become subject to enhanced regulations (such as the introduction of additional documentary requirements and an increase in the number of prohibited activities) and enhanced supervision (through measures such as the introduction of business improvement orders). Within two and a half years from this effective date and approximately three years from the promulgation date, the amendments will be fully in force. When in force these amendments will: • abolish the concept of deemed valid payments under the Moneylending Business Law; • reduce the maximum interest rate under the Contributions Law from 29.2% per year to 20% per year; • introduce administrative sanctions on charging interest in excess of the maximum interest rate under the Interest Rate Restriction Law; • obligate registered moneylenders to investigate customers’ ability to repay and prohibit excessive lending in respect of loans to individual customers; and • introduce further documentation requirements. These or other such legislative or regulatory changes or court decisions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. -9- Table of Contents We may suffer larger loan losses if defaults on loans by our customers increase as a result of weak economic conditions in Japan or otherwise Weak economic conditions in Japan may lead to increased defaults on loans, including loans that we guarantee, which in turn would cause us to increase our charge-offs of loans and our provision for loan losses, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations and financial condition. In recent years, the economic environment in Japan displayed improvements in corporate profitability and business confidence, especially with respect to major companies, and rises in the stock and real estate markets. These trends also led to improvements in employment and personal consumption. However, disruptions to international credit markets triggered by a recent deterioration of the subprime-mortgage market in the United States, including increased defaults on home mortgages, have led to widespread difficulties in international markets including the New York Stock Exchange and Tokyo Stock Exchange, where our equity securities are listed. If these problems persist or continue to spread to other sectors, an economic downturn or recession in Japan could occur. Moreover, the Japanese economy still faces uncertainties such as inflation in prices for raw materials caused by the expansion of production activities, fiscal reconstruction, and potential changes to the social security system. If the economic situation in Japan worsens, we may be forced to charge-off loans in excess of our existing provision for loan losses, to increase our provision for loan losses, to pay out on loans that we guarantee beyond our reserve for guarantee losses, or to tighten our credit screening policies, which would limit our acquisition of new customers. In addition, we may not adequately evaluate or control risks associated with the loans we make, such as the creditworthiness of the borrower, and may experience greater defaults than we anticipate as a result. Any such factors could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. An increasing number of our customers seeking protection from creditors under the Bankruptcy Law or related laws could require us to increase our provision for loan losses and charge-offs In recent years, the number of legal means with which retail borrowers can seek protection from creditors has increased. For instance, amendments to the Bankruptcy Law of Japan (the “Bankruptcy Law”) that became effective in January 2005 are aimed at achieving prompt, efficient, effective and fair procedures for personal bankruptcy, and to simplify the procedure for, and improve debtors’ protection under, personal bankruptcy. Under these amendments, an individual debtor can take advantage of a unified discharge procedure and a larger scope of assets that may be retained by insolvent debtors. These amendments to the Bankruptcy Law have also improved the effectiveness of the automatic stay, preference, offset and other practical provisions for fair treatment among creditors. We generally recover very little of any loan made to a customer that has entered personal bankruptcy proceedings. This and other laws of Japan, including the Special Conciliation Law and the Civil Rehabilitation Law, may discourage borrowers who would otherwise make an effort to repay the entirety of their loans from doing so if they perceive a relative ease of using these legal means to discharge their debts. As a result, the number of our customers who seek legal protection from enforcement of terms of payment or adjournment of payment may increase. If, as a result, the number of delinquent loans increases, we may be required to charge-off those loans or increase our provision for loan losses and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Any further amendment to the Bankruptcy Law or related laws that increases protection of the assets of individual debtors or reduces the burden of declaring personal bankruptcy would also have a materially adverse impact on our results of operations. -10- Table of Contents We may change our portfolio of products and services from time to time and expand the business areas in which we operate but may fail to achieve the intended results While we were traditionally a finance company that specialized in unsecured lending to individuals in Japan, we review our portfolio of products and services on an ongoing basis and change them as appropriate to remain competitive in the markets that we serve. For example, in June 2004, in response to the diversified needs of SMEs and consumers, as well as to maximize our corporate value, we sold most of the outstanding balance of our unguaranteed consumer loans to NETCARD, Inc. (formerly known as Orient Credit Co., Ltd.), a consumer finance company, in order to concentrate our resources on providing loans with guarantors, such as our “Business Assist loans,” and otherwise serving SME owners. With respect to financial services for SME owners, in addition to extending “Business Assist loans” and “Business Timely loans,” which are unguaranteed, unsecured loans made under pre-approved revolving credit lines to SME owners, we also concentrate on the provision of real estate finance, and leases and installment loans. With respect to the quality of operating assets, we seek to accumulate prime assets with lower credit risks through acquisition of prime customers through the promotion of our alliance strategy. Changes in our portfolio of products or services, including those described above, may fail to generate the results we desire and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. For example, deterioration of the quality of our operating assets due to deterioration in the financial condition of SMEs caused by rapid changes in the economic environment and other factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we have expanded and plan to continue to expand the business areas in which we operate. Principally, in addition to providing integrated financial services to SMEs and their owners in Japan, we also engage in real estate-related businesses (including providing secured loans to property companies and principal investment in real estate), distressed loan servicing, investment banking, securities and venture capital operations and leasing operations. As we expand our business operations, we compete with companies that we did not previously consider to be competitors and who often have established track records and greater name recognition, substantially larger financial, technical, personnel and marketing resources and larger customer bases than we do. There can be no assurances that we will be successful in expanding our operations in each of these business areas in line with our management’s expectations or at all. If we are unable to compete, we may fail to expand our operations and our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Our success also depends on our ability to attract and retain employees with the skills and market knowledge that will allow us to expand our various businesses. Competition to employ and retain such personnel is high. There can be no assurance that we will successfully and consistently meet personnel recruitment and retention goals, and any failure to do so may restrict our ability to develop our businesses and may have adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our real estate-related businesses are subject to numerous risks, including the health of the Japanese economy, regulatory and legal changes, and our ability to adequately evaluate and manage these risks Recently, our secured loans portfolio has grown significantly, reflecting our strategic shift towards the promotion of financial services to SMEs and their owners centering on real estate financing to property companies, through active sales and marketing efforts by our Real Estate Group, which was established to supervise all the real estate-related businesses in June 2006. Proceeds from these loans are primarily used by our customers as working capital for acquisition of properties for property development and/or for resale. The health of the real estate market in Japan is closely tied to larger economic trends. Thus, the value of real estate mortgaged or pledged to us by our customers could decline if Japanese economic conditions deteriorate, exposing us to significant risks. In addition, with respect to secured loans to property companies, we are also exposed to risks that our customers may not complete development projects in a timely manner or at all, resulting in the developers’ failure in their business and an inability to repay the loans to us, or that the completed property will not have the value we anticipated, resulting in lower collateral value than we expected. We may also fail to adequately evaluate or control risks associated with the loans we make, such as the creditworthiness of the borrower or development or other risks associated with the property, or we may fail to correctly value, or successfully realize the value of, the collateral. As a result, we may experience greater defaults than we anticipate or fail to recognize the amounts we anticipate upon enforcement of collateral. Environmental liabilities unknown at the time we make loans could also impair the value of properties securing our loans. -11- Table of Contents Secured loans for property development or resale purposes are generally made for short terms and have relatively large principal amounts compared to other loans that we lend. This has increased our short-term funding requirements, which we may not be successful in meeting or accurately evaluating. This could constrain our ability to make new loans. Furthermore, in the event taxation regimes concerning our real estate-related businesses, including land taxation, are amended, costs of acquisition and sale of real estate may increase, and could adversely affect our real estate-related businesses. In addition to secured real estate finance, our direct investments in real estate have recently grown significantly. Any deterioration in market conditions in Japan’s real estate markets, including tightening of regulations with respect to real estate financing or investment, may adversely affect the value of real estate held by us as principal and our real estate-related businesses in general. Any or all of the above factors could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The fair value of our strategic investments could decline due to a deterioration of the economic environment or other factors and adversely affect our financial condition We invest in various companies for which we believe that such investment will improve our ability to provide integrated financial services or other services and expand our business network. As of March 31, 2007, the fair value of our investment securities was ¥38,384 million, representing 8.5% of our consolidated total assets as of the same date. However, if the stock prices of these companies were to decline significantly, or if the financial condition of these companies were to worsen, for example, due to a deterioration of the economic environment, we could suffer impairment losses on these securities or our shareholders’ equity ratio could decline due to a fluctuation in unrealized profits or losses in investment securities, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The strategic alliances, joint ventures and strategic investments which we have entered into may not yield attractive returns and could produce losses We have been pursuing various strategic alliances and joint ventures with financial institutions and other finance-related companies, which include arrangements to receive customer referrals and to provide guarantees for their loans to customers. We have also in recent years increased our investments in companies that have the potential to complement our business strategically. The book value of these strategic investments was ¥28,674 million and ¥23,368 million as of March 31, 2006 and 2007, respectively. We expect to continue seeking strategic alliances, joint ventures and strategic investments to establish a strong business infrastructure and expand sales channels, but may not be able to successfully develop such alliances or to grow or maintain profits. These strategic alliances, joint ventures and strategic investments may not achieve profitability and we may incur impairment losses or other damage with respect to such investments. We may also fail to adequately evaluate or control risks associated with these investments or with loans that we guarantee as part of some of our strategic alliances, such as the creditworthiness of the borrower or other risks associated with such loans, or we may fail to correctly value, or successfully realize the value of, any collateral for loans that we guarantee. Our rights and remedies may also be more limited under our strategic alliances, joint ventures and strategic investments than when we engage in lending or other businesses directly. As a result, we may experience greater payouts on guarantees than we anticipate, fail to recognize the amounts we anticipate upon enforcement of collateral associated with loans we guarantee, or incur other damage. Moreover, while strategic alliances, joint ventures and strategic investments that aim at specific markets may attract our existing customers or those of our alliance partners, we may not be successful in attracting the new customers that we require in order to expand our customer base which in turn could reduce the profitability of our core business. Any or all of these factors could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. -12- Table of Contents Increasing competition in the loan servicing market in which Nissin Servicer operates could reduce our profitability Our subsidiary, Nissin Servicer Co., Ltd. (“Nissin Servicer”), is engaged in the purchase of specific money claims from financial institutions through a process of invited tender. An increase in the number of companies entering this market, together with the contraction in liquidity in the market for bad debts due to the economic recovery in Japan, has lead to increasingly severe competition. In response to these factors, and in order to maintain our competitiveness in the purchase of specific money claims, we are pursuing a proactive approach to financial institutions, efficient collection activities which take into consideration the customers’ revitalization efforts and profitability, and enhancement of real estate-related revitalization businesses. We believe that these activities, together with the development of new areas of business such as liquidation of assets, securitization-related and corporate revitalization-related businesses, have allowed us to maintain competitiveness in the current business environment. However, if we are unable to maintain competitiveness in the purchase of specific money claims, or if there are rapid increases in purchase prices or falls in the level of commission fees, we may be unable to purchase these loans at favorable prices or at all, and our servicing business may have decreased profitability or losses, which could adversely affect our business strategies and results of operations. Our business in China is subject to a number of risks associated with doing business overseas and, in particular, is subject to extensive Chinese government regulation that changes frequently, and these regulations could adversely affect our business and operating results Our subsidiary, Nissin Leasing (China) Co., Ltd. (formerly known as Matsuyama Nissin Investment Consulting (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.; “Nissin Leasing (China)”), operates leasing, non-bank financing and other businesses in China. We aim to expand our presence in China and such expansion will require further investment of capital and management resources. Our proposed expansion also involves a number of risks associated with doing business overseas, such as difficulties in the political and/or economic relationship between Japan and China, social or economic turmoil due to social unrest, terrorism or other factors and/or general strikes and other disruptions to working conditions. Expanding our operations in China may require significantly more investment and resources than we currently anticipate, which may lead to adverse consequences for our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. In addition, the Chinese government has broad discretion and authority to regulate the leasing, non-bank finance and other industries in China. The Chinese government exercises significant control over financial and other markets, as well as China’s economic growth, through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting of monetary policy and provision of preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Existing regulations or government action in China may constrain our operations, and new regulations, the readjustment of previously implemented regulations or other government action could require us to change our business operations in China, increase our costs, prevent us from repatriating profits to Japan, or limit our ability to finance or conduct activities in China. Furthermore, China’s commercial legal system is still under development, and even where adequate law exists in China, enforcement of laws or contracts may be uncertain and sporadic. The relative inexperience of China’s judiciary including in relation to international commercial matters creates additional uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation, and interpretation of statutes and regulations may be subject to government policies reflecting domestic political changes. Our activities in China are subject to administrative review and approval by various national and local agencies of China’s government. As a result of the changes occurring in China’s legal and regulatory structure or otherwise, we may not be able to secure requisite governmental approval for our activities, or approvals we have received, such as the leasing license obtained by Nissin Leasing (China), may be suspended or revoked. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. -13- Table of Contents Any future inability to obtain funds from lenders or access the debt capital markets on favorable terms could impair our ability to extend loans to borrowers, reduce our competitiveness and the profitability of our lending and adversely affect our financial condition Ready access to funds on favorable terms is essential to our business. We raise funds primarily through loans from financial institutions and by issuing debt securities in the capital markets. As of March 31, 2007, the aggregate amount of our borrowings was ¥345,075 million. The difference between the interest rates we charge our customers and the interest rates we pay to our financing sources is the key factor impacting our profitability. As of March 31, 2007, our weighted period-end average contractual interest rate on outstanding loans in our loan portfolio was 13.8% per annum, while our weighted period-end average contractual interest rate for both short-term borrowings and long-term borrowings was 1.9% per annum. As of March 31, 2007, 75.6% of our borrowings, or ¥260,817 million, were long-term borrowings, 62.4% of our borrowings, or ¥215,357 million, came from loans from banks, non-bank financial companies, insurance companies and other financial institutions, 19.9% of our borrowings, or ¥68,840 million, came from issuances of corporate bonds and commercial paper, and 17.6% of our borrowings, or ¥60,878 million, came from other sources, including securitization of certain loans receivable. Based on their evaluations of our long-term or short-term financial prospects, any of these lenders could cease to finance our business or to offer funds on favorable terms. In particular, a downgrade in our credit ratings or those of similar companies or Japanese companies generally, for instance, could result in an increase in the interest rates that lenders charge us and also result in a shift in the sources for funding that we choose to access. For example, the downgrades of our debt rating by the Japan Credit Rating Agency, Ltd., or JCR, in April 2003 and December 2005, led us to curtail our debt issuances and increase our reliance on bank loans, which typically bear higher interest rates. On September 27, 2007, JCR announced that it had lowered our debt rating again, which could prevent us from issuing debt in Japan at favorable rates or at all. In addition, any negative publicity about small business or consumer finance lenders such as that seen in 1999 with respect to the unlawful or improper practices of small business lenders could also make lenders reluctant to extend credit to us or companies in our industry in general. Further, as a result of the recent decisions of the Supreme Court with respect to “gray-zone” interest rates, we have faced increasing difficulties in obtaining bank funding on favorable terms as a result of such lenders decreasing the amount of funds available to loan companies in general. In addition, the disruptions to international credit markets triggered by the recent deterioration of the subprime-mortgage market in the United States have led to widespread difficulties in international financial and capital markets, and constrained our ability to borrow or to securitize assets. As a result of these factors, we have recently experienced difficulty in accessing the total amount of funds that we desire for our business operations, and we expect that our cost of borrowing may increase in the short term. Moreover, as a result of the above factors and/or as a result of ongoing restructuring of the Japanese financial sector, and of regional banks in particular, our lenders may fail or adopt lending policies unfavorable to us. -14- Table of Contents A number of other factors largely beyond our control could also impair our ability to borrow, including severe disruptions of the financial markets (such as the recent disruptions triggered by the U.S. subprime-mortgage market difficulties), negative views about the prospects for the finance industry generally or further downgrades of Japan’s sovereign debt ratings. Any impact from these factors on our capital procurement environment could increase our interest expenses. An inability to obtain sufficient funds from lenders or capital markets on favorable terms or at all could impair our ability to extend loans to borrowers or reduce our competitiveness and the volume and/or the profitability of our lending. Although contractual borrowing interest rates that we are required to pay are subject to fluctuations due to the market environment and other factors, the contractual lending interest rate in our loan business is subject to various restrictions under Japanese law. Therefore, in order to minimize our interest fluctuation risk, we are pursuing financing with fixed interest rates for borrowings from financial institutions and issuances of corporate bonds. As of March 31, 2007, our fixed rate borrowings, including those fixed through hedging from derivative transactions, comprised 48.4%, and our variable rate borrowings comprised 51.6%, of our total borrowings. However, we may not be able to effectively control our interest rates on borrowings. Moreover, we expect that our cost of borrowings may increase in the short term, while our average contractual interest rates on loans that we extend to our customers is decreasing, as a result of the Japanese legal and regulatory changes reducing the interest rates that we may charge to our customers and our focus on higher-quality credit customers. This in turn could reduce our net interest margins. Any or all of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. An increase in prevailing market interest rates would increase our interest expense and thus could reduce the margins we receive on our loans to our borrowers Interest rates in Japan have been extremely low for several years, reflecting the Bank of Japan’s monetary policies, including the “zero interest rate” policy, which was in place for most of the period from February 1999 until it was ended in July 2006. Also, the official discount rate offered by the Bank of Japan has remained at 0.1% since September 2001 until it was increased to 0.4% in July 2006. Partly as a result of this policy, the weighted period-end average contractual interest rates on our own borrowings have been extremely low in recent years: 1.4% as of March 31, 2006 and 1.9% as of March 31, 2007 for our long-term borrowings. As a result of a recent change in policy by the Bank of Japan, short-term interest rates have recently risen in Japan and may continue to do so. In addition, market interest rates have risen generally as a result of the recent credit market disruptions triggered by the U.S. subprime-mortgage market difficulties. Consequently, our lenders may increase interest rates on their loans to us, and we may not be able to pass our increased interest expenses to our customers in the form of higher rates on our loans due to competitive considerations and to the legal limit in Japan on interest rates that we may charge, which will be reduced. Any increase in the interest rates our lenders charge us could thus have an adverse effect on our operating margins and profitability. Any failure to implement our business strategies successfully will negatively impact our ability to achieve our financial targets and our management’s expectations for business growth Our strategies include further developing certain business areas in which we operate, including our real estate-related businesses, our China-related businesses, our investment banking business and our servicing business. Further, our strategies will require us to achieve a transformation into a comprehensive non-bank financial services provider and to continue the reinforcement of our integrated risk management capabilities and the improvement of our brand image through strengthening our approach to compliance. Achieving our strategic goals will require significant management time, finances and other resources and we may not be successful in implementing our strategies to achieve the growth or returns expected by our management. In addition, changes in the business and/or economic environments in which we aim to operate and other uncertain or unforeseen factors may make it difficult for us to achieve the targets we have set. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in meeting the quantitative or qualitative targets set out or that our management will not change such targets in the future. -15- Table of Contents Our risk management structure is based primarily upon observed historical trends in our business and the experience of our employees and we may not be able to predict future risk exposure With effect from April 1, 2007, we established a new risk management division with responsibility for assessing the risks involved in our business and the profitability and capital efficiency of the Group in view of such risks. Because some of our methods of managing these risks are based upon the use of observed historical trends, borrower and market behavior and other historical measures primarily through the experience of our employees, these methods may not allow us to accurately predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than our historical measures indicate. This in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any disruption, outages, delays or other difficulties experienced by our information or technological systems and networks could adversely affect our business We increasingly rely on internal and external information and technological systems and networks to generate new business, provide services to customers and manage our operations. In particular, our business depends on: • the ability of our automated funds transfer system to handle high volumes of phone calls and to provide customers with a convenient system which offers reliable privacy protection; • the reliability and security of third-party databases from which we obtain credit information about our customers; • the reliability of third-party wire transfer services which we use to disburse loans to accounts designated by our customers; and • the reliability of the financial institutions that hold our customers’ accounts from which we automatically transfer their payments to us. In addition, we outsource a significant part of our hardware and software responsibilities, in order to manage our operating transaction and accounting data, confidential customer information and other back-office data operations. (See “Our Operations — Integrated Financial Services Segment — Technology” in Item 4.B of this annual report on Form 20-F.) Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, natural disasters, power loss, computer hackers, computer viruses and similar events or the loss of support services from third-parties such as our systems solution providers, telephone carriers and Internet backbone service providers. Any disruption, outages, or delays or other difficulties experienced by any of these technological and information systems and networks could affect our financial condition and results of operations. -16- Table of Contents We may have to constrain our business activities to avoid being deemed an investment company under the U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940 In general, a company which is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities may be deemed to be an investment company under the U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “Investment Company Act”). If we were to be deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we would be prohibited from issuing our securities in the United States and may have to terminate the listing of our American Depositary Shares (“ADSs”) on the New York Stock Exchange or other sponsorship promoting a U.S. trading market for our issued securities. In order to avoid these prohibitions, we may be forced to forgo otherwise attractive business opportunities, potentially limiting our liquidity, growth and profitability. Compliance with regulations on internal control could adversely affect our results of operations We are subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and our co-chief executive officers and chief financial officer must include the following statements in each annual report under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007: • a statement of management’s responsibility for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Group; • a statement identifying the framework used by management to conduct the required evaluation of the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control over financial reporting; • management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the Group’s most recent fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not the Group’s internal control over financial reporting is effective; and • a statement that the registered public accounting firm that audited the financial statements included in the annual report has issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting. Strengthening our corporate governance structure in order to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act has required significant costs, as well as management attention and other corporate resources, and we expect that compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will continue to require significant costs and resources. In addition, we will be subject to regulations on internal control over financial reporting under Japanese law from the year ending March 31, 2009 and may require additional costs and resources to comply with such new Japanese regulations. These compliance costs and resource requirements may be greater than we anticipate, and focusing limited corporate resources on these compliance matters may require us to constrain our business activities, which in turn could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Misconduct by an employee or director could harm us and is difficult to detect and deter Our employees and directors could engage in misconduct, which includes, among other things: • conduct that exceeds the authority given to the employee or director, such as approval of a transaction for which he or she does not have proper authorization; • concealment of such unauthorized conduct or authorized but unsuccessful activities that cause material harm to us; and • improper use or disclosure of confidential information or leakage of personal information. Any such misconduct by an employee or director could result in regulatory sanctions, legal liability and serious reputational or financial harm to us. We have not suffered materially from misconduct by an employee or director in the past. However, the precautions we take to prevent and detect such misconduct may not always deter or prevent it, even though we recognize compliance as one of the most significant challenges for management. Moreover, even if we succeed in managing the conduct of our own employees and directors, we may suffer reputationally or financially from misconduct by other lenders in the finance industry. This could generate an unfavorable perception of our business activities in general among potential customers, or lead to introduction of additional regulations or laws favoring borrowers that might erode our profitability, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. -17- Table of Contents Any failure to maintain the confidentiality of personal information of our customers could adversely affect our results of operations We keep and manage sensitive personal information obtained from our customers. If we fail to maintain the confidentiality of personal information for any reason, our results of operations could be adversely affected in a number of ways. We could be subject to lawsuits for damages from our customers if they are injured as a result of the release of their personal information. Failure to maintain the confidentiality of personal information could subject us to penalty under the Law Concerning the Protection of Personal Information of Japan (the “Personal Information Protection Law”). We could incur additional expenses associated with changing our security systems, either voluntarily or in response to administrative guidance or other regulatory initiatives from the government, or in connection with public relations campaigns designed to prevent or mitigate damage to our corporate image or reputation. Any damage to our reputation could also adversely affect our ability to retain or acquire customers or to maintain or establish strategic alliances with third-parties, or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Our chairman and his family may exercise influence over important business decisions in a way that conflicts with other shareholders’ interests As a result of the direct and indirect ownership of or control over our outstanding shares of common stock by Kunihiko Sakioka, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, and members of his family, who collectively beneficially own 36.0% of our outstanding shares as of March 31, 2007, Kunihiko Sakioka and his family members may collectively exercise a controlling influence over important decisions affecting our business and affairs. These decisions may involve significant corporate transactions such as a sale of any company within the Group, corporate restructuring, investment in other businesses or assets, or the terms of future financing. The interests of these shareholders in these and other matters may differ from those of other shareholders of the Company. Because we expect our shares and ADSs will be treated as stock of a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, you may be subject to materially adverse tax consequences As we expect that 50% or more of our gross asset value constitutes “passive assets,” generally meaning assets not constituting part of an active trade or business under U.S. federal tax rules, we expect that our shares and ADSs will be treated as stock of a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. U.S. persons who hold our shares or ADSs, either directly or indirectly, may be subject to materially adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences upon the sale or disposition of the shares or ADSs and upon distributions with respect to the shares or ADSs to the extent the distributions are “excess distributions,” distributions in excess of a normal rate of distribution as calculated for PFICs. Gain realized on the sale or other disposition of shares or ADSs would in general be taxed as ordinary income. If you are a U.S. holder, you would be treated as if you had realized such gain and certain “excess distributions” ratably over your holding period for the shares or ADSs, and the income allocated to such prior tax years would be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for each such year to which the gain was allocated, together with an interest charge in respect of the tax attributable to each such year. In addition, dividends that you receive from us will not be eligible for the 15% tax rate applicable to qualified dividend income if we are a PFIC either in the taxable year of the distribution or the preceding taxable year. (See “Taxation — United States Tax Considerations — Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules” in Item 10.E of this annual report on Form 20-F.) -18- Table of Contents Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and have to act through the depositary to exercise those rights The rights of shareholders under Japanese law to take actions including voting their shares, receiving dividends and distributions, bringing derivative actions, examining our accounting books and records and exercising appraisal rights are available only to holders of record on our register of shareholders or our register of beneficial shareholders. Because the depositary, through its custodian agents, is the registered holder of the shares underlying the ADSs, an ADS holder cannot take these actions except through and to the extent permitted by the depositary. If we instruct the depository to provide ADS holders with the opportunity to vote in a timely manner, the depositary will make efforts to vote the shares underlying the ADSs as instructed by ADS holders. ADS holders, however, may not be provided with such rights on a timely basis or at all. If you hold fewer than 100 shares, you do not have the right to vote the shares or transfer them and if you have ADSs representing fewer than 100 shares, you cannot withdraw the shares underlying the ADSs and cannot require us to purchase the underlying shares One hundred of our shares constitute one “unit.” A holder who owns fewer than 100 shares owns less than a whole unit. The Japanese Corporate Law restricts the rights of a shareholder who holds shares of less than a whole unit. In general, holders of shares constituting less than one unit do not have the right to vote under the unit share system. Our Articles of Incorporation also provide that no share certificates will be issued with respect to any number of shares constituting less than one unit. As the transfer of shares normally requires delivery of share certificates, any fraction of one unit for which no share certificates are issued is non-transferable. Furthermore, under the unit share system, holders of shares constituting less than one unit have the right to require us to purchase their shares. However, holders of ADSs that represent other than multiples of a whole unit cannot withdraw the underlying shares representing less than one unit and, therefore, they will be unable to exercise the right to require us to purchase the underlying shares. As a result, holders of ADSs representing shares in lots of less than one unit will not have access to the Japanese markets to sell their shares through the withdrawal mechanism. (See “Memorandum and Articles of Association — Limitations Affecting Security Holders — Japanese Unit Share System” in Item 10.B of this annual report on Form 20-F.) -19- Table of Contents 