ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related To Our Business Legal actions could result in financial losses or harm to our business. We were, and in the future may be, subject to legal actions in the ordinary course of our operations, both domestically and internationally. In late 2006, various shareholders of our company filed eight purported class actions in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York against our company and certain of our officers and directors (among others), asserting claims under the federal securities laws. In 2007, the Court consolidated each of the actions into a single proceeding. On September 26, 2008, the Court entered a judgment in favor of the Company and closed the case. 10 In addition, in November 2009, we settled the litigation regarding our ownership of shares of China Natural Gas, Inc., which was our single largest asset, except construction in progress, based on market value of such shares at December 31, 2008. Pursuant to the settlement terms, we sold our 1,031,884 shares in China Natural Gas, Inc. to Ji Xiang, the original litigant, at a repurchase price of $3.80 per share, for an aggregate repurchase price of $3,921,159. Substantial legal liability in these or future legal or regulatory actions could have a material financial effect or cause significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects and our ability to continue as a going concern. We may be exposed to potential risks relating to our internal control over financial reporting and our ability to have those controls attested to by our independent auditors. We are required to include a report of management on our internal control over financial reporting in our annual reports on Form 10-K. Since we are now a smaller reporting issuer, our independent registered public accounting firm is not required to attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as well as the operating effectiveness of such internal controls for this year, such attestation of our independent registered public accounting firm was required in our annual report for the year ended December 2006, when we were considered to be an accelerated filer. We are in the process of instituting changes to satisfy our obligations in under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures, and documentation thereof. If our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems or procedures fail, we may not be able to provide accurate financial statements on a timely basis or comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Any failure of our internal controls or our ability to provide accurate financial statements could cause the trading price of our common stock to decrease substantially. While we have no reason to believe that our reported financial results and other information included in this annual report are inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, we may nevertheless identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in connection with the completion of our report. In the event we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls that we cannot remediate in a timely manner or we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors with respect to our internal controls, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may require additional financing in the future and a failure to obtain such required financing could inhibit our ability to grow. As of December 31, 2010, we had $3,675,209of cash and cash equivalents. Although we expect that our cash and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated needs for the next twelve months, if we decide to expand our business more broadly than currently estimated, or if our business grows more rapidly than we expect, we may need to raise additional financing in the future. Our ability to obtain additional funding would be subject to a number of factors, including market conditions, operational performance and investor sentiment. These factors may make the timing, amount, terms and conditions of additional funding unattractive, or unavailable, to us. If we are not able to obtain additional financing in the future, we will not be able to grow our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The terms of any future financing may adversely affect your interest as stockholders and could restrict the operation of our business. If we require additional financing, we may be required to incur indebtedness or issue equity securities, the terms of which may adversely affect your interests in our company. For example, any future indebtedness may be senior in right of payment to your shares upon liquidation. In addition, the terms of any future indebtedness may limit the operation of our business by imposing restrictions on our ability to grant security interests in our assets or make distributions, require us to comply with certain financial covenants or obtain consent before undertaking certain actions. Similarly, the terms of any equity securities we issue may be senior in right of payment of dividends to our common stock and may contain superior rights and other rights as compared to our common stock. Further, any such issuance of equity securities may dilute your interest in our company. 11 We may not be able to adequately protect and maintain our intellectual property. Our success will depend on our ability to continue to develop and market fertilizer and pesticide/insecticide products. We protect our proprietary technology and formulae by keeping such technology or formulae confidential. If such technology or formulae are disclosed to a third party that is not under an obligation to keep the technology confidential, we may not be able to protect our technology or formulae against being exploited by third parties. We currently have not applied for patents for our technology products or formulae as we believe an application for such patents would result in public disclosure of our proprietary technology and formulae with no guarantee that we would have enforceable rights in our intellectual property. Public knowledge of our proprietary technology and formulae without enforceable intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends on our management team and other key personnel, the loss of any of whom could disrupt our business operations. Our future success will depend in substantial part on the continued service of our senior management. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel could impede implementation of our business plan and result in reduced profitability. We do not carry key person life or other insurance in respect of any of our officers or employees (other than Directors’ & Officers’ (or D&O) insurance). Our future success will also depend on the continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified technical sales and marketing customer support. Because of the rapid growth of the economy in the People’s Republic of China, competition for qualified personnel is intense. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to retain our key personnel or that we will be able to attract, assimilate or retain qualified personnel in the future. If we are unsuccessful in our efforts in this regard, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not have supplier contracts with all of our trade vendors. As is typical in the agricultural industry in the People’s Republic of China, we do not have supplier contracts with all of our trade vendors. Where we do not have contracts in place, we conduct business on an order-by-order basis. Because we do not have supply contracts in place, we have no guarantee that we will be able to continue to receive adequate supplies for the production of our products or that our suppliers will not continually raise their prices. Despite not having supplier contracts in place in every case, we believe that we have very good relations with the agricultural vendor community. Nonetheless, because we conduct business in this fashion, it exposes us to some risk in the production of our products, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently rely on a small number of suppliers for raw materials used to produce our products. For the year ended December 31, 2010, two vendors Mei County Chun Chen Agricultural Meterial Co,. Ltd. and Fufeng Agricultural Meterial Co,.Ltd. provided 25.56% and 17.28%, respectively, of our raw materials (compared to two vendors providing 29.3%, and 11.24% of our raw materials in 2009). Although we have written agreements with these suppliers, we cannot guarantee that they will comply with the terms of our agreements, or that they will be able to deliver sufficient quantities of these raw materials in order for us to meet the increasing demand for our products. If we are not able to manufacture our products because of issues in the supply of necessary raw materials, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Amounts indicated in our distribution contracts may not result in sales of the actual contract amount which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. The Company enters into sales contracts with regional distributors in November ahead of the coming year. Typically, these non-exclusive distribution contracts have a one-year term and, upon signing the contract, the distributor will indicate its intent to purchase a certain quantity of our products. However, the actual demand of the products will be affected significantly by the weather conditions in the coming year. Although hawe have written sales contracts with these distributors, it cannot be guaranteed that the distributor will be able to place all orders as indicated in their respective contract. A Distributor who fails to place an order for the quantity estimated under its respective contract is generally not held responsible for failing to place an order for such contractual amount. During the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009 and 2010, manufacturing and sales fell seriously short of the contract amounts as a result of the adverse weather conditions and water flooding. In fiscal 2009, written sales contracts existed for $9 million sales while actual sales were $4.38 million (approximately 49% of estimated sales). In fiscal 2010, written contracts existed for $7.5 million sales while actual sales were $7.28 million (approximately 96.13% of estimated sales). If any of our customers continue to not place orders for their contractually agreed upon amounts, we could experience a reduction in revenue, profitability and liquidity. Disruptions to our chain of production could have a material adverse effect on our business. If there is disruption in our chain of production - from receipt of raw materials, to stoppages at our facilities, to delivery of our products - for whatever reason, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. The manufacture of our products relies on the delivery of raw materials to our facilities, the absence of work stoppages or other problems at our manufacturing facilities, as well as the ability to ship our products in a timely fashion. Although disruptions are infrequent, they can have an effect on our operations. For example, in mid-2006, road construction began in front of one of our manufacturing facilities, which affected our ability to receive supplies and ship products and consequently had a negative effect on our business. Similar road improvement projects over which we have no control could occur in the future. If we are unable to manufacture and deliver our products in a timely fashion, we could suffer harm to our reputation and our revenues and operating expenses could be negatively affected. We may be unable to pass along raw materials price increases to our customers, which could negatively affect our results of operations. The raw materials that we use in the manufacture of our products are subject to fluctuation due to market prices. If raw materials prices significantly increase and we are unable to pass along these costs to our customers, our operating expenses will increase and our results of operations could be negatively affected. We sell many of our products on credit, which exposes us to risk of payment defaults. We also make interest-free and unsecured advances to suppliers for the purchase of materials, which exposes us to risk of default. As is typical in the People’s Republic of China, we generally sell our products to distributors on a rolling basis. This means that there is a lag between when we deliver our products to our distributors (and recognize revenues for those shipments) and when we receive payment for those products. Typically, accounts are settled anywhere from one to two months and up to seven months after delivery of our products, although we may extend other payment terms to our distributors depending on their ability to pay. Often times, if a customer does not order additional products for delivery, we do not have significant leverage to ensure prompt payment of outstanding accounts. In addition to accounts receivables from customers, we also make advances to suppliers for the purchase of their materials. These activities expose us to risk of default. A farmer’s inability to sell his agricultural goods, or grow crops due to inclement weather, could hinder his ability to timely pay his credit obligations to our distributors, which affects their ability to make payment to us. Notably, in 2010, many of our customers did not make payments to our company for products delivered and we no longer believe that we will be able to collect such payments. Further, we have no guarantee that our suppliers will meet their delivery obligations to our company in order for us to produce our goods in a timely fashion. As of December 31, 2010, we had accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, of $147,439 compared to $4,311,025 in 2009, advances to suppliers of $645,396 compared to $532,932 in 2009, and we had allowances for doubtful accounts of $147,439 compared to $4,311,025 in 2009. If an unexpected number of our suppliers and creditors continue to default in their obligations to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. 13 Adverse weather conditions could reduce demand for our products, which could have a negative effect on our revenues. Demand for our products fluctuates significantly with weather conditions, which may delay the use of our products on crops or render them unnecessary at all. In addition, demand for our products is also affected by natural disasters such as floods, drought, hail, tornadoes and earthquakes. If demand for our products declines, this would have a negative effect on our revenues. In addition, in the event that crop yields are reduced for any reason, including natural disasters, farmers may default on their payments to our distributors, who, in turn, could default on their payments to our company. Further, we have no guarantee that our suppliers will meet their delivery obligations to our company in order for us to produce our goods in a timely fashion. In 2007, for example, there was unseasonably cold spring weather in Shaanxi, which was followed by a flood and drought in the third quarter of 2007. These events affected crop plantings and the use of fertilizers, which had a material adverse effect on our 2007 revenues. Further, many of our customers did not make payments to our company in 2007 for products delivered and we had allowances for doubtful accounts of $147,439 at December 31, 2010 compared to $4,311,025 at December 31, 2009. Continued defaults could have a negative effect on our cash flows and results of operations. Our success depends upon the development of the People’s Republic of China’s agricultural industry. The People’s Republic of China is currently the world’s most populous country and one of the largest producers and consumers of agricultural products. Over 40% of the People’s Republic of China’s labor force is engaged in agriculture, even though only about 14% of the land is suitable for cultivation. (Source: CIA Factbook) Although the People’s Republic of China hopes to further increase agricultural production, incomes for Chinese farmers are stagnating. Despite the Chinese government’s continued emphasis on agricultural self-sufficiency, inadequate port facilities and a lack of warehousing and cold storage facilities impedes the domestic agricultural trade. If the Chinese agricultural market does not develop, or develops slower than we expect, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating subsidiary may be restricted from making distributions to our company. We are a legal entity separate and distinct from Yang Ling, which is our wholly-owned operating subsidiary. Aside from our financing activities, the receipt of dividends from Yang Ling is currently our only other source of cash to pay shareholder dividends and to meet our other obligations. Yang Ling is subject to Chinese regulations that currently permit the payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. These accounting standards and regulations also require Yang Ling to set aside a portion of its after tax profits to fund certain reserve funds. See Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report for more information about these regulations. Although it has been able to do so, to date Yang Ling has not paid us any dividends. In the future, if Yang Ling does not accumulate sufficient profits under Chinese accounting standards and regulations after funding the required reserves, it will not be able to pay us any dividends, and consequently, we may be unable to pay any dividends to our stockholders. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. Our Board of Directors currently intends to follow a policy of retaining all of our earnings, if any, to finance the development and expansion of our business. Our corporate structure may subject you to two levels of taxation on the payment of dividends or upon a disposition of our operating subsidiary, thereby substantially reducing the return on your investment. If Yang Ling, our wholly-owned indirect subsidiary, pays a dividend to us, its parent company, for distribution to our stockholders as a dividend, or if Yang Ling (rather than us, its parent company) is ultimately sold, the dividend or the proceeds of that transaction would be subject to two levels of tax: one at the parent corporate level and one at the parent stockholder level. Because we conduct our operations through Yang Ling, any dividends we pay must come from Yang Ling. Additionally, if a sale were to occur, it would most likely be Yang Ling that would be sold, rather than our company. Because of applicable tax laws, if Yang Ling pays a dividend to us in the future or if Yang Ling is sold in the future, those proceeds may be subject to two levels of taxation: (i) we will pay tax on the dividend or sale proceeds received from Yang Ling, and (ii) our stockholders will pay tax on the distribution of the dividend or the proceeds of the sale. These two levels of taxation will effectively reduce the financial return on your investment in our company. 14 The industry in which we do business is highly competitive and we face competition from numerous fertilizer manufacturers in China and elsewhere. We compete with numerous local Chinese fertilizer manufacturers. Although we may have greater resources than many of our competitors, most of which are small local fertilizer companies, it is possible that these competitors have better access in certain local markets to customers and prospects, an enhanced ability to customize products to a particular region or locality and established local distribution channels within a small region. Furthermore, we may face competition from international producers and traders who import products into China that generally are of higher quality than those produced in the local Chinese market. Although we believe that we have many competitive strengths that differentiate our products and the Bodisen brand, we nevertheless must compete aggressively to maintain and grow our market share. If we are not successful in our marketing and advertising efforts to increase awareness of our brands, our revenues could decline and it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to obtain regulatory or governmental approvals for our products. The manufacture and sale of our agricultural products in the People’s Republic of China is regulated by the People’s Republic of China and the Shaanxi Provincial Government. The legal and regulatory regime governing our industry is evolving, and we may become subject to different, including more stringent, requirements than those currently applicable to our company. Because we must obtain permits and other regulatory approvals for the manufacture of our products, we may be vulnerable to local and national government agencies or other parties who wish to renegotiate the terms and conditions of, or terminate their agreements or other understandings with us, or implement new or more stringent requirements, which may require us to suspend or delay production of our products. For example, we are still delaying the launch of our Mancozeb product line because the Chinese government pesticide office instituted a review of all pesticide production companies. Although our licenses and regulatory filings are current, we have had to suspend the installation of our Mancozeb facility pending the completion of the government review. If we are unable to manufacture and distribute our products, even temporarily, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to the People’s Republic of China The People’s Republic of China’s Economic Policies could affect our Business. Virtually all of our assets are located, and virtually all of our revenues are derived from our operations, in the People’s Republic of China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject, to a significant extent, to the economic, political and legal developments in the People’s Republic of China. While the People’s Republic of China’s economy has experienced significant growth in the past twenty years, such growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall economy of the People’s Republic of China, but they may also have a negative effect on us. For example, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by the government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations. Over the past 20 years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and fluctuating rates of inflation. These factors have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. High inflation may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action that could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products, which could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 The economy of the People’s Republic of China has been changing from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. In recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform and the reduction of state ownership of productive assets, and the establishment of corporate governance in business enterprises; however, a substantial portion of productive assets in the People’s Republic of China are still owned by the Chinese government. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over the People’s Republic of China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, the control of payment of foreign currency- denominated obligations, the setting of monetary policy and the provision of preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Capital outflow policies in the People’s Republic of China may hamper our ability to remit income to the United States. The People’s Republic of China has adopted currency and capital transfer regulations. These regulations may require us to comply with complex regulations for the movement of capital. Although we believe that we are currently in compliance with these regulations, should these regulations or the interpretation of them by courts or regulatory agencies change; we may not be able to remit all income earned and proceeds received in connection with its operations or from the sale of its operating subsidiary to our stockholders. Fluctuation of the Renminbi may indirectly affect our financial condition and your investment by affecting the volume of cross- border money flow. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in the PRC's political and economic conditions. According to the currency website www.xe.com, as of December 31, 2010, $1 = 6.591 Renminbi. As we rely entirely on revenue earned in the PRC, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenue and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we receive from an offering of our securities into Renminbi for Yang Ling’s operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would diminish the value of the proceeds of the offering and this could harm Xi’an Pharmaceuticals’ business, financial condition and results of operations because it would reduce the proceeds available to us for capital investment in proportion to the appreciation of the Renminbi. Thus if we raise 1,000,000 dollars and the Renminbi appreciates against the U.S. dollar by 15%, then the proceeds will be worth only RMB 5,602,350 as opposed to RMB 6,591,000 prior to the appreciation. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our common shares or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi; the U.S. dollar equivalent of the Renminbi we convert would be reduced in proportion to the amount the U.S. dollar appreciates. In addition, the depreciation of significant RMB denominated assets could result in a charge to our income statement and a reduction in the dollar value of these assets. Thus if Xi’an Pharmaceuticals has RMB 1,000,000 in assets and Renminbi is depreciated against the U.S. dollar by 15%, then the assets will be valued at $128,963as opposed to $151,722 prior to the depreciation. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an approximately 17.5% appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar as of December 31, 2009. While the international reaction to the Renminbi revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in the People’s Republic of China. The People’s Republic of China historically has not adopted a Western style of management and financial reporting concepts and practices, modern banking, computer or other control systems. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in the People’s Republic of China. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards. 16 Because most of our directors and all of our officers reside outside of the United States and virtually all of our assets are located in the People’s Republic of China, you may have difficulty enforcing certain rights. Any parties who file litigation against our officers and directors may have difficulty serving their lawsuit and acquiring personal jurisdiction because all of our executive officers and most of our directors reside in the People’s Republic of China. For the same reason, it may be difficult for parties who file litigation against those of our officers and directors who reside in the People’s Republic of China to enforce judgments that a jurisdiction other than the People’s Republic of China enters against them. In addition, because virtually all of our assets are located in the People’s Republic of China, it may be difficult to access those assets to satisfy any monetary judgment that a jurisdiction other than the People’s Republic of China enters against us. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock is quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (the “OTCBB”) in the United States, which may have an unfavorable impact on our stock price and liquidity. Since February 1, 2010, we have been quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (the “OTCBB”) under the symbol “BBCZ.” See Item 5 of this annual report for more information regarding the market for shares of our common stock. The Pink Sheets and the OTCBB are a significantly more limited market than the Amex and the quotation of our shares on the Pink Sheets or OTCBB may result in a less liquid market available for existing and potential stockholders to trade shares of our common stock in the United States. This could depress the trading price of our common stock and could have a long-term adverse impact on our ability to raise capital in the future. The market price for our common stock may be volatile, which could result in a complete loss of your investment. Our common stock is not widely traded or traded in great volume. This was the case even prior to delisting from Amex. Because of the limited trading market and volume, the market price for our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; · market conditions, including new product announcements by us or our competitors, changes in the economic performance or market valuations of competitor companies, as well as acquisition announcements; · additions or departures of key personnel; and · legal and regulatory developments. Volatility in our common stock price may make the value of an investment in our shares more speculative. We could become subject to penny stock regulations and restrictions, which could make it difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares of stock in our company. SEC regulations generally define “penny stocks” as equity securities that have a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exemptions. As of March 25, 2009, the closing bid price for our common stock was $0.25 per share. Although we currently meet the net worth exemption from the “penny stock” definition, no assurance can be given that such exemption will be maintained. If we lose the exemption, our common stock may become subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act, which regulations are commonly referred to as the “Penny Stock Rules.” The Penny Stock Rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers prior to selling penny stocks, which may make it burdensome to conduct transactions in our shares. If our shares become subject to the Penny Stock Rules, it may be difficult to sell shares of our stock, and because it may be difficult to find quotations for shares of our stock, it may be impossible to accurately price an investment in our shares. There can be no assurance that our common stock will continue to qualify for an exemption from the Penny Stock Rules. In any event, even if our common stock continues to remain exempt from the Penny Stock Rules, we remain subject to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act, which gives the SEC the authority to restrict any person from participating in a distribution of a penny stock if the SEC determines that such a restriction would be in the public interest. 17 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 