Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and all information contained in this report before you decide to purchase our common stock. If any of the possible adverse events described below actually occurs, we may be unable to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition and operating results could be harmed. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could decline due to the occurrence of any of the events described below, and you may lose all or part of your investment. We have had a limited operating history that may make it difficult for you to evaluate the potential success of our business and we have a history of incurring losses. We were founded in January 2001 under our former name, Novacea, Inc., and in January 2009 underwent a merger with Transcept Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a privately held company, or TPI, founded in 2002, which is the primary business we currently conduct. Our operations to date have been limited to organizing and staffing, acquiring, developing and securing technology and undertaking preclinical studies and clinical trials. Furthermore, our business is not profitable and has incurred losses in each year since the inception of TPI in 2002. Our net loss for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $3.9 million, $9.3 million and $21.8 million, respectively. We had an accumulated deficit at December 31, 2011 of $100.1 million. We only recently obtained regulatory approval for the commercial sale of our lead product candidate, Intermezzo, from the FDA. We have not demonstrated the ability to meet and adhere to other regulatory standards applicable to an FDA approved product, to conduct sales and marketing activities or to co-promote a product with a collaboration partner, including Purdue Pharma. Consequently, any predictions you make about our future success or viability may not be as accurate as they would be if we had a longer operating history. In addition, we expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future until such time, if ever, that Intermezzo is successfully commercialized by Purdue Pharma and we receive milestone and royalty revenue from our collaboration that exceeds our expenses. For the foreseeable future, we expect our accumulated deficit 21 Table of Contents to increase as we continue our research, development, regulatory and collaboration efforts with respect to Intermezzo both in support of Purdue Pharma and potential collaboration partners outside North America, and with respect to our other product candidate, TO-2061. If Purdue Pharma does not successfully commercialize Intermezzo, or if TO-2061 or future product candidates, if any, do not gain regulatory approval and are not commercialized or do not achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to generate any revenue. We cannot assure you that we will ever be profitable or that we can sustain profitability, even if achieved. If we fail to achieve and maintain profitability, or if we are unable to fund our continuing losses, you could lose all or part of your investment. We are dependent on the commercial success of Intermezzo in the United States for the treatment of middle-of-the-night awakening, which only recently received FDA approval. In November 2011, the FDA granted marketing approval for the commercial sale of Intermezzo in the United States for use as-needed for the treatment of insomnia when a middle-of-the-night awakening is followed by difficulty returning to sleep. We currently have one other product candidate in clinical development, TO-2061, which is being evaluated as a potential adjunctive therapy for patients with OCD who have not adequately responded to standard first-line treatment with currently approved OCD medications and which is currently undergoing a Phase 2 clinical study. In July 2009, we entered into a Collaboration Agreement with Purdue Pharma, which provides Purdue Pharma with the option to commercialize Intermezzo in the United States at its expense. On November 30, 2011, Purdue Pharma notified us that it exercised its option to commercialize Intermezzo and subsequently informed us that it intends to launch commercial sales of Intermezzo in the United States in early April 2012. If Purdue Pharma does not successfully commercialize Intermezzo in the United States, our ability to generate revenue will be jeopardized and, consequently, our business will be seriously harmed. Because we do not have another product candidate that has received regulatory approval for commercial sale, our future success is currently dependent on the successful commercialization of Intermezzo in the United States by Purdue Pharma. We are substantially dependent upon the efforts of Purdue Pharma to commercialize Intermezzo in the United States and will be dependent on the efforts of other collaboration partners if we enter into future strategic collaborations. The success of sales of Intermezzo in the United States will be dependent on the ability of Purdue Pharma to successfully launch and commercialize Intermezzo pursuant to the Collaboration Agreement. The terms of the Collaboration Agreement provide that Purdue Pharma can terminate the agreement for any reason at any time upon advance notice of 180 days. For example, Purdue Pharma may find that the commercial potential of Intermezzo is not sufficient to continue pursuing. If the Collaboration Agreement is terminated, our business and our ability to generate revenue from sales of Intermezzo will be substantially harmed and we will be required to develop our own sales and marketing organization or enter into another strategic collaboration in order to commercialize Intermezzo in the United States. We do not currently have the infrastructure in place or adequate resources to launch a commercial product and implementing such infrastructure would require substantial time and resources and such efforts may not be successful. The manner in which Purdue Pharma launches Intermezzo, including the timing of launch and potential pricing, will have a significant impact on the ultimate success of Intermezzo in the United States, and the success of the overall commercial arrangement with Purdue Pharma. If the launch of commercial sales of Intermezzo in the United States by Purdue Pharma is delayed or prevented, our revenue will suffer and our stock price may decline. Further, if launch and resulting sales of Intermezzo are not deemed successful, our stock price may decline. The outcome of Purdue Pharma commercialization efforts could also have an effect on investors’ perception of potential sales of Intermezzo outside the United States, which could also cause a decline in our stock price and may make it more difficult for us to enter into strategic collaborations outside the United States. 22 Table of Contents Under the Collaboration Agreement, Purdue Pharma is responsible for conducting post-approval studies of Intermezzo and bears the cost associated with such studies. The planning and execution of these studies, if any, will be primarily the responsibility of Purdue Pharma, and may not be carried out in accordance with our preferences, or could yield results that are detrimental to Purdue Pharma’s sales of Intermezzo in the United States or detrimental to our efforts to develop or commercialize Intermezzo outside the United States. We may enter into one or more additional strategic collaborations for the development and commercialization of Intermezzo outside the United States. We may not be able to enter into additional collaborations on acceptable terms, if at all. Our collaboration with Purdue Pharma as our commercial partner for Intermezzo in the United States could also limit the potential collaboration options we have outside the United States or could render potential collaborators less inclined to enter into an agreement with us because of such relationship. Further, we have granted Purdue Pharma and an associated company an option to negotiate with us for a license to commercialize Intermezzo in Mexico and Canada. While these options and subsequent negotiation periods continue, we are prevented from negotiating with and being able to enter into commercialization agreements with other potential strategic partners for the development or commercialization of Intermezzo in such countries. Our ability to receive any significant revenue from TO-2061 or future product candidates, if any, covered by a strategic collaboration will be dependent on the efforts of the collaboration partner and may result in lower levels of income than if we marketed or developed our product candidates entirely on our own. Our collaboration partner may not fulfill its obligations or carry out marketing activities for the product candidates as diligently as we would like. We could also become involved in disputes with our collaboration partner, which could lead to delays in or termination of commercialization programs and time-consuming and expensive litigation or arbitration. If a collaboration partner terminates or breaches its agreement, or otherwise fails to complete its obligations in a timely manner, the chances of successfully developing or marketing our product candidates would be materially and adversely affected. Intermezzo, despite obtaining FDA approval, may never achieve market acceptance, nor may TO-2061 or future product candidates, if any, even if regulatory approval for such product candidates is obtained. Despite obtaining FDA regulatory approval for the commercial sale of Intermezzo, the commercial success of Intermezzo, and TO-2061 or future product candidates, if any, even if regulatory approval is obtained for such candidates, will depend upon, among other things, acceptance by physicians and patients. Market acceptance of, and demand for, any products that we develop and that are commercialized by us or our collaboration partner will depend on many factors, including: • the ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy of Intermezzo or future products for their respective indications; • the ease of use of Intermezzo; • the existence of generic or branded competition for Intermezzo; • the ability to obtain adequate pricing and sufficient insurance coverage and reimbursement; • the availability, relative cost and relative efficacy and safety of alternative and competing treatments; • the effectiveness of our or a collaboration partner’s sales, marketing and distribution strategies; and • the ability to produce commercial quantities sufficient to meet demand. If Intermezzo, TO-2061 and/or future product candidates fail to gain market acceptance, we may be unable to earn sufficient revenue to continue our business. 23 Table of Contents Intermezzo will face substantial competition from companies with established products. Intermezzo has been approved for use as-needed for the treatment of insomnia when a middle-of-the-night awakening is followed by difficulty returning to sleep, an indication that we believe represents an opportunity within the broader insomnia therapeutic market. The insomnia market is large, deeply commercialized and characterized by intense competition among generic products and large, established pharmaceutical companies with well-funded, well-staffed and experienced sales and marketing organizations, as well as far greater name recognition than we or our collaboration partner have. Intermezzo will compete in this large market against well-established branded products with a history of deep market penetration and significant advertising support, as well as with new market entrants and generic competitors selling zolpidem and other sleep aids at a fraction of the price at which we or our collaboration partner plan to sell Intermezzo. We believe that Intermezzo is well positioned as the first sleep aid approved by the FDA specifically for use as needed for the treatment of insomnia when a middle-of-the-night awakening is followed by difficulty returning to sleep. We are not aware of any product candidate that has successfully completed the clinical trials required for approval for such indication. However, currently approved and marketed seven- to eight-hour therapeutics may be prescribed by doctors and used by patients to treat this condition when used to deliver a prophylactic dose of a sleep aid at the beginning of the night. In 2010, we sponsored an epidemiology study conducted by Dr. Ronald Kessler that sought to quantify the extent of the off-label middle-of-the-night use of seven to eight-hour sleep aids. The study suggested that approximately 11% of all hypnotic users sometimes take their sleep aid in the middle of the night in order to return to sleep, and that approximately 50% of those hypnotic users who reported middle-of-the-night awakening as their most bothersome insomnia symptom sometimes take their bedtime sleep aid in the middle of the night. Despite the fact that currently available sleep aids are not approved to be taken in the middle of the night, these findings suggest the possibility that some patients may use, or continue to use, these products, or their low cost generic versions, rather than Intermezzo. In addition, anecdotal evidence suggests that some patients currently split low cost generic tablets for off-label use in the middle of the night, despite the fact that these patients have no instruction as to the proper dose or how long they should stay in bed and refrain from driving. The most directly competitive approved products in the United States are generic forms of Ambien® and Ambien CR®, which were originally developed by sanofi-aventis, and are available from multiple generic manufacturers. EdluarTM, a sublingual tablet containing zolpidem, was launched in the U.S. market by Meda Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in September 2009. ZolpimistTM, an orally administered spray containing zolpidem, was launched by ECR Pharmaceuticals Company, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Hi-Tech Pharmacal Co., Inc., in February 2011. EdluarTM and ZolpimistTM employ the same 10 mg and 5 mg zolpidem doses as generic Ambien® and are designed to be used in the same manner at bedtime to promote sleep onset. Lunesta® (eszopiclone), marketed by Sunovion Pharmaceuticals Inc., a subsidiary of Dainippon-Sumitomo Pharma Co. Ltd., and Rozerem® (ramelteon), marketed by Takeda Pharmaceuticals Company Limited, can similarly treat middle-of-the-night awakenings by providing a prophylactic dose at bedtime in order to avoid a middle-of-the-night awakening. Also, short duration products such as Sonata®, which uses the active ingredient zaleplon and is marketed by King Pharmaceuticals, Inc., have been used off-label for the as-needed treatment of middle-of-the-night awakenings. In September 2010, Somaxon Pharmaceuticals, Inc. announced that its product, Silenor®, became commercially available in the United States. Silenor® is a low dose doxepin formulation intended for use at bedtime for the treatment of both transient (short term) and chronic (long term) insomnia characterized by difficulty with sleep maintenance in both adults and elderly patients. In clinical trials, Silenor® demonstrated maintenance of sleep into the seventh and eighth hours of the night, with no meaningful evidence of next-day residual effects. Other drugs, such as the antidepressant generic trazodone, are also widely prescribed off-label for the treatment of insomnia. 24 Table of Contents Other companies may develop new products to compete with Intermezzo. We are aware of several new products currently in development that are seeking indication statements from the FDA for the treatment of middle-of-the-night awakenings. NovaDel Pharma, Inc. states on its web-site that it has commenced development of a low-dose version of Zolpimist™ for the treatment of middle-of-the-night awakenings with the intent to enter such product candidate into clinical trials, and Somnus Therapeutics Inc. has indicated that it is similarly targeting treatment of middle-of-the-night awakenings with development of its controlled-release zaleplon formulation that would be dosed at bedtime, SKP-1041. Additionally, Alexza Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is developing AZ-007, immediate release zaleplon, for its ability to treat middle-of-the-night awakenings. There are many other companies working to develop new products and other therapies to treat insomnia. Several of these products are in late stage clinical trials. In January 2010, Vanda Pharmaceuticals Inc. received an orphan drug designation from the FDA for VEC-162 (tasimelteon), a melatonin agonist similar to ramelteon, for treatment of non-24 hour sleep/wake disorder in blind individuals without light perception. Vanda may seek approval for additional, broader insomnia indications for this product candidate, or such product candidate, if approved by the FDA, may be prescribed and used off-label to treat other insomnia indications. In May 2010, Merck and Co., Inc. initiated two Phase 3 studies of MK-4305, an orexin receptor antagonist intended for the treatment of insomnia. Furthermore, new developments, including the development of other drug technologies and methods of treating conditions, occur in the biopharmaceutical industry at a rapid pace, and may negatively affect the commercial prospects of Intermezzo. Many potential competitors, either alone or together with their partners, have substantially greater financial resources, research and development programs, clinical trial and regulatory experience, expertise in prosecution of intellectual property rights, and manufacturing, distribution and sales and marketing capabilities than us and our collaboration partner. As a result of such factors, our competitors may: • develop product candidates and market products that are less expensive, safer, more effective or easier to use than Intermezzo; • commercialize competing products before Intermezzo can be launched; • initiate or withstand substantial price competition more successfully than we can; • have greater success in recruiting skilled scientific workers and experienced sales and marketing personnel from the limited pool of available talent; • more effectively negotiate third party licenses and strategic collaborations; and • take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities more readily than us or our collaboration partner. We may require substantial additional funding and may need to curtail operations if we are unable to raise capital when needed. Until such time as Purdue Pharma can commercially launch Intermezzo, we have no source of product revenue. We have a limited operating history and have not yet commercialized any products. We had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $62.4 million at December 31, 2011. We expect our negative cash flows from operations to continue for the foreseeable future as we undertake activities to pursue the commercialization of Intermezzo, develop TO-2061, seek regulatory approval for Intermezzo in other countries and seek additional products and product candidates through business development efforts. We do not know how long it will take to obtain regulatory approval of TO-2061 or any future product candidates, if any, or if such approval is obtainable. We also expect negative cash flows beyond the product launch of Intermezzo. As a result, we will need to generate significant revenue to pay these costs and achieve profitability. We do not know whether or when we will become profitable because of the significant uncertainties with respect to Purdue Pharma’s ability to successfully commercialize Intermezzo and, as a result, our ability to generate revenue from sales of Intermezzo and from our existing and potential future collaborations, if any. 25 Table of Contents If our Collaboration Agreement with Purdue Pharma is terminated or other factors arise, our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities may prove insufficient to fund our operations through the successful commercialization of Intermezzo. Also, the development and potential regulatory approval of additional product candidates will likely require additional funding, which may not be available at the time needed on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We currently believe that our available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and interest income will be sufficient to fund our anticipated levels of operations for at least the next twelve months. However, our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the timing of the commercial launch of Intermezzo by Purdue Pharma; • the ability of Purdue Pharma to successfully commercialize Intermezzo in the United States; • the cost of establishing or contracting for sales and marketing capabilities if we exercise our option to co-promote Intermezzo to psychiatrists in the United States, and potential costs of being required to engage in contracting to replace Purdue Pharma’s primary care sales and marketing capabilities if our existing Collaboration Agreement with Purdue Pharma is terminated; • the extent to which we develop internally, acquire or in-license new products, technologies or businesses; • the rate of progress and cost of our ongoing TO-2061 clinical trial, the need to conduct additional clinical trials and other development activities; • the receipt of milestone and other payments, if any, from Purdue Pharma under the Collaboration Agreement; • the prospect, cost and timing for the development of Intermezzo to obtain regulatory approval for Intermezzo outside the United States; • the terms and timing of any licensing arrangements that we may establish for Intermezzo outside the United States; • the cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; and • the effect of competing technological and market developments. In addition, we may seek to raise additional funds to: • further develop Intermezzo to meet the requirements for regulatory approval of Intermezzo outside the United States; • establish or contract for sales and marketing capabilities if we exercise our option to co-promote Intermezzo, or to build our own sales force if Purdue Pharma does not continue with our collaboration to commercialize Intermezzo in the United States; • continue to develop TO-2061 through clinical trials and other development activities; and • develop internally, acquire or in-license new products, technologies or businesses or to otherwise fund our operations. There can be no assurance that additional funding, if needed, will be available on attractive terms, or at all. Our failure to raise capital as and when needed may require us to significantly curtail one or more of our development, licensing or acquisition programs, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition and our ability to successfully pursue our business strategy. 26 Table of Contents If we choose to exercise our co-promotion option and are unable to establish an effective and profitable sales and marketing infrastructure in the United States, our financial performance could be substantially harmed. In order to commercialize Intermezzo or any other product candidates successfully, we must enter into and maintain strategic collaborations to perform, and/or acquire or internally develop a sales and marketing infrastructure. We have entered into a strategic collaboration for commercialization of Intermezzo in the United States with Purdue Pharma and may develop our own sales force and marketing infrastructure to co-promote Intermezzo to psychiatrists in the United States. If we exercise our co-promotion option and are unable to develop a successful sales and marketing infrastructure to effectively commercialize Intermezzo, our ability to generate additional revenue from potential sales of Intermezzo to psychiatrists would be substantially harmed. Even if we develop an effective sales and marketing organization, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue from our additional co-promotion royalties from Purdue Pharma to make that operation profitable during the first several years of operation, or at all. The development of sales and marketing infrastructure is difficult and time consuming, and requires substantial financial and other resources. Factors that may hinder our efforts to develop an internal sales and marketing infrastructure include: • inability to recruit, retain and effectively manage adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; • the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or convince adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe Intermezzo or future products, if approved; • the abundance of well branded, competing products sold and distributed by large established organizations; • the lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and • unforeseen delays, costs and expenses associated with creating a sales and marketing organization. We cannot transfer or assign to a third party our option to co-promote Intermezzo to psychiatrists in the United States, except in a limited circumstance at the discretion of Purdue Pharma. The Collaboration Agreement prohibits the transfer or assignment of our co-promotion option to third parties, except in a limited circumstance at the discretion of Purdue Pharma. The Collaboration Agreement provides that if we have not exercised the co-promote option prior to an acquisition of us or a change in control, the co-promote option will terminate. In the event that we have exercised our co-promote option and have met certain sales criteria, Purdue Pharma maintains full discretion over our ability to transfer or assign the co-promote option to a third party in the event of an acquisition of us or change in control. The Collaboration Agreement also prohibits any transfer or assignment of our co-promote option to a third party, except in the limited circumstance described in the foregoing sentence. The inability to transfer or assign our co-promote option to a third party reduces our flexibility in monetizing the option and may decrease the value of Transcept to potential acquirors. If we delay exercising our co-promotion option for Intermezzo or commencing co-promotion activities after exercise, the royalties for net sales of Intermezzo that we may receive under the co-promotion option are reduced. The Collaboration Agreement provides that we can exercise our co-promotion option at any point before or on the last day of the fortieth calendar month after commercial launch of Intermezzo in the United States. For example, if Intermezzo is launched in early April of 2012, we can exercise our co-promote option on or before August 31, 2015. The Collaboration Agreement also provides that we cannot begin co-promoting Intermezzo until at least 12 months following the commercial launch of Intermezzo in the United States. In the event that we exercise our co-promotion option in the first four months of a calendar year, we cannot commence co-promotion activities until the later of the one year anniversary following the commercial launch of Intermezzo in the United 27 Table of Contents States by Purdue Pharma or the first month of the next calendar year. In the event that we exercise our option after the fourth calendar month of the year, we cannot commence co-promotion activities until 15 months from the date we exercise our option. If we choose to delay the exercise of our co-promote option or commencing co-promotion activities after exercising our option, our royalty percentage on sales of Intermezzo pursuant to the option decreases on a monthly basis from approximately 40%, if we begin co-promoting Intermezzo in the first month of the year following the commercial launch of Intermezzo in the United States, down to approximately 22%, if we begin co-promoting in the 55th month following the commercial launch. A delay in exercise of our co-promotion option or the commencement of co-promotion activities following exercise of our option will adversely affect the revenue we can generate pursuant to our co-promotion right. Governmental and third party payors may impose restrictions or reimbursement or pricing controls that could limit product revenue. The continuing efforts of government and third party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means may reduce potential revenue we may receive from sales of Intermezzo. In particular, third party insurance coverage may not be available to patients for Intermezzo or other future products, if any, especially in light of the availability of low-cost generic zolpidem therapeutics, regardless of the fact that such products are not specifically designed or indicated to specifically treat middle-of-the-night awakening. Government and third party payors could also impose price controls and other conditions that must be met by patients prior to providing coverage for use of our products. For example, insurers may establish a “step-edit” system that requires a patient to utilize a lower price alternative product prior to becoming eligible for reimbursement of a higher price product. If government and third party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for our products, or if price controls, prior authorization or step-edit systems are enacted, our royalties and/or product revenue will suffer. In addition, the Affordable Care Act requires manufacturers of branded prescription drugs to pay an annual fee to the Federal government beginning in 2011. Each manufacturer’s fee will be calculated based on the dollar value of its sales to certain federal programs and the aggregate dollar value of all branded prescription drug sales by covered manufacturers. A manufacturer’s fee will be its prorated share of the industry’s total fee obligation (approximately $2.5 billion in 2011 and set to increase in following years), based on the ratio of its sales to the total sales by covered entities. We cannot predict our share of this fee because it will be determined in part on other entities’ sales to the relevant programs. Negative publicity and documented side effects concerning products used to treat patients in the insomnia market may harm commercialization of Intermezzo. Products containing zolpidem, the active ingredient in Intermezzo, are widely marketed. Zolpidem use has been linked to negative effects, such as sleepwalking and amnesia, and has the potential to cause physical or psychological dependence. Furthermore, zolpidem is classified as a Schedule IV controlled substance under the Controlled Substances Act, and is subject to certain packaging, prescription and purchase volume limitations. There can be no assurance that additional negative publicity or increased governmental controls on the use of zolpidem or other compounds used in products for the insomnia market would not inhibit or prevent commercialization of Intermezzo. Furthermore, negative information arising out of clinical trials or publicity concerning zolpidem and other hypnotic pharmaceuticals could cause the FDA to make approval of new products for the insomnia market more difficult, by requiring additional or different non-clinical or clinical studies or taking other actions, out of safety or other concerns, or could lead to reduced consumer usage of sleep aids, including zolpidem products and Intermezzo. For example, based on our interactions with the FDA, it is possible that the FDA may take steps to warn patients that the use of other zolpidem products may negatively affect patient driving ability the morning after dosing. Intermezzo, and any other future product candidate for which we may receive regulatory approval from the FDA, will be subject to ongoing regulatory requirements and may face regulatory or enforcement action. Intermezzo, as well as any other product candidate for which we receive regulatory approval, together with related third party manufacturing facilities and processes, post-approval clinical data, and advertising and 28 Table of Contents promotional activities for the product, will be subject to significant review, oversight and ongoing and changing regulation by the FDA. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements may subject us, or Purdue Pharma, to administrative and judicially-imposed sanctions. These may include warning letters, adverse publicity, civil and criminal penalties, injunctions, product seizures or detention, product recalls, total or partial suspension of production, refusal to approve pending product marketing applications and withdrawal of product approvals. Even if we receive regulatory approval to market a particular product candidate, the approval could be conditioned on our conducting additional costly post-approval studies or could limit the indicated uses included in our labeling. Moreover, the product may later cause adverse effects that limit or prevent its widespread use, force us or our marketing partner to withdraw it from the market or impede or delay the ability to obtain regulatory approvals in additional countries. The FDA has also requested that all manufacturers of sedative-hypnotic pharmaceutical products modify their product labeling to include strong language concerning potential risks. These risks include severe allergic reactions and complex sleep-related behaviors, which include sleep-driving. The FDA also recommended that pharmaceutical manufacturers of sedative-hypnotics conduct clinical studies to investigate the frequency with which sleep-driving and other complex behaviors occur in association with individual drug products, and to deliver to the FDA information related to the effect, if any, their drug products may have on next day driving safety. It is unclear how and to what extent, if any, these requests and recommendations will affect Intermezzo. If manufacturers supplying Intermezzo or any other product candidate fail to produce in the volumes and quality that are required on a timely basis, or to comply with stringent regulations applicable to pharmaceutical manufacturers, there may be delays in the commercialization of or an inability to meet demand for Intermezzo or delays in the development of future product candidates, if any, and we may lose potential revenue. Neither we nor Purdue Pharma manufacture Intermezzo, nor do we manufacture TO-2061, and we do not currently have plans to develop the capacity to manufacture either product. We have a primary manufacturing and supply agreement with Patheon, Inc. to manufacture a supply of Intermezzo for use outside the United States, and Purdue Pharma has entered into an agreement with Patheon to manufacture and supply Intermezzo for use in the United States. We and Purdue Pharma currently have arrangements to use Sharp Corporation as a primary packager of Intermezzo. Purdue Pharma relies upon SPI Pharma, Inc. as a supplier for certain key excipients contained within Intermezzo and as the sole supplier for one such excipient, Pharmaburst®. If we obtain approval to sell Intermezzo outside the U.S. territory, we would likely also rely on SPI Pharma as a supplier for the same excipients. In addition, Purdue Pharma relies upon Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd., API Division (formerly Plantex USA, Inc.) as the sole source for a special form of zolpidem tartrate, which is the active pharmaceutical ingredient of Intermezzo. Purdue Pharma is dependent upon these manufacturers for the commercial supply of Intermezzo in the United States. The realization of any of the risks described here would have a significant impact on Purdue Pharma’s commercialization efforts for Intermezzo and our ability to generate revenue under the Collaboration Agreement. In the event we commercialize Intermezzo outside the U.S. territory, we would likely also rely on the same key manufacturers and suppliers as Purdue Pharma intends to use to commercialize Intermezzo in the U.S. territory. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling up initial production. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control, including stability of the product candidate and quality assurance testing, shortages of qualified personnel, and compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. Third-party manufacturers and key suppliers may not perform as agreed, may terminate their agreements, or may experience manufacturing difficulties due to resource constraints or as a result of labor disputes, unstable political environments at foreign facilities or financial difficulties. For example, Purdue Pharma’s supplier of zolpidem tartrate with its manufacturing facility in Israel may face geopolitical risk 29 Table of Contents that could prevent it from providing supplies from such facility. Additionally, third-party manufacturers and key suppliers may become subject to claims of infringement of intellectual property rights of others, which could cause them to incur substantial expenses, and, if such claims were successful, could cause them to incur substantial damages or cease production of our products or product components. In addition, several of the suppliers of Intermezzo have only one facility qualified to supply key components of Intermezzo, and transferring such supply to an alternate site could take substantial time and resources. Any interruption of supply from such facilities could materially impair the ability to manufacture Intermezzo, which may harm Purdue Pharma’s ability to commercialize Intermezzo in the United States and impair our ability to generate revenue from Intermezzo through our collaboration with Purdue Pharma. Furthermore, in the event we commercialize Intermezzo outside the U.S. territory, we would likely also rely on the same key manufacturers and suppliers as Purdue Pharma intends to use to commercialize Intermezzo in the U.S. territory. These manufacturers and suppliers may also choose, or be required, to seek licenses from the claimant, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If these manufacturers or key suppliers were to encounter any of these difficulties, or otherwise fail to comply with their contractual obligations, our ability to launch Intermezzo in the United States through our collaboration with Purdue Pharma or, if we choose to commercialize Intermezzo accordingly, outside of the United States, or any other product candidate, if approved, would be jeopardized. Even if we were able to launch a product, these difficulties could cause increases in the prices we or our collaborators pay for supply of such product and its components which could substantially hinder or prevent commercialization efforts. In addition, all manufacturers and suppliers of pharmaceutical products must comply with current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMP, requirements enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. The FDA is likely to conduct inspections of third-party manufacturer and key supplier facilities as part of its review of any of our NDAs. If third-party manufacturers and key suppliers are not in compliance with cGMP requirements, it may result in a delay of approval, particularly if these sites are supplying single source ingredients required for the manufacture of Intermezzo. These cGMP requirements include quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. Furthermore, regulatory qualifications of manufacturing facilities are applied on the basis of the specific facility being used to produce supplies. As a result, if one of these manufacturers shifts production from one facility to another, the new facility must go through a complete regulatory qualification process and be approved by regulatory authorities prior to being used for commercial supply. Manufacturers may be unable to comply with these cGMP requirements and with other FDA, state and foreign regulatory requirements. A failure to comply with these requirements may result in fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall, or withdrawal of product approval. If the safety of any quantities supplied is compromised due to a third-party manufacturer or key supplier failure to adhere to applicable laws or for other reasons, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates and, even if such approval is obtained, any resulting products may not be successfully commercialized. There are no alternate manufacturers qualified at this time with respect to the commercial supply of Intermezzo, nor are there alternate manufacturers identified or qualified with respect to the commercial supply of several of the key ingredients and packaging materials used in Intermezzo. If manufacturers are required to be changed, prior approval by the FDA and comparable foreign regulators would be required and Purdue Pharma would likely incur significant costs and expend significant efforts to educate the new manufacturer with respect to, or to help the new manufacturer independently develop, the processes necessary for production. If we exercise our right to co-promote Intermezzo to psychiatrists, we may also incur such costs and expend such efforts to ensure commercial supply of Intermezzo. Manufacturing and supply switching costs in the pharmaceutical industry can be very high, and switching manufacturers or key suppliers can frequently take 12 to 18 months to complete, although in certain circumstances such a switch may be significantly delayed or prevented by regulatory and other factors. Any of these factors could cause the delay or suspension of commercialization of Intermezzo, TO-2061 or any other product candidate that we may develop, hinder or delay future regulatory submissions and/or required regulatory approvals or, entail higher costs or result in an inability to effectively commercialize our products. 30 Table of Contents Furthermore, if manufacturers fail to deliver the required commercial quantities of raw materials, including the active pharmaceutical ingredient, key excipients or finished product on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, we or our strategic partners, including Purdue Pharma, would be unable to meet demand for our products and we would lose potential revenue. Our future clinical trials may fail to demonstrate adequately the safety and efficacy of TO-2061 or any future product candidates, which could prevent or delay regulatory approval and commercialization. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of TO-2061 or future product candidates, we must demonstrate through lengthy, complex and expensive preclinical testing and clinical trials that the product candidate is both safe and effective for use in each target indication. Our trial results may be negatively affected by factors that had not been fully anticipated prior to commencement of the trial. Such trials may fail to demonstrate efficacy in the treatment of the intended disorder or may fail to demonstrate that a product candidate is safe when used as directed or even when misused. The results obtained in completed clinical trials and non-clinical studies may not be predictive of results from ongoing or future trials. Actual results of any future studies may differ materially from past studies due to various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the following: • identical study designs evaluating identical endpoints may produce different study results; • different study designs intended to measure the same or similar endpoints may produce different results; • different studies in different or progressively larger patient populations could reveal more frequent, more severe or additional side effects that were not seen in earlier studies; and • the unpredictable nature of clinical trials generally. Although we seek to design our clinical trial protocols to address known factors that may negatively affect results, there can be no assurance that protocol designs will be adequate or that factors that we may or may not be aware of or anticipate will not have a negative effect on the results of our clinical trials. Once a study has commenced, we may voluntarily suspend or terminate the study if at any time we believe that there is an unacceptable safety risk to patients. Further, side effects could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of our product candidates and could result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities stopping further development of or denying approval of our product candidates. Based on results at any stage of clinical trials, we may decide to repeat or redesign a trial, modify our regulatory strategy or even discontinue development of one or more of our product candidates. For example, ondansetron is approved for episodic use. It has not been clinically determined what risks could be associated with the long term or chronic use of ondansetron in treatment resistant OCD. In addition, from time to time the FDA will review the safety of an approved product, molecule or therapeutic class. In a recent review of ondansetron the FDA revised the Important Safety Information related to ondansetron and cited a risk of QT prolongation, or irregular heart rhythm. These types of safety reviews by the FDA, or new clinical findings generated by the scientific community, could cause Transcept to modify its clinical study plans for ondansetron and other programs, or abandon such programs altogether. If our product candidates are not shown to be both safe and effective in clinical trials, the resulting delays in developing other compounds and conducting associated non-clinical testing and clinical trials, as well as the potential need for additional financing, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing could result in increased costs to us and delay our ability to generate revenue. We do not know whether future clinical trials will begin on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. The commencement and completion of clinical trials can be disrupted for a variety of reasons, including difficulties in: • recruiting and enrolling patients to participate in a clinical trial, a problem we are currently experiencing with our TO-2061 clinical trial; • addressing issues raised by the FDA or other regulatory authorities regarding safety, design, scope and objectives of clinical studies; • obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; • reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical research organizations and trial sites; • manufacturing sufficient quantities of a product candidate; and • obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site. A clinical trial may also be suspended or terminated by us or the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: • failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or in accordance with our clinical protocols; • inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial site by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; • unforeseen safety issues; and • inadequate patient enrollment or lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. In addition, changes in regulatory requirements and guidance may occur and we may need to amend clinical trial protocols to reflect these changes, which could impact the cost, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial. If we experience delays in the commencement or completion of our clinical trials, the commercial prospects for our product candidates and our ability to generate product revenue will be harmed. Many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also lead to the denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate. The commercial success of Intermezzo, as well as TO-2061, depends on meeting the conditions for market exclusivity under Section 505 of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FFDCA. We have been granted approval of a new drug application (NDA) for Intermezzo submitted under Section 505(b)(2) of the FFDCA, enacted as part of the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, otherwise known as the Hatch-Waxman Act. Section 505(b)(2) permits applicants to rely in part on clinical and non-clinical studies conducted by third parties. Specifically, with respect to Intermezzo, we relied in part on third party data concerning zolpidem, which is the active ingredient in Intermezzo and in the previously approved insomnia products Ambien® and Ambien CR®. We also plan to seek approval of TO-2061, which is at an earlier stage of development, under a Section 505(b)(2) application. In connection with the approval of the Intermezzo NDA, the FDA has granted three years of Hatch-Waxman marketing exclusivity for Intermezzo. Under this form of exclusivity, the FDA is precluded from approving an abbreviated new drug application (ANDA) for a generic of Intermezzo, i.e., a product candidate that the FDA views as a therapeutically equivalent drug product having the same conditions of use as Intermezzo (for example, the same labeling, the same dosage form and route of administration, the same strength and the same bioavailability as Intermezzo). Marketing exclusivity for Intermezzo also precludes the FDA from approving 32 Table of Contents 505(b)(2) applications for proposed drug products having the same or similar conditions of use as Intermezzo, including applications that rely on Intermezzo as the reference product. The exclusivity lasts for a period of three years from the date of Intermezzo approval, or until November 2014, although the FDA may accept and commence review of ANDAs and 505(b)(2) NDAs during the three-year period. This form of exclusivity may not prevent FDA from approving an original NDA that relies only on its own data to support the approval. We rely on third parties to conduct our non-clinical and clinical trials. If these third parties do not perform as contractually required or as otherwise expected, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our current and future product candidates, if any. We do not currently conduct non-clinical and clinical trials on our own and instead rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories, to assist us with our non-clinical and clinical trials. We, and our third parties, are also required to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as Good Clinical Practice, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their duties with regard to our products in development or fail to successfully carry out their duties to us as they relate to meeting future regulatory obligations or expected deadlines, if the third parties need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the data these third parties obtained during the development of a product candidate is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our non-clinical development activities or clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate. We or any future partners may never receive regulatory approval to market or commercialize Intermezzo outside of the United States. In order to market and commercialize Intermezzo outside of the United States, we and any future partners must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional pre-clinical studies and clinical trials and additional administrative review periods. For example, European regulatory authorities generally require clinical testing comparing the efficacy of the new drug to an existing drug prior to granting approval. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks detailed in this “Risk Factor” section regarding FDA approval in the United States, as well as other risks. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in other countries. We may face potential product liability exposure, and if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability for a product candidate and may have to limit such candidate’s commercialization. The use of a product candidate in clinical trials and the sale of any products for which we obtain marketing approval, including Intermezzo, exposes us to the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims might be brought against us by consumers, health care providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling our products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against these claims, we will incur substantial liabilities. We are also obligated under certain circumstances to indemnify suppliers and others with whom we have contractual relationships for product liability claims such entities might incur with respect to our products and product candidates. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for Intermezzo or future products, if any; • impairment of our business reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; 33 Table of Contents • costs of related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; • loss of revenue; and • the inability to commercialize future product candidates. Under our Collaboration Agreement with Purdue Pharma, we remain liable for 50% of the cost of defending against any product liability or personal or economic injury claims. In addition, we and Purdue Pharma have agreed to allocate any losses for such claims on a comparative fault basis but in the absence of such determination have agreed to split such losses equally. Although we currently have product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials with limits that we believe are customary and adequate to provide us with coverage for foreseeable risks associated with our development efforts, this insurance coverage may not reimburse us or may be insufficient to reimburse us for the actual expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval for Intermezzo, but we may be unable to obtain such product liability insurance on commercially reasonable terms. We depend on key personnel and if we are not able to retain them, our business will suffer. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff, including but not limited to Glenn A. Oclassen, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Nikhilesh N. Singh, Ph.D., our Senior Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer. The competition for skilled personnel among biopharmaceutical companies in the San Francisco Bay Area is intense and the employment services of our scientific, management and other executive officers may be terminated at-will. If we lose one or more of these key employees, our ability to implement and execute our business strategy successfully could be seriously harmed. Replacing key employees may be difficult and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in the biopharmaceutical industry with the breadth of skills and experience required to develop, gain regulatory approval of and commercialize products successfully. We do not carry key man life insurance on any of our key personnel other than Dr. Singh. The commercial success, if any, of Intermezzo and TO-2061 depends, in part, on certain patent rights and rights we are seeking through certain patent applications. The potential commercial success of Intermezzo depends in part on two issued patents from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, covering the formulation and use of Intermezzo that expire no earlier than February 2025. The commercial success of Intermezzo may also depend upon a patent application that would cover middle-of-the-night use of zolpidem to treat insomnia at the time of awakening. In addition, we have pending certain foreign equivalent patent applications. We also have pending applications covering methods of treating OCD with TO-2061 in combination with first-line pharmacotherapy, and optionally atypical antipsychotic drugs. The active, and many of the inactive, ingredients in Intermezzo and TO-2061, including generically manufactured zolpidem and ondansetron, respectively, have been known and used for many years. The zolpidem and ondansetron compositions of matter are no longer subject to patent protection. Accordingly, certain of our patents for Intermezzo and TO-2061 are directed to the particular formulations of its ingredients. Also, for both Intermezzo and TO-2061, we are seeking patent protection for new uses of such compounds. Although we believe our formulations and the use of Intermezzo and TO-2061 are patentable, and patents covering or arising from such product candidates have the potential to provide a competitive advantage, such patents may not prevent others from marketing formulations using the same active and inactive ingredients in similar but different formulations. Moreover, if our patents are successfully challenged and ruled to be invalid, we would be exposed to direct competition from low-priced generic products. 34 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that our pending patent applications and applications we may file in the future, or those applications we may license from third parties, will result in patents being issued in a timely manner, or at all. Even if patents issue, the claims in such patents may not issue in a form that will be advantageous to us, may not cover Intermezzo or TO-2061 and their unique features, and may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages. For instance, with Intermezzo, competitors may be able to engineer around our formulation patents and applications with alternate formulations that deliver therapeutic effects sufficiently similar to Intermezzo to warrant approval under existing FDA standards for generic product approvals. Accordingly, other drug companies may be able to develop generic versions of our products even if we are able to maintain our current proprietary rights. Alternatively, other drug companies can challenge the validity of our patents and seek to gain marketing approval for generic versions of our products. For example, drug makers may attempt to introduce low-dose zolpidem or ondansetron products similar to our products immediately after the expiration of Hatch-Waxman marketing exclusivity and prior to the expiration of patents that may be issued relating to our respective products by challenging the validity of our patents or certifying that their competitive products do not infringe our patents. Furthermore, among other limitations, our patent applications that protect Intermezzo are limited in scope to certain uses and formulations of zolpidem, so potential competitors could develop similar products using active pharmaceutical ingredients other than zolpidem. Any patents that have been allowed, we have obtained or do obtain may be challenged by re-examination, opposition, or other administrative proceeding, or may be challenged in litigation, and such challenges could result in a determination that the patent is invalid and/or unenforceable. Failure to obtain effective patent protection for Intermezzo or TO-2061, or future product candidates, if any, would allow for products to be marketed by competitors that would undermine sales, marketing and collaboration efforts for our product candidates, and reduce or eliminate our revenue. In addition, both the patent application process and the process of managing patent disputes can be time consuming and expensive. If we are unable to maintain and enforce our proprietary rights, we may not be able to compete effectively or operate profitably. Our commercial success will depend, in part, on obtaining and maintaining patent protection, trade secret protection and regulatory protection of our proprietary technology and information as well as successfully defending against third party challenges to our proprietary technology and information. We will be able to protect our proprietary technology and information from use by third parties only to the extent that we have valid and enforceable patents, trade secrets or regulatory protection to cover them and we have exclusive rights to utilize them. Our commercial success will continue to depend in part on the patent rights we own, the patent rights we have licensed, the patent rights of our suppliers and the patent rights we plan to obtain related to future products we may market. Our success also depends on our and our licensors’ and suppliers’ ability to maintain these patent rights against third party challenges to their validity, scope or enforceability. Further, if we were to in-license intellectual property, we may not fully control the patent prosecution of the patents and patent applications we have licensed. There is a risk that licensors to us will not devote the same resources or attention to the prosecution of the licensed patent applications as we would if we controlled the prosecution of the patent applications, and the resulting patent protection, if any, may not be as strong or comprehensive as if we had prosecuted the applications ourselves. The patent positions of biopharmaceutical companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in such companies’ patents has emerged to date in the United States. The patent situation outside the United States is even more uncertain. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States or other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in third party patents. For example: • we or our licensors might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by pending patent applications and issued patents; 35 Table of Contents • we or our licensors might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • it is possible that none of our pending patent applications or any pending patent applications of our licensors will result in issued patents; • our patents, if issued, and the issued patents of our licensors may not provide a basis for commercially viable products, or may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged and invalidated by third parties; • we may not develop additional proprietary technologies or product candidates that are patentable; or • the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we seek to protect confidential information, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, contractors, or scientific and other advisors, they may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. If we were to enforce a claim that a third party had illegally obtained and was using our trade secrets, it would be expensive and time consuming, and the outcome would be unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. If we are not able to defend the patent or trade secret protection position of our technologies and product candidates, then we will not be able to exclude competitors from developing or marketing competing products, and we may not generate enough revenue from product sales, if any, to justify the cost of development of our product candidates and to achieve or maintain profitability. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of other parties, such litigation will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome would have a significant adverse effect on our business. Although we believe that we would have valid defenses to allegations that our current product candidates, production methods and other activities infringe the valid and enforceable intellectual property rights of any third parties of which we are aware, we cannot be certain that a third party will not challenge our position in the future. Other parties may own patent rights that might be infringed by our products or other activities, or other parties may claim that their patent rights are infringed by excipients manufactured by others and contained in our products. There has been, and we believe that there will continue to be, significant litigation and demands for licenses in the life sciences industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Competitors or other patent holders may assert that our products and the methods we employ are covered by their patents. These parties could bring claims against us that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful against us, could cause us to pay substantial damages or possibly prevent us from commercializing our product candidates. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us, we could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of the product or product candidate that is the subject of the suit. As a result of patent infringement claims, or in order to avoid potential claims, we may choose to seek, or be required to seek, a license from the third party and would most likely be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we were able to obtain a license, the rights may be non-exclusive, which would give competitors access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we or our collaborators are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. This could harm our business significantly. These risks of intellectual property infringement are similarly faced by our suppliers and collaborators, which could hinder or prevent them from manufacturing or commercializing our products. 36 Table of Contents We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. In the event a competitor infringes upon one of our patents or other intellectual property rights, litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenge, even if successful, could be expensive and time consuming and could require significant time and attention from management. Under the Collaboration Agreement, Purdue Pharma has the right, but not the obligation, to bring action against a party engaged in infringement of our patents covering Intermezzo, and, we are required to share 40% of the costs related to any such action up to an aggregate cap of $1.0 million per calendar year and $4.0 million over the term of the agreement. We may not have sufficient resources to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenges from others. The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by extensive litigation and administrative proceedings over patent and other intellectual property rights. We could therefore become subject to litigation that could be costly, result in the diversion of management’s time and efforts, and require us to pay damages. Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. Our competitors may assert that they own U.S. or foreign patents containing claims that cover our products, components of our products, or the methods we employ in making or using our products. In addition, we may become a party to an interference proceeding declared by the USPTO to determine the priority of inventions. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware, which may later result in issued patents that contain claims that cover our products. There could also be existing patents, of which we are unaware, that contain claims that cover one or more components of our products. As the number of participants in our industry increases, the possibility of patent infringement claims against us also increases. Any interference proceeding, litigation, or other assertion of claims against us may cause us to incur substantial costs, place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of management from our core business and harm our reputation. If the relevant patents were upheld as valid and enforceable and we were found to infringe, we could be required to pay substantial damages and/or royalties and could be prevented from selling our products unless we could obtain a license or were able to redesign our products to avoid infringement. Any such license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. If we fail to obtain any required licenses or make any necessary changes to our products or technologies, we may be unable to make, use, sell, or otherwise commercialize one or more of our products. In addition, if we were found to willfully infringe, we could be required to pay treble damages, among other penalties. If we fail to acquire, develop and commercialize additional product candidates or approved products, we may be unable to grow our business. As part of our growth strategy we intend to seek to expand our product pipeline by exploring the in-licensing, acquisition, development and commercialization of product candidates and approved products in the field of neuroscience. Because our internal research and development capabilities are limited, and because new product approvals can take several years, we may be dependent upon pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic scientists and other researchers to sell or license products or technology to us. The success of this strategy depends partly upon our ability to identify and select promising product candidates and approved products, negotiate licensing or acquisition agreements with their current owners and finance these arrangements, including via collaboration and development arrangements with third parties. The process of proposing, negotiating and implementing a license or acquisition of a product candidate or approved product is lengthy and complex. We compete for acquisition and license agreements with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and academic research institutions, including those with substantially greater financial, marketing, sales and other resources. We have limited resources to identify and execute the acquisition or in-licensing of third party products, businesses and technologies and integrate them into our current infrastructure. Moreover, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions or licensing 37 Table of Contents opportunities that are never completed, or we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such efforts. We may not be able to acquire the rights to additional product candidates or approved products on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. In addition, even if we generate interest in an acquisition or in-license of a product candidate or approved product, other companies may have stronger relationships with third parties with whom we are interested in collaborating and/or may have more established histories of developing and commercializing products. As a result, they may have a competitive advantage in entering into collaboration and development arrangements with such third parties. Further, any product candidate that we acquire may require additional development efforts prior to commercial sale, including pre-clinical or clinical testing and approval by the FDA and applicable foreign regulatory authorities. All product candidates are prone to risks of failure typical of pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that a product candidate will not be shown to be sufficiently safe and effective for approval by regulatory authorities. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that any products that we develop or approved products that we acquire will be manufactured or sold profitably or achieve market acceptance. If we are unable to acquire or in-license additional product candidates or approved products and successfully develop and commercialize them, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. If we fail to comply with our obligations in the agreements under which we license rights to products or technology from third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. We are a party to a number of agreements that include technology licenses that are important to our business and expect to enter into additional licenses in the future. For example, we hold licenses from SPI relating to key excipients used in the manufacture of Intermezzo. If we fail to comply with these agreements, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license, in which event we and our collaboration partners would not be able to market products covered by the license, including Intermezzo. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of former employers. Certain of our employees were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we ourselves have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our or a collaboration partner’s ability to develop or commercialize certain potential products, which could severely harm our business. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. If our agreements with employees, consultants, advisors and corporate partners fail to protect our intellectual property, proprietary information or trade secrets, it could have a significant adverse effect on us. We have taken steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology by entering into confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, advisors and corporate partners. However, such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements, and we may not be able to prevent such unauthorized disclosure. Monitoring unauthorized disclosure is difficult, and we do not know whether the steps we have taken to prevent such disclosure are, or will be, adequate. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. 38 Table of Contents Our operations involve hazardous materials, which could subject us to significant liabilities. Our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals. Our operations produce hazardous waste products. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge or injury from these materials. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials. We could be subject to civil damages in the event of an improper or unauthorized release of, or exposure of individuals, including employees, to hazardous materials. In addition, claimants may sue us for injury or contamination that results from our use of these materials and our liability may exceed our total assets. We maintain limited insurance for the use of hazardous materials which may not be adequate to cover any claims. Compliance with environmental and other laws and regulations may be expensive and current or future regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts. Risks related to our common stock We may fail to meet publicly announced financial guidance or other expectations about our business, which would cause our stock to decline in value. There are a number of reasons why we might fail to meet financial guidance or other expectations about our business, including, but not limited to, the following: • delays or unexpected difficulties in Purdue Pharma’s efforts to commercially launch Intermezzo in the United States; • delays or unexpected changes in Purdue Pharma’s plan to invest approximately $100 million to support sales and marketing during the first year of Intermezzo commercialization; • the effectiveness of the sales, marketing and distribution efforts by Purdue Pharma in the United States and overall success of Purdue Pharma’s commercialization efforts in the United States; • lower than expected pricing and reimbursement levels, or no reimbursement at all, for Intermezzo in the United States; • the use of currently available sleep aids that are not approved to be taken in the middle of the night; • negative developments or setbacks in our efforts to seek marketing approval for Intermezzo outside of the United States; • current and future competitive products that have or obtain greater acceptance in the market than Intermezzo; • if only a subset of or no affected patients respond to therapy with Intermezzo or future products, if any; • negative publicity about the results of our clinical studies, or those of others with similar or related products may reduce demand for Intermezzo or future products, if any; • the inability to sell a product at the price we expect; or • the inability to supply enough product to meet demand; If we fail to meet our revenue and/or expense projections and/or other financial guidance for any reason, our stock could decline in value. Our stock price is volatile. The market price of our common stock is subject to significant fluctuations. During the 12 month period ended December 31, 2011, the sales price of our common stock on The NASDAQ Global Market ranged from a high of $11.88 in June 2011 to a low of $2.58 in August 2011. Market prices for securities of early-stage pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other life sciences companies have historically been particularly volatile. The 39 Table of Contents volatility of the market price of our common stock is exacerbated by the low trading volume of our common stock and the high proportion of our shares held by insiders. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: • the perception of our prospects for successful commercialization of Intermezzo by Purdue Pharma, including the costs associated with the launch and the expected timing of the launch; • announcements by Purdue Pharma regarding the commercialization of Intermezzo; • the termination by Purdue Pharma of the Collaboration Agreement, or the termination of other future collaboration or partnering agreements; • the failure of any product candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success, or the perception by investors that commercial success may not be achieved; • issues in manufacturing Intermezzo, or other approved products, if any, or product candidates; • the results of current and any future clinical trials of our product candidates, such as our ongoing Phase 2 trial of TO-2061; • the entry into, or termination of, key agreements, including additional commercial partner agreements; • the initiation of, material developments in, or conclusion of litigation to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights or defend against the intellectual property rights of others; • announcements by commercial partners or competitors of new commercial products, clinical progress or the lack thereof, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; • adverse publicity relating to the insomnia market, including with respect to other products and potential products in such market; • the introduction of technological innovations or new therapies that compete with our potential products; • the loss of key employees; • changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any, who cover our common stock; • future sales of our common stock; • general and industry-specific economic conditions that may affect our research and development expenditures; • changes in the structure of health care payment systems, including changes to prescription drug reimbursement levels; and • period-to-period fluctuations in financial results. Moreover, the stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about us, our business or our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us, our business and our stock. As of December 31, 2011, we had research 40 Table of Contents coverage by three securities analysts. If any of the analysts who cover us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research regarding us or our business model, technology or stock performance, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, the unpredictability of our financial results likely reduces the certainty, and therefore reliability, of the forecasts by securities or industry analysts of our future financial results, adding to the potential volatility of our stock price. Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline and impede our ability to raise capital. Our common stock is closely held. Our executive officers and directors beneficially own or control approximately 25.3% of our approximately 13.9 million outstanding shares of common stock as of December 31, 2011 and an additional 23.2% is beneficially owned by venture capital firms in which two of our directors are partners. Significant portions of these shares are held by a small number of stockholders. In addition, other investors not otherwise affiliated with us beneficially own a significant number of shares of our common stock based on filings made with the SEC. All of our outstanding shares of common stock are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the federal securities laws, unless held or purchased by our “affiliates” as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. Also, some stockholders affiliated with our directors maintain rights with respect to the registration of the sale of their shares of common stock with the SEC. The shares authorized for issuance under our stock option plans and employee stock purchase plan are registered under the Securities Act and can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to restrictions imposed on our affiliates under Rule 144. Sales into the public market by our officers, directors and their affiliates, or other major stockholders, of a substantial number of shares, or the expectation that such sales may occur, could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. In addition, certain of our executive officers have established predetermined selling plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Exchange Act, for the purpose of effecting sales of common stock. If any such sales occur, are expected to occur or a large number of our shares are sold in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Further, any such decline or expectation could impede our ability to raise capital in the future through the sale of equity securities under terms that are favorable to us. Raising additional funds by issuing securities or through licensing arrangements may cause dilution to existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights. Additional financing may not be available to us when we need it or may not be available on favorable terms. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our existing stockholders’ ownership will be diluted and the terms of any new equity securities may have preferences over our common stock. Any debt financing we enter into may involve covenants that restrict our operations. These restrictive covenants may include limitations on additional borrowing and specific restrictions on the use of our assets, as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens, pay dividends, redeem our stock or make investments. In addition, if we raise additional funds through licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to potential products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC require an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and, based on 41 Table of Contents our public float, a report by our independent registered public accounting firm attesting to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting at the end of the fiscal year. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC. If we cannot in the future favorably assess, or, if required, our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investor confidence in the reliability of our financial reports may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Anti-takeover provisions in the Collaboration Agreement with Purdue Pharma, in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us more difficult and may prevent attempts by stockholders to replace or remove management. Provisions in the Collaboration Agreement with Purdue Pharma, our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition or a change in management. The provisions in the Collaboration Agreement include an agreement with Purdue Pharma that prevents Purdue Pharma from acquiring above a certain percentage of our stock and engaging in certain other activities for a limited period of time following the commercial launch of Intermezzo that may lead to an acquisition of our company without our consent. In addition, our co-promote option pursuant to the Collaboration Agreement cannot be transferred to a third party, except under a limited circumstance at the discretion of Purdue Pharma, which may significantly reduce the value of our shares to a potential acquirer. Such provisions in our charter documents include a classified board of directors, a prohibition on actions by written consent of stockholders and the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us unless certain conditions are met. Although we believe most of these provisions collectively will provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by stockholders to replace or remove the then-current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of the board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of management. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock, and do not anticipate that we will pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have not paid cash dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date, and our current expectation is that we will retain our future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be the sole source of gain, if any, as a result of holding shares of our common stock, for the foreseeable future. The highly concentrated ownership of our common stock may prevent stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and may result in conflicts of interest that could cause our stock price to decline. Our executive officers and directors beneficially own or control approximately 25.3% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of December 31, 2011 and an additional 23.2% is beneficially owned by venture capital firms in which two of our directors are partners. Accordingly, these executive officers, directors and their affiliates, acting as a group, will have substantial influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transactions. These stockholders may also delay or prevent a change of control of us, even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders. The significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. 42 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 