ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We have a limited operating history, and if we are unable to generate significant revenue, we may not maintain profitability. We were incorporated in March 2001 and have a limited operating history. We incurred net losses since our inception through March 31, 2005. We had net income of $1.3 million during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006. Fluctuations in quarterly and annual revenue are expected to continue in future periods due to uncertainty regarding the level and the timing of revenue from customer contracts and achievement of contract milestones in our fuel cell business. In addition, we expect that we will need to increase our efforts in supporting our new fuel cell contracts, in developing our next generation fuel cell products and in growing our fuel cell customer base. Furthermore, our planned entry into the PV module and polysilicon markets will require us to spend additional amounts to support the construction of facilities to manufacture PV cells and modules, and polysilicon, the purchase of capital equipment, fund new sales and marketing efforts, pay for additional operating costs, and significantly increase our headcount. The result is that we expect our costs to increase significantly, which may result in further losses on a quarterly or annual basis. To date, our customers have not commercially deployed products incorporating our Hoku MEAs or Hoku Membranes, and we have not sold any products commercially. If we are unable to generate significant revenue or maintain profitability, we will not be able to sustain our operations. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past, and we expect a number of factors to cause our operating results to fluctuate in the future, making it difficult for us to accurately forecast our quarterly and annual operating results. Our revenue, operating results and cash flows depend upon the size and timing of customer orders and payments and the dates of product deliveries and achievement of contractual milestones. Fluctuations in quarterly and annual revenue are expected to continue in future periods due to uncertainty regarding the level and the timing of revenue from fuel cell customer contracts and achievement of fuel cell contract milestones. In addition, we expect that we will need to increase our efforts in supporting our new contracts, in developing our next generation products and in growing our customer base. Furthermore, our planned entry into the PV module and polysilicon markets will require us to spend additional amounts to support the construction of facilities, the purchase of capital equipment, fund new sales and marketing efforts, pay for additional operating costs, and significantly increase our headcount. The result is that we expect our costs to increase significantly, which may result in further losses on a quarterly or annual basis. To date, we have derived substantially all our revenue through contracts related to fuel cell testing and engineering services with Sanyo Electric Co., Ltd., or Sanyo, and Nissan Motor Co. Ltd., or Nissan. In addition, we are the prime contractor in a U.S. Navy fuel cell demonstration project. We recognize fuel cell service revenue and related costs upon contract completion and customer acceptance and fuel cell license revenue and related costs when the products are delivered to a customer. These methods of revenue recognition often result in our receiving payment from a customer and deferring the recognition of the revenue and related costs of uncompleted contracts for some period of time until the milestones are achieved and accepted by the customer and/or the products or services are delivered. As a result, a new fuel cell contract may not result in revenue in the quarter or year in which the contract is signed, and we may not be able to predict accurately when revenue and related costs from a fuel cell contract will be recognized. Any failure or delay in our ability to meet fuel cell contractual milestones and/or deliver our products to our customers may harm our operating results. Since our operating expenses are based on anticipated revenue and cash flows from contracts and because a high percentage of these expenses are relatively fixed, a delay in revenue and cash flows from one or more contracts could cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter and cause unexpected results. Revenue from contracts that do not meet our revenue recognition policy requirements for which we have been paid or have a valid account receivable are recorded as deferred revenue. Our future operating results and cash flows will depend on many factors that impact our fuel cell business, and our planned PV module and polysilicon businesses, including the following: • the size and timing of customer orders, milestone achievement, product delivery and customer acceptance, if required; • our success in obtaining pre-payments from customers for future shipments of polysilicon; • our success in maintaining and enhancing existing strategic relationships and developing new strategic relationships with potential customers; 19 Table of Contents • our ability to protect our intellectual property; • actions taken by our competitors, including new product introductions and pricing changes; • the costs of maintaining and expanding our operations; • customer budget cycles and changes in these budget cycles; and • external economic and industry conditions. As a result of these factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. If we are unable to obtain the necessary initial financing, supply contracts and licenses to intellectual property required to begin construction of PV cell and module, and polysilicon manufacturing capabilities we will not be able to form an integrated photovoltaic module business. In May 2006, we announced our intention to form an integrated photovoltaic, or PV, module business to complement our fuel cell business. This planned expansion includes developing manufacturing capabilities and the eventual planned manufacture of polysilicon, PV cells and PV modules. To date, our business has solely been focused on the stationary and automotive fuel cell markets and we have no experience in the PV cell, PV module and polysilicon businesses. In order to be successful we will need to devote substantial management time, resources and funds to this planned expansion. We are at an early planning stage of this expansion and at any point in time we may conclude that such expansion is not financially or technologically feasible and abandon our efforts to establish an integrated PV module business. Such abandonment after substantial investment of time and resources could harm our business. Even if successful, the diversion of management’s efforts, our resources and funds could harm our efforts to develop and commercialize our Hoku MEAs and Hoku Membranes. Before we can even commence construction of our planned manufacturing facilities, we must successfully and timely accomplish the following: • raise approximately $250 million in cash through the issuance of debt, convertible debt, and/or equity securities, or from customer pre-payments for future purchases of PV modules and polysilicon; • license any intellectual property that may be required to manufacture polysilicon, PV cells and PV modules; • secure key supplier contracts for the materials required to manufacture polysilicon, PV cells and PV modules; and • identify a suitable location for our manufacturing operations that includes a low-cost source of electricity. If we fail to successfully achieve any or all of the above objectives, we will be unable to commence construction of our planned manufacturing facilities and we may be forced to delay, alter or abandon our planned expansion. In addition, any delay in achieving these objectives may result in additional expense and increased diversion of management’s efforts from our fuel cell business, each of which would harm our business. Even if we achieve our initial PV module and polysilicon objectives on a timely basis and complete the construction of manufacturing facilities for PV cells, PV modules and polysilicon as currently planned, we may still be unsuccessful in developing, manufacturing and/or selling these products, which would harm our business. If we are successful in our efforts to construct manufacturing facilities for the production of polysilicon, PV cells and PV modules, our ability to successfully compete in the PV module and polysilicon markets will depend on a number of factors, including: • our ability to manufacture PV cells, PV modules and polysilicon at a cost that allows us to achieve or maintain profitability in these businesses; • our ability to successfully manage a much larger and growing enterprise, with a broader international presence; • our ability to attract and expand new customer relationships; • the quality and consistency of our PV modules; • our ability to develop new technologies to become competitive through cost reductions and improvements in solar radiation conversion efficiencies; 20 Table of Contents • our ability to scale our business to be competitive; • future product liability or warranty claims; and • our ability to compete with in a highly competitive market against companies that have greater resources, longer operating histories and larger market share than we do. Industry-wide shortages or overcapacity in the production of polysilicon could harm our business. Polysilicon is an essential raw material in the production of photovoltaic, or solar, cells. Polysilicon is created by refining quartz or sand, and is typically supplied to PV cell and module manufacturers in the form of silicon ingots that are sliced into wafers, or as pre-sliced wafers. We plan to commence manufacturing PV modules at least one year before we commence manufacturing our own supply of polysilicon. There is currently an industry-wide shortage of polysilicon, which has resulted in significant price increases. We may be unable to obtain polysilicon to commence manufacturing of our PV modules in 2007. We do not currently have any contracts to purchase polysilicon ingots or wafers. Our inability to obtain sufficient polysilicon, ingots or wafers at commercially reasonable prices or at all would adversely affect our ability to commence manufacturing our PV module products in 2007, and prevent us from meeting potential customer demand for our products, and may delay our entry into the PV module business, thereby seriously harming our business, financial condition and results of operations. In light of these shortages, certain polysilicon producers have announced plans to invest heavily in the expansion of their production capacities in view of the current scarcity of solar-grade silicon, strong demand and the expected strong market growth. We currently expect significant additional capacity to come on-line in 2008, at the same time our planned production of polysilicon will begin. This expansion of production capacities could result in an excess supply of solar-grade silicon. In addition, if an excess supply of electronic-grade silicon were to develop, producers of electronic-grade silicon could switch production to solar-grade silicon, eliminating the current scarcity of solar-grade silicon or causing it to decline more rapidly than we currently anticipate. The electronic-grade silicon market has experienced significant cyclicality historically; for instance, that market experienced significant excess supply from 1998 through 2003. Moreover, the current scarcity of silicon could also be overcome in the medium term if the need for silicon is significantly reduced as a result of the introduction of new technologies that significantly reduce or eliminate the need for silicon in producing effective PV systems. If any of these events occurred, they could lead to considerable pressure on the world market price for solar-grade silicon, which, in turn, could place pressure on our margins in these businesses. Accordingly, overcapacity in polysilicon production could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial conditions or results of operations. If we fail to improve our accounting systems and controls and financial reporting processes, we may be unable to comply with our reporting obligations as a public company and our stock price may decline. Our reporting obligations as a public company will place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. As an early stage private company, we had limited accounting personnel and other resources with which to address internal controls and procedures. As a result, when our independent registered public accounting firm audited our financial statements for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2005, and 2004, they identified in their report to our audit committee a “reportable condition,” which primarily related to the fact that we did not have the appropriate financial management and reporting infrastructure in place to accurately and properly record and provide comprehensive financial information in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. As a result, a number of material audit adjustments to our financial statements were identified during the course of the audit. Had we at the time been a publicly-traded company, this “reportable condition” would have been characterized as a “material weakness” in internal controls as defined by Securities Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e). In order to address the reportable condition, we retained a controller on a part-time consulting basis in July 2005, who became a full-time employee in August 2005, and we documented our accounting policies and financial reporting procedures. However, we continue to remediate the reportable condition. When our independent registered public accounting firm audited our financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006, they identified in their management letter to our Audit Committee “significant deficiencies” which primarily relate to issues that are similar to those that were in the “reportable condition” in the prior year. If we fail to remedy our significant deficiencies or should we, or our independent registered public accounting firm, determine in future fiscal periods that we have additional significant deficiencies or a material weakness, we may fail to meet our reporting obligations as a public company, the reliability of our financial reports may be impacted, and our results of operations or financial condition may be harmed and the price of our common stock may decline. Our reporting obligations as a public company will continue to place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems. 21 Table of Contents We expect to depend on Nissan and the U.S. Navy for substantially all our revenue for the foreseeable future, and if Nissan or the U.S. Navy terminates its contract with us, our business will be harmed. In January 2006, we entered into a Step 3 collaboration contract with Nissan, and in March 2005 we were awarded a contract with the U.S. Navy. Our Step 3 collaboration contract with Nissan ends in September 2006 and our contract with the U.S. Navy is expected to be completed during the quarter ended September 30, 2007. We anticipate that substantially all our revenue for the foreseeable future will be derived from our contracts with Nissan and the U.S. Navy. If Nissan or the U.S. Navy terminates its contract with us for any reason, our revenue would be reduced and our business would be harmed. Our contract with Nissan provides that we will develop customized Hoku MEAs for use in Nissan’s automotive fuel cells and an MEA assembly process. Nissan may terminate the contract if we materially breach the contract without curing the breach within 30 days or if we are insolvent or petition in bankruptcy. Our failure to achieve a technical milestone is not a material breach under the contract. We expect that our current contract with Nissan, which ends in September 2006, will be our final engineering service contract with Nissan for the foreseeable future. As a result, it is likely that we will not receive any meaningful revenue from Nissan unless or until we begin selling to Nissan commercial quantities of our Hoku Membrane or Hoku MEA products. We cannot predict when such sales will occur, if at all. In December 2005, we completed the development and demonstration of a PEM fuel cell power plant prototype that incorporates our Hoku MEA within IdaTech, LLC’s fuel cell stacks and integrated fuel cell systems. The U.S. Navy will pay us to manufacture 11 demonstration-ready fuel cell systems for an aggregate amount of $1.1 million to be paid in installments as each fuel cell power plant is completed. The second option provides that we will operate and maintain 10 of the 11 fuel cell power plants manufactured under the first option for a period of 12 months at a U.S. Navy facility, for which the U.S. Navy has agreed to pay us a total of $1.4 million in monthly installments at the time each of the 10 fuel cell power plants are placed into service. As of June 2006, we had manufactured 5 fuel cell power plants and commenced the demonstration of 2 power plants. If we fail to successfully deliver the demonstration-ready fuel cell systems, then the U.S. Navy may terminate the contract. In addition, the U.S. Navy may terminate the contract, in whole or in part, if it is determined that the termination is in the U.S. Government’s interest. We experience long and variable sales cycles on our fuel cell products, which could negatively impact our results of operations for any given quarter. To date, the majority of our revenue has been derived from a few customers, and our customers have spent a significant amount of time considering a wide range of issues before committing to contracts for the testing and evaluation of our fuel cell products. Further, these customers have not commercially deployed products incorporating Hoku MEAs or Hoku Membranes. We expect that our sales process with potential new customers will continue to require significant technical review, assessment of competitive products and approval at a number of management levels within their organizations. As a result, our sales cycle will likely range from six to nine months, and in some cases even longer, and it will be very difficult to predict whether and when any particular transaction might be completed. We may need to secure additional funding for our fuel cell business, and will need to raise approximately $250 million for our PV module and polysilicon businesses, and we may be unable to raise this additional capital on favorable terms or at all. Our cash requirements for the fuel cell business will depend on numerous factors, including the level of our research and development activities, the timing of market acceptance of our products and the introduction of new products. We expect to devote substantial capital resources to continuing our fuel cell research and development programs, building our fuel cell manufacturing infrastructure, and expanding into new markets and technologies. We believe our current cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to meet the capital requirements of our fuel cell membranes and MEA business for at least the next 12 months. We may need to raise additional funds; however, we may not be able to secure additional funding on acceptable terms or at all. If adequate funds are not available to satisfy either short-term or long-term capital requirements, we may be required to limit operations in a manner inconsistent with our fuel cell research and development, manufacturing and commercialization plans, which could harm our operating results. We will need to raise approximately $250 million to fund the construction of our planned PV cell and module and polysilicon production facilities, and to purchase capital equipment for the manufacture of PV cells, PV modules and polysilicon, and we may need to raise additional funds in the future to support the growth of these businesses. If we are unable to raise $250 million, then we will not be able to enter the PV module and polysilicon markets in accordance with our current plans. If we raise additional funds for the fuel cell, PV module and polysilicon businesses through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our then current stockholders may be reduced. If we raise additional funds for 22 Table of Contents these businesses through the issuance of convertible debt securities, these securities could have rights senior to those of our common stock and could contain covenants that would restrict our operations. If there are any adverse developments in our relationships with Sanyo or Nissan, our efforts to develop and market our fuel cell products could be delayed. We have established strategic relationships with Sanyo and Nissan to develop our Hoku MEAs and Hoku Membranes for use in stationary fuel cell systems and automotive fuel cells, respectively. In the stationary market, we are focused on demonstrating that our fuel cell products meet operating lifetime requirements. In the automotive market, we are focused on increasing power output and demonstrating the operating lifetime of our fuel cell products within a broader range of operating temperatures, to operate at a lower relative humidity of oxygen and hydrogen and to resist oxidation over prolonged operation. Oxidation is the degradation of membrane material. As with substantially all commercially available membranes, our Hoku Membranes must contain water in order to conduct protons. This potentially limits the ability of our Hoku Membranes to operate at temperatures below freezing and above boiling, which is desirable for some applications, such as those for the automotive market. Sanyo and Nissan may require us to further develop and improve our fuel cell products before either integrates them into a commercially available PEM fuel cell system or product. Sanyo and Nissan may also pursue relationships with alternative suppliers even if we are able to meet their cost, durability and performance requirements. Our contracts with Sanyo and Nissan are not exclusive, and Sanyo and Nissan continue to evaluate competing products. We have no agreements or understandings with either Sanyo or Nissan with respect to future promotion or sales of our fuel cell products. We expect that our Testing Agreement with Sanyo, which ends in July 2006, and Nissan, which ends in September 2006, will be our final engineering service contracts with the respective companies for the foreseeable future. As a result, it is likely that we will not receive any meaningful revenue from Sanyo or Nissan unless or until we begin selling commercial quantities of our Hoku Membrane or Hoku MEA products. We cannot predict when such sales will occur, if at all. Even if Sanyo and Nissan select our products for integration into their fuel cell systems, we cannot reasonably estimate when they would purchase significant quantities of our fuel cell products. Any adverse development in our relationship with Sanyo or Nissan could delay our efforts to develop and market our fuel cell products in the stationary and automotive markets, respectively. If our fuel cell products, or PEM fuel cell products in general, do not achieve market acceptance, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenue to continue our operations. To date, our customers have not commercially deployed products incorporating Hoku MEAs or Hoku Membranes. We do not know the extent to which these or other customers will purchase our fuel cell products, or whether end-users will buy our customers’ products. If a market for our fuel cell products fails to develop, or develops more slowly than we anticipate, we may be unable to achieve significant revenue or maintain profitability. The development of a market for our fuel cell products is dependent on the development of a market for PEM fuel cell systems, which may be impacted by many factors, including: • the cost competitiveness of PEM fuel cell systems relative to other power sources; • the future cost and availability of hydrogen and the fuels, such as natural gas and methanol, from which it is extracted; • consumer willingness to adopt products powered by PEM fuel cells; • consumer perceptions of PEM fuel cell safety; • adverse regulatory developments, including elimination of governmental PEM fuel cell development and purchasing subsidies and tax credits and the adoption of onerous regulations regarding PEM fuel cell use; • barriers to entry created by existing energy providers; and • the emergence of new competitive technologies and products. In addition, our Hoku Membranes are designed to be incorporated into our Hoku MEAs using only our production methods and processes. Manufacturers may find it too difficult to manufacture their own MEAs using our Hoku Membranes, which may limit the market for our Hoku Membranes. 23 Table of Contents If our competitors are able to develop and market products that customers prefer to our products, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to continue operations. The number of PEM fuel cell membrane and MEA product developers is growing and competition is becoming increasingly intense. There are a number of public and private companies, national laboratories and universities worldwide that are developing fuel cell membranes and MEAs that compete with our fuel cell products. To our knowledge, DuPont, W.L. Gore and 3M sell the majority of PEM fuel cell membranes and MEAs used in PEM fuel cell systems today. In addition, some of our existing and potential customers have internal membrane and MEA development efforts. These development efforts may result in membrane or MEA products that compete with our fuel cell products. Most of our competitors and potential customers have substantially greater financial, research and development, manufacturing and sales and marketing resources than we do and may complete the research, development and commercialization of their PEM fuel cell membrane and MEA products more quickly and cost-effectively than we can. In addition, most of our competitors have well-established customer and supplier relationships that may provide them with a competitive advantage with respect to sales opportunities and discounts on materials. The market for PV modules is competitive and continually evolving. As a new entrant to this market, we expect to face substantial competition from companies such as SunPower Corporation, BP Solar International Inc., Evergreen Solar, Inc., Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, Q-Cells AG, Renewable Energy Corporation ASA, Sanyo Electric Co., Ltd., Sharp Electronics Corp., SolarWorld AG, Suntech Power Holdings Co., Ltd., and other new and emerging companies in Asia, North America and Europe. All of our known competitors are established players in the solar industry, and have a stronger market position than ours and have larger resources and recognition than we have. In addition, universities, research institutions and other companies are developing alternative technologies such as thin films and concentrators, which may compete with the products we are planning to introduce. In addition, the PV module market in general competes with other sources of renewable energy and conventional power generation. In the polysilicon market, we will also compete with companies such as Hemlock Semiconductor Corporation, Renewable Energy Corporation ASA, Mitsubishi Polycrystalline Silicon America Corporation, Mitsubishi Materials Corporation, Tokuyama Corporation, MEMC Electronic Materials, Inc., and Wacker Chemie AG. In addition, we believe new companies may be emerging in China and Eastern Europe, and new technologies, such as fluidized bed reactors, are emerging, which may have significant cost and other advantages over the Siemens process we are planning to use to manufacture polysilicon. These competitors may have longer operating histories, greater name recognition and greater financial, sales and marketing, technical and other resources than us. If we fail to compete successfully, we may be unable to successfully enter the market for polysilicon and PV modules. If we are unable to meet recommended government operating specifications, the market for our fuel cell products may be limited. The U.S. Department of Energy, in connection with the Solid State Energy Conversion Alliance, a partnership with the National Laboratories and the fuel cell industry, has established 40,000 hours, which represents approximately 4 1/2 years of operation, and 5,000 hours as the commercial operating lifetime targets for fuel cell systems in residential primary stationary and automotive applications, respectively. We have demonstrated 2,000 hours of MEA operating lifetime under simulated fuel cell operating conditions. As the market for fuel cell systems develops, we expect that governments and regulatory bodies will establish more operating specifications, such as operating lifetime targets, power output targets and similar operating metrics. If we fail to meet existing or any future recommended operating specifications, the market for our fuel cell products may be limited. Our business and industry are subject to government regulation, which may harm our ability to market our products. Our and our customers’ fuel cell products are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, including, for example, state and local ordinances relating to building codes, public safety, electrical and gas pipeline connections, hydrogen siting and related matters. The level of regulation may depend, in part, upon whether a PEM fuel cell system is placed outside or inside a home or business. As products are introduced into the market commercially, governments may impose new regulations. We do not know the extent to which any such regulations may impact our or our customers’ products. Any regulation of our or our customers’ products, whether at the federal, state, local or foreign level, including any regulations relating to installation and use of our customers’ products, may increase our costs or the price of PEM fuel cell applications and could reduce or eliminate demand for some or all of our or our customers’ products. 24 Table of Contents The market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by foreign, federal, state and local government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as policies promulgated by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation. In the United States and in a number of other countries, these regulations and policies are being modified and may continue to be modified. Customer purchases of, or further investment in the research and development of, alternative energy sources, including solar power technology, could be deterred by these regulations and policies, which could result in a significant reduction in the potential demand for our PV modules. For example, without a regulatory mandated exception for solar power systems, utility customers are often charged interconnection or standby fees for putting distributed power generation on the electric utility grid. These fees could increase the cost to our customers of using our PV modules and make them less desirable, thereby harming our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We anticipate that our PV modules and their installation will be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national and local ordinances relating to building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering and related matters. It is difficult to track the requirements of individual states and design equipment to comply with the varying standards. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to our PV modules may result in significant additional expenses to us and our resellers and their customers and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our PV modules. If the United States does not develop a new hydrogen production, delivery and refueling infrastructure, the market for fuel cell systems for the automotive market may not develop. As reported by the U.S. Department of Energy in a February 2003 report to Congress, a new hydrogen production, delivery and refueling infrastructure is necessary for automotive fuel cell technology to achieve its potential cost and environmental benefits. If this infrastructure is not developed, the market for fuel cell technology for the automotive market, and our products, may not develop. If favorable government policies encouraging the adoption of fuel cell technologies are eliminated or reduced, market acceptance of our fuel cell products may be reduced or delayed. The governments of the United States, Canada, Japan and certain European countries have provided funding to promote the development and use of fuel cells. Tax incentives have also been initiated in Japan and the United States to stimulate the growth of the fuel cell market by reducing the cost of these fuel cell systems to consumers. If these countries reduce or eliminate their funding of fuel cell research and development, reduce their purchases of fuel cell systems, adversely change their tax policies or fail to adopt favorable tax policies, the market for fuel cell systems would be reduced. Any decrease in the market for fuel cell systems will decrease the demand for our Hoku MEAs and Hoku Membranes. The reduction or elimination of government and economic incentives for PV modules and related products could reduce the market opportunity for our planned PV module products. We believe that the near-term growth of the market for on-grid applications, where solar power is used to supplement a customer’s electricity purchased from the utility network, depends in large part on the availability and size of government incentives. Because we plan to sell to the on-grid market, the reduction or elimination of government incentives may adversely affect the growth of this market or result in increased price competition, both of which adversely affect our ability to compete in this market. Today, the cost of solar power exceeds the cost of power furnished by the electric utility grid in many locations. As a result, federal, state and local government bodies in many countries, most notably Germany, Japan and the United States, have provided incentives in the form of rebates, tax credits and other incentives to end users, distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of solar power products to promote the use of solar energy in on-grid applications and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. These government economic incentives could be reduced or eliminated altogether. For example, Germany has been a strong supporter of solar power products and systems and political changes in Germany could result in significant reductions or eliminations of incentives, including the reduction of tariffs over time. Some solar program incentives expire, decline over time, are limited in total funding or require renewal of authority. Net metering policies in Japan could limit the amount of solar power installed there. Reductions in, or eliminations or expirations of, governmental incentives could result in decreased demand for PV products, and reduce the size of the market for our planned PV module products. 25 Table of Contents Adverse events involving our fuel cell products or fuel cell systems could negatively affect consumer perceptions of us and the fuel cell industry. A well-publicized malfunction, design defect or perceived problem in our fuel cell products or fuel cell systems in general could harm the market’s perception of fuel cell systems or our fuel cell products resulting in a decline in demand for fuel cell systems and for our products. We plan to conduct public demonstrations with our customers of PEM fuel cell systems that incorporate our Hoku MEA and Hoku Membrane products. If we or our customers encounter problems or delays during these demonstrations, including technology or product failures, market acceptance of our fuel cell products may be reduced or slowed. Defects in our products could result in a loss of revenue, unexpected expenses and harm to our business reputation. Our products are complex and must meet stringent quality requirements. Products as complex as ours may contain defects that are not detected until after the products are shipped because we and our customers cannot test for all possible scenarios. These defects could cause us to incur significant re-engineering costs and divert the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts. Defects could also trigger warranty obligations and lead to product liability as a result of lawsuits against us or our customers. Upon commercialization of our products, we may be required to indemnify our customers in some circumstances against liability from product defects. A successful product liability claim against us could result in significant damage payments, which would negatively affect our financial results. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property, and we could incur substantial costs defending ourselves against claims that our products infringe on the proprietary rights of others. Our ability to compete effectively will depend on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights with respect to our Hoku MEAs, Hoku Membranes and manufacturing processes and any intellectual property we develop with respect to our PV module or polysilicon businesses. We rely in part on patents, trade secrets and policies and procedures related to confidentiality to protect our intellectual property. However, much of our intellectual property is not covered by any patent or patent application. Confidentiality agreements to which we are party may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Our trade secrets may also become known without breach of these agreements or may be independently developed by our competitors. Our inability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology and processes could allow our competitors to limit or eliminate any of our potential competitive advantages. Moreover, our patent applications may not result in the grant of patents either in the United States or elsewhere. Further, in the case of our issued patents or our patents that may issue, we do not know whether the claims allowed will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology or processes. Even if some or all of our patent applications issue and are sufficiently broad, our patents may be challenged or invalidated and we may not be able to enforce them. We could incur substantial costs in prosecuting or defending patent infringement suits or otherwise protecting our intellectual property rights. We do not know whether we have been or will be completely successful in safeguarding and maintaining our proprietary rights. Moreover, patent applications filed in foreign countries may be subject to laws, rules and procedures that are substantially different from those of the United States, and any resulting foreign patents may be difficult and expensive to enforce. Further, our competitors may independently develop or patent technologies or processes that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. If we are found to be infringing third-party patents, we could be required to pay substantial royalties and/or damages, and we do not know whether we will be able to obtain licenses to use these patents on acceptable terms, if at all. Failure to obtain needed licenses could delay or prevent the development, manufacture or sale of our products, and could necessitate the expenditure of significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing intellectual property. Asserting, defending and maintaining our intellectual property rights could be difficult and costly, and failure to do so might diminish our ability to compete effectively and harm our operating results. We may need to pursue lawsuits or legal actions in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and domain names, and to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. If third parties prepare and file applications for trademarks used or registered by us, we may oppose those applications and be required to participate in proceedings to determine priority of rights to the trademark. We cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered by our issued patent or our pending patent applications or that we were the first to invent technology because: • some patent applications in the United States may be maintained in secrecy until the patents are issued; • patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing; and 26 Table of Contents • publications in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries and the filing of patents relating to those discoveries. Competitors may have filed applications for patents, may have received patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights relating to products or technology that block or compete with our products and technology. Due to the various technologies involved in the development of fuel cell systems, including membrane and MEA technologies, and PV products it is impracticable for us to affirmatively identify and review all issued patents that may affect our products. Although we have no knowledge that our products and technology infringe any third party’s intellectual property rights, we cannot be sure that we do not infringe any third party’s intellectual property rights. We may have to participate in interference proceedings to determine the priority of invention and the right to a patent for the technology. Litigation and interference proceedings, even if they are successful, are expensive to pursue and time-consuming, and we could use a substantial amount of our financial resources in either case. The loss of any of our executive officers or the failure to attract or retain specialized technical and management personnel could impair our ability to grow our business. We are highly dependent on our executive officers, including Dustin M. Shindo, our Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Karl M. Taft III, our Chief Technology Officer. Due to the specialized knowledge that each of our executive officers possesses with respect to our technology or operations, the loss of service of any of our executive officers would harm our business. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers, and each may terminate his employment without notice and without cause or good reason. In addition, we do not carry key man life insurance on our executive officers. All of our operations are currently located in Hawaii, which has a limited pool of qualified applicants for our specialized needs. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified management and technical personnel, many of whom must be relocated from the continental United States or other countries. In addition, we will need to hire and train specialized engineers to manage and operate our planned polysilicon plant. We may not be successful in hiring or retaining qualified personnel. Our inability to hire qualified personnel on a timely basis, or the departure of key employees, could harm our business. We may have difficulty managing change in our operations, which could harm our business. We continue to undergo rapid change in the scope and breadth of our operations as we seek to grow our business. Our planned entry into the PV modules and polysilicon markets will involve a substantial change to our operations. Our potential growth will place a significant strain on our senior management team and other resources. We will be required to make significant investments in our engineering, logistics, financial and management information systems. In particular, we currently have limited resources dedicated to sales and marketing activities and will need to expand our sales and marketing infrastructure to support our customers. Our planned entry into the PV modules and polysilicon markets will involve the construction of a large scale chemical processing plant, increased international activities, and the increase in our headcount and operating costs by a significant factor. Our business could be harmed if we encounter difficulties in effectively managing our planned growth. In addition, we may face difficulties in our ability to predict customer demands accurately, which could strain our support staff and our ability to meet those demands. If we are unable to manufacture our fuel cell products efficiently in significant volumes, we may continue to incur losses. We have no experience manufacturing our fuel cell products in significant volumes. To date, we have focused primarily on research and development and very low volume manufacturing. We have completed the move of our operations to a new approximately 14,000 square foot facility in Kapolei, Hawaii and have completed the testing and installation of customized pieces of manufacturing equipment and other non-customized equipment for the new facility; however, we have not yet begun manufacturing significant volumes of our fuel cell products with this new equipment. If the equipment does not operate as designed, our ability to manufacture our fuel cell products in significant volumes will be delayed and our business would suffer. We may not be able to develop and implement efficient, low-cost manufacturing capabilities and processes that will enable us to manufacture our fuel cell products in significant volumes while meeting the quality, price, durability, engineering, design and production standards required to market our fuel cell products successfully. If we fail to develop and implement these manufacturing capabilities and processes, we may be unable to sell our fuel cell products at a profit because the per unit cost of our fuel cell products is highly dependent upon production volumes and the level of automation in our manufacturing processes. 27 Table of Contents Our production capacity expansion has increased our fixed costs. Even if we are successful in developing our manufacturing capabilities and processes, we may be unable to increase our sales volumes to utilize the additional manufacturing capacity of our new facility, which would negatively impact our gross margins and our ability to become profitable. We rely on single suppliers and, if these suppliers fail to deliver materials that meet our quality requirements in a timely manner or at all, the manufacture of our fuel cell and solar products would be limited. We rely on single suppliers to provide certain materials, such as our platinum-based catalyst, porous carbon materials and a customized monomer, that we use to manufacture our Hoku MEAs and Hoku Membranes. We have not identified all of the potential suppliers for our planned PV module and polysilicon products, and it is possible that we will rely on a limited number of suppliers, or a sole supplier, for key materials used in the production of polysilicon, PV cells and PV modules. We are, or will be, dependent on these suppliers to provide us with materials in a timely manner that meet our quality, quantity and cost requirements. If we lost one of these suppliers and were unable to obtain an alternate source on a timely basis or on terms acceptable to us, our production schedules could be delayed and we could fail to meet our customers’ demands. In addition, to the extent that our suppliers use technology or manufacturing processes that are proprietary, we may be unable to obtain comparable materials or components from alternative sources. We procure some of our base materials for our fuel cell business from chemical and materials companies that are also our competitors. It is highly likely that we will also procure materials for our planned PV module and polysilicon businesses from companies that are also our competitors. These companies may choose in the future not to sell these materials to us at all, or may raise their prices to a level that would prevent us from selling our products on a profitable basis. We use materials that are considered hazardous in our manufacturing processes and, therefore, we could be liable for environmental damages resulting from our research, development or manufacturing operations. We use solvents, volatile organic compounds and other materials in our membrane and MEA research and development and manufacturing processes that are considered hazardous to the environment and a risk to public health and safety by federal and state regulatory authorities. We also use hydrogen and oxygen, which are highly flammable gases, to test our fuel cell products. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may increase our research and development or manufacturing costs and may require us to halt or suspend our operations until we regain compliance. If we have an accident at our facility involving a spill or release of these substances, we may be subject to civil and/or criminal penalties, including financial penalties and damages, and possibly injunctions preventing us from continuing our operations. Any liability for penalties or damages, and any injunction resulting from damages to the environment or public health and safety, could harm our business. We do not have any insurance for liabilities arising from the use and handling of hazardous materials. In March 2006, we received a notification from the United States Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, of its intent to initiate an administrative action against us for alleged violations of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act resulting from an inspection of our former facility in Honolulu, Hawaii that was conducted by the EPA in November 2004. In April 2006, we began settlement discussions with the EPA, and, based on these discussions, we recorded a liability of approximately $17,000. In June 2006, we agreed in principle to settle this dispute for an aggregate cash payment of approximately $14,000. Final settlement is pending the official agreement from EPA, and entry of an order by EPA administrative judge. However, there can be no assurance that we will settle this matter for this amount, if at all. In addition, the manufacture of PV cells, PV modules and polysilicon will involve the use of materials that are hazardous to human health and the environment, the storage, handling and disposal of which will be subject to government regulation. Any significant and prolonged disruption of our operations in Hawaii could result in production delays that would reduce our revenue. All of our operations are currently located in Hawaii, which is subject to the potential risk of earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods and other natural disasters. The occurrence of an earthquake, hurricane, tsunami, flood or other natural disaster at or near our facility in Hawaii could result in damage, power outages and other disruptions that would interfere with our ability to conduct our business, including impairing our ability to develop and manufacture our fuel cell products. Any significant and prolonged disruption resulting from these events would cause delays in the manufacture and shipment of our fuel cell products. 28 Table of Contents Most of the materials we use must be delivered via air or sea, and some of the equipment used in our production process can only be delivered via sea. Hawaii has a large union presence and has historically experienced labor disputes, including dockworker strikes that have prevented or delayed cargo shipments. Any future dispute that delays shipments via air or sea could prevent us from manufacturing or delivering our fuel cell products in time to meet our customers’ requirements, or might require us to seek alternative and more expensive freight forwarders or contract manufacturers, which could increase our expenses. We have significant international activities and customers that subject us to additional business risks, including increased logistical complexity and regulatory requirements, which could result in a decline in our revenue. Sales to companies in Japan accounted for substantially all of our revenue in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenue. International sales can be subject to many inherent risks that are difficult or impossible for us to predict or control, including: • political and economic instability; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and tariffs; • difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations, including foreign distributor relationships; • longer accounts receivable collection cycles in certain foreign countries; • adverse economic or political changes; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • more limited protection for intellectual property in some countries; • potential trade restrictions, exchange controls and import and export licensing requirements; • U.S. and foreign government policy changes affecting the markets for our products; • problems in collecting accounts receivable; and • potentially adverse tax consequences of overlapping tax structures. All of our contracts are denominated in U.S. dollars. Therefore, increases in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar to foreign currencies will cause our products to become relatively more expensive to customers in those countries, which could lead to a reduction in sales or profitability in some cases. Our stock price is volatile and purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. Our stock price is volatile and since our initial public offering on August 5, 2005 to June 19, 2006, our stock has traded in the range of $2.86 to $13.43 per share. The stock market in general and the market for technology companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, including: • variations in our financial results or those of our competitors and our customers; • announcements by us, our competitors and our customers of acquisitions, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; • failure to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors with respect to our financial results; • our ability to develop and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis; • litigation; 29 Table of Contents • changes in our management; • changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals; • future sales of our common stock by us and future sales of our common stock by our officers, directors and affiliates; • investors’ perceptions of us; and • general economic, industry and market conditions. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility and a decrease in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against the company. Class action litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Anti-takeover defenses that we have in place could prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to change our directors or management. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it more difficult for or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions: • establish a classified board of directors, so that not all members of our board of directors may be elected at one time; • set limitations on the removal of directors; • limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and • provide our board of directors the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our management team and may deprive investors of the opportunity to sell their shares to potential acquirers at a premium over prevailing prices. This potential inability to obtain a control premium could reduce the price of our common stock. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Our board of directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition. 30 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 