ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or growth prospects. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such risks. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Need for Additional Capital We have incurred significant operating losses since our inception. We currently do not, and since inception never have had, any products available for commercial sale. We expect to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future and may never achieve or maintain profitability. Since inception, we have incurred significant operating losses. Our cumulative net loss attributable to common stockholders since inception was $398.7 million and we had an accumulated deficit of $378.5 million as of December 31, 2013. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through private placements of our redeemable convertible preferred stock, proceeds from our initial public and secondary stock offerings, debt financings and from our collaboration agreements. We have devoted substantially all of our efforts to research and development, including our preclinical development activities and clinical trials. We have not completed development of any drugs. We expect to continue to incur significant and increasing operating losses for at least the next several years and we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses as we: •continue our ongoing Phase 3 clinical trials of migalastat HCl for the treatment of Fabry disease to support regulatory approval in the United States and worldwide; -28- Table of Contents •begin Phase 1 clinical studies of migalastat HCl in co-formulated with ERT for Fabry disease; •continue our preclinical studies on the use of pharmacological chaperones co-formulated and co-administered with ERT for Fabry, Pompe and other lysosomal storage diseases; •continue the research and development of additional product candidates; •seek regulatory approvals for our product candidates that successfully complete clinical trials; and •establish a sales and marketing infrastructure to commercialize products for which we may obtain regulatory approval. To become and remain profitable, we must succeed in developing and commercializing drugs with significant market potential. This will require us to be successful in a range of challenging activities, including the discovery of product candidates, successful completion of preclinical testing and clinical trials of our product candidates, obtaining regulatory approval for these product candidates and manufacturing, marketing and selling those products for which we may obtain regulatory approval. We are only in the preliminary stages of these activities. We may never succeed in these activities and may never generate revenues that are large enough to achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our failure to become or remain profitable could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business, diversify our product offerings or continue our operations. We will need substantial funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. We expect to continue to incur substantial research and development expenses in connection with our ongoing activities, particularly as we continue our Phase 3 development of migalastat HCl. Further, subject to obtaining regulatory approval of any of our product candidates including migalastat HCl, we expect to incur significant commercialization expenses for product sales and marketing, securing commercial quantities of product from our manufacturers and product distribution. Under the Revised Agreement entered into with GSK in November 2013, GSK will no longer share in the research and development costs related to migalastat HCl as of January 1, 2014. With the exception of our Parkinson's disease program which is funded through our collaboration with Biogen, we are responsible for all research and development costs for all of our programs. In order to complete clinical trials related to migalastat HCl, seek regulatory approvals of migalastat HCl, commercially launch the product candidate and continue our other clinical and preclinical programs, we will need to seek additional funding. Capital may not be available when needed on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, especially in light of the current challenging economic environment. If adequate funds are not available to us on a timely basis, we may be required to reduce or eliminate research development programs or commercial efforts. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: •the progress and results of our clinical trials of migalastat HCl; •the cost of manufacturing drug supply for our clinical and preclinical studies, including the significant cost of ERT cell line development and manufacturing as well as the cost of manufacturing the vIGF-2 peptide tag; •the scope, progress, results and costs of preclinical development, laboratory testing and clinical trials for our other product candidates including those testing the use of pharmacological -29- Table of Contents chaperones co-formulated and co-administered with ERT and for the treatment of lysosomal storage diseases; •the costs, timing and outcome of regulatory review of our product candidates; •the number and development requirements of other product candidates that we pursue; •the costs of commercialization activities, including product marketing, sales and distribution; •the emergence of competing technologies and other adverse market developments; •the costs of preparing, filing and prosecuting patent applications and maintaining, enforcing and defending intellectual property related claims; •the extent to which we acquire or invest in businesses, products or technologies; •our ability to successfully incorporate Callidus Biopharma, Inc. (Callidus) and its product candidates and technology into our business; and •our ability to establish additional collaborations and obtain milestone, royalty or other payments from any such collaborators. Any capital that we obtain may not be on terms favorable to us or our stockholders or may require us to relinquish valuable rights. Until such time, if ever, as we generate product revenue to finance our operations, we expect to finance our cash needs through public or private equity offerings and debt financings, corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements and grants from patient advocacy groups, foundations and government agencies. If we are able to raise capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders will experience dilution. In addition, stockholders may experience dilution if the holders of the warrants issued in connection with our private placement in November 2013 exercise their warrants. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends and may include rights that are senior to the holders of our common stock. Our current loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank includes a covenant whereby we must maintain a minimum amount of liquidity measured at the end of each month where unrestricted cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities is greater than $20 million plus outstanding debt due to Silicon Valley Bank. Our credit and security agreement with MidCap contains restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. We may be required to make a prepayment or repay the outstanding indebtedness earlier than we expect under our credit and security agreement if a mandatory prepayment event or an event of default occurs, including a material adverse change with respect to us, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Our credit and security agreement with MidCap, pursuant to which we have drawn-down $15.0 million, contains various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. Those covenants limit our ability to, among other things: •incur or assume certain debt; •merge or consolidate; •change the nature of our business; •change our organizational structure or type; •dispose of certain assets; -30- Table of Contents •grant liens on our assets; •make certain investments; •pay dividends; and •enter into material transactions with affiliates or third parties The restrictive covenants of the agreement could cause us to be unable to pursue business opportunities that we or our stockholders may consider beneficial. A breach of any of these covenants could result in an event of default under the agreement. An event of default will also occur if, among other things, a material adverse change in our business, operations or condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects occurs, or a material impairment of the prospect of our repayment of any portion of the amounts we owe under the agreement occurs. In the case of a continuing event of default under the agreement, MidCap could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit (and in the case of an event of default related to bankruptcy or insolvency, all amounts outstanding would be immediately due and payable and commitments terminated), proceed against the collateral in which we granted MidCap a security interest under the agreement, or otherwise exercise the rights of a secured creditor. Amounts outstanding under the agreement are secured by all of our existing and future assets (excluding intellectual property we own, which is subject to a negative pledge arrangement). We may not have enough available cash or be able to raise additional funds on satisfactory terms, if at all, through equity or debt financings to make any required mandatory prepayments or repay such indebtedness at the time any such prepayment event or event of default occurs. In such an event, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our product development or commercialization efforts or grant to others rights to develop and market product candidates that we would otherwise prefer to develop and market ourselves. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected as a result. We may acquire other assets or businesses, or form collaborations or make investments in other companies or technologies, that could harm our operating results, dilute our stockholders' ownership, increase our debt or cause us to incur significant expense. As part of our business strategy, we may pursue acquisitions of assets or businesses, or strategic alliances and collaborations, to expand our existing technologies and operations. We may not identify or complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any such transaction, any of which could have a detrimental effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have no experience with acquiring other companies and limited experience with forming collaborations. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates, and if we make any acquisitions, we may not be able to integrate these acquisitions successfully into our existing business and we may incur additional debt or assume unknown or contingent liabilities in connection therewith. Integration of an acquired company or assets may also disrupt ongoing operations, require the hiring of additional personnel and the implementation of additional internal systems and infrastructure, especially the acquisition of commercial assets, and require management resources that would otherwise focus on developing our existing business. We may not be able to find suitable collaboration partners or identify other investment opportunities, and we may experience losses related to any such investments. To finance any acquisitions or collaborations, we may choose to issue debt or shares of our common stock as consideration. Any such issuance of shares would dilute the ownership of our stockholders. If the price of our common stock is low or volatile, we may not be able to acquire other assets or companies or fund a transaction using our stock as consideration. Alternatively, it may be -31- Table of Contents necessary for us to raise additional funds for acquisitions through public or private financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. Our short operating history may make it difficult to evaluate the success of our business to date and to assess our future viability. We are a development stage company. We commenced operations in February 2002. Our operations to date have been limited to organizing and staffing our company, acquiring and developing our technology and undertaking preclinical studies and clinical trials of our most advanced product candidates. We have not yet generated any commercial sales for any of our product candidates. We have not yet demonstrated our ability to obtain regulatory approvals, manufacture a commercial-scale product or arrange for a third party to do so on our behalf, or conduct sales and marketing activities necessary for successful product commercialization. Consequently, any predictions about our future success or viability may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a longer operating history. In addition, if we are successful in obtaining marketing approval for any of our lead product candidates or if we acquire commercial assets, we will need to transition from a company with a research focus to a company capable of supporting commercial activities. We may not be successful in such a transition. The anticipated benefits of the Callidus acquisition may not be fully realized and may take longer to realize than expected. The Callidus acquisition involved the integration of Callidus' operations, product candidates and technology with our existing operations and programs, and there are uncertainties inherent in such integration. We have devoted and will continue to devote significant management attention and resources to the Callidus integration and to the further development of Callidus' product candidate and other programs. Delays, unexpected difficulties in the integration process or failure to retain key management personnel could adversely affect our business, financial results and financial condition. Even if we were able to conduct the integration successfully, we may not realize the full achievement of the benefits of the Callidus acquisition within a reasonable period of time. In addition, we may have not yet discovered during the due diligence process, all known and unknown factors regarding Callidus that could produce unintended and unexpected consequences for us. Undiscovered factors could cause us to incur potentially material financial liabilities, and prevent us from achieving the expected benefits from the acquisition within our desired time frames, if at all. Risks Related to the Development and Commercialization of Our Product Candidates We depend heavily on the success of our most advanced product candidates. All of our product candidates are still in either preclinical or clinical development. Clinical trials of our product candidates may not be successful. If we are unable to commercialize our most advanced product candidates, including migalastat HCl, or experience significant delays in doing so, our business will be materially harmed. We have invested a significant portion of our efforts and financial resources in the development of our most advanced product candidates, including migalastat HCl. Our ability to generate product revenue, which may never occur, will depend heavily on the successful development and commercialization of these product candidates, and upon the continuation and success of any collaborations we may enter into. The successful commercialization of our product candidates will depend on several factors, including the following: •successful enrollment of patients in our clinical trials on a timely basis; •obtaining supplies of our product candidates and, where required, third party marketed products including ERTs, for completion of our clinical trials on a timely basis; -32- Table of Contents •successful completion of preclinical studies and clinical trials; •obtaining regulatory agreement in the structure and design of our clinical programs; •obtaining marketing approvals from the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and similar regulatory authorities outside the U.S.; •establishing commercial-scale manufacturing arrangements with third party manufacturers whose manufacturing facilities are operated in compliance with current good manufacturing practice (cGMP) regulations; •launching commercial sales of the product, whether alone or in collaboration with others; •acceptance of the product by patients, the medical community and third party payors; •competition from other companies and their therapies; •successful protection of our intellectual property rights from competing products in the U.S. and abroad; and •a continued acceptable safety and efficacy profile of our product candidates following approval. If the market opportunities for our product candidates are smaller than we believe they are, then our revenues may be adversely affected and our business may suffer. Each of the diseases that our most advanced product candidates are being developed to address is rare. Our projections of both the number of people who have these diseases, as well as the subset of people with these diseases who have the potential to benefit from treatment with our product candidates, are based on estimates. Currently, most reported estimates of the prevalence of these diseases are based on studies of small subsets of the population of specific geographic areas, which are then extrapolated to estimate the prevalence of the diseases in the broader world population. In addition, as new studies are performed the estimated prevalence of these diseases may change. In fact, as a result of some recent studies, we believe that previously reported studies do not accurately account for the prevalence of Fabry disease and that the prevalence of Fabry disease could be many times higher than previously reported. There can be no assurance that the prevalence of Fabry disease or Pompe disease in the study populations, particularly in these newer studies, accurately reflects the prevalence of these diseases in the broader world population. We estimate the number of potential patients in the broader world population who have those diseases and may respond to treatment with our product candidates by further extrapolating estimates of the prevalence of specific types of genetic mutations giving rise to these diseases. For example, we base our estimate of the percentage of Fabry patients who may respond to treatment with migalastat HCl on the frequency of missense and other similar mutations that cause Fabry disease reported in the Human Gene Mutation Database. As a result of recent studies that estimate that the prevalence of Fabry disease could be many times higher than previously reported, we believe that the number of patients diagnosed with Fabry disease will increase and estimate that the number of Fabry patients who may benefit from the use of migalastat HCl is significantly higher than some previously reported estimates of Fabry disease generally. If our estimates of the prevalence of Fabry disease or of the number of patients who may benefit from treatment with our product candidates prove to be incorrect, the market opportunities for our product candidates may be smaller than we believe they are, our prospects for generating revenue may be adversely affected and our business may suffer. -33- Table of Contents Initial results from a clinical trial do not ensure that the trial will be successful and success in early stage clinical trials does not ensure success in later-stage clinical trials. We will only obtain regulatory approval to commercialize a product candidate if we can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA or the applicable non-U.S. regulatory authority, in well-designed and conducted clinical trials, that the product candidate is safe and effective and otherwise meets the appropriate standards required for approval for a particular indication. Clinical trials are lengthy, complex and extremely expensive processes with uncertain results. A failure of one or more of our clinical trials may occur at any stage of testing. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and initial results from a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. We cannot be assured that these trials will ultimately be successful. In addition, patients may not be compliant with their dosing regimen or trial protocols or they may withdraw from the study at any time for any reason. In addition, while the clinical trials of our drug candidates are designed based on the available relevant information, in view of the uncertainties inherent in drug development, such clinical trials may not be designed with focus on indications, patient populations, dosing regimens, safety or efficacy parameters or other variables that will provide the necessary safety or efficacy data to support regulatory approval to commercialize the resulting drugs. In addition, individual patient responses to the dose administered of a drug may vary in a manner that is difficult to predict. Also, the methods we select to assess particular safety or efficacy parameters may not yield statistical precision in estimating our drug candidates' effects on study participants. Even if we believe the data collected from clinical trials of our drug candidates are promising, these data may not be sufficient to support approval by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. Preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways. Accordingly, the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities could interpret these data in different ways from us or our partners, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. For example, in December 2012, we announced top-line six-month (Stage 1) results from Study 011. While we believe these data are encouraging, the results did not achieve statistical significance (p=0.3) according to the pre-specified primary endpoint analysis. Although it is understood that FDA will consider the totality of the data from all clinical trials, including Study 011 and Study 012 to support a potential U.S. conditional approval of migalastat HCl monotherapy, there can be no assurance that such data will support such approval or that the FDA will interpret these data in the same way that we may, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Similarly, there can be no assurance that the data from Study 011 and Study 012 will support regulatory approval in territories outside the U.S. In addition, each of our product candidates is based on our pharmacological chaperone technology. To date, we are not aware that any product based on chaperone technology has been approved by the FDA. As a result, if the FDA requires different endpoints than the endpoints we anticipate using or a different analysis of those endpoints, it may be more difficult for us to obtain, or we may be delayed in obtaining, FDA approval of our product candidates. If we are not successful in commercializing any of our lead product candidates, or are significantly delayed in doing so, our business will be materially harmed. -34- Table of Contents We have limited experience in conducting and managing the preclinical development activities and clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approvals, including approval by the FDA. We have limited experience in conducting and managing the preclinical development activities and clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approvals, including approval by the FDA. We have not obtained regulatory approval nor commercialized any of our product candidates. Although we announced top-line six-month Stage 1 results for our Phase 3 study of migalastat HCl (Study 011) in December 2012, the results did not achieve statistical significance according to the primary endpoint analysis, and we have not yet completed a Phase 3 clinical trial for any of our product candidates. Our limited experience might prevent us from successfully designing or implementing a clinical trial. We have limited experience in conducting and managing the application process necessary to obtain regulatory approvals and we might not be able to demonstrate that our product candidates meet the appropriate standards for regulatory approval. If we are not successful in conducting and managing our preclinical development activities or clinical trials or obtaining regulatory approvals, we might not be able to commercialize our lead product candidates, or might be significantly delayed in doing so, which will materially harm our business. We may find it difficult to enroll patients in our clinical trials. Each of the diseases that our lead product candidates are intended to treat is rare and we expect only a subset of the patients with these diseases to be eligible for our clinical trials. We may not be able to initiate or continue clinical trials for each or all of our product candidates if we are unable to locate a sufficient number of eligible patients to participate in the clinical trials required by the FDA or other non-U.S. regulatory agencies. For example, the entry criteria for our ongoing Phase 3 study in migalastat HCl for Fabry disease to support approval in the United States (Study 011) requires that patients must have a genetic mutation that we believe is responsive to migalastat HCl, and may not have received ERT in the past or must have stopped treatment for at least six months prior to enrolling in the study. As a result, enrollment of the study lasted for over two years. In addition, the requirements of our clinical testing mandate that a patient cannot be involved in another clinical trial for the same indication. We are aware that our competitors have ongoing clinical trials for products that are competitive with our product candidates and patients who would otherwise be eligible for our clinical trials may be involved in such testing, rendering them unavailable for testing of our product candidates. Our inability to enroll a sufficient number of patients for any of our current or future clinical trials would result in significant delays or may require us to abandon one or more clinical trials altogether. If our preclinical studies do not produce positive results, if our clinical trials are delayed or if serious side effects are identified during drug development, we may experience delays, incur additional costs and ultimately be unable to commercialize our product candidates. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of our product candidates, we must conduct, at our own expense, extensive preclinical tests to demonstrate the safety of our product candidates in animals, and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates in humans. Preclinical and clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement and can take many years to complete. A failure of one or more of our preclinical studies or clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, preclinical testing and the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent our ability to obtain regulatory approval or commercialize our product candidates, including: •our preclinical tests or clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional preclinical testing or clinical trials or we may abandon projects that we expect to be promising; -35- Table of Contents •we may decide to amend existing protocols for on-going clinical trials; •regulators or institutional review boards may not authorize us to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site; •conditions imposed on us by the FDA or any non-U.S. regulatory authority regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials may require us to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to institutional review boards for re-inspection due to changes in the regulatory environment; •the number of patients required for our clinical trials may be larger than we anticipate or participants may drop out of our clinical trials at a higher rate than we anticipate; •our third party contractors or clinical investigators may fail to comply with regulatory requirements or fail to meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner; •we might have to suspend or terminate one or more of our clinical trials if we, the regulators or the institutional review boards determine that the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; •regulators or institutional review boards may require that we hold, suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements; •the cost of our clinical trials may be greater than we anticipate; •the supply or quality of our product candidates or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials, such as existing treatments like ERT, may be insufficient or inadequate or we may not be able to reach agreements on acceptable terms with prospective clinical research organizations; and •the effects of our product candidates may not be the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or the product candidates may have other unexpected characteristics. If we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing of our product candidates beyond those that we currently contemplate, if we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trials or other testing, if the results of these trials or tests are not positive or are only modestly positive or if there are safety concerns, we may: •be delayed in obtaining, or may not be able to obtain, marketing approval for one or more of our product candidates and milestone payments from our collaborators; •obtain approval for indications that are not as broad as intended or entirely different than those indications for which we sought approval; or •have the product removed from the market after obtaining marketing approval. Our product development costs will also increase if we experience delays in testing or approvals. We do not know whether any preclinical tests or clinical trials will be initiated as planned, will need to be restructured or will be completed on schedule, if at all. Significant preclinical or clinical trial delays also could shorten the patent protection period during which we may have the exclusive right to commercialize our product candidates. Such delays could allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to commercialize our products or product candidates. Even if migalastat HCl or any other product candidate that we develop receives marketing approval, we will continue to face extensive regulatory requirements and the product may still face future development and regulatory difficulties. Even if marketing approval is obtained, a regulatory authority may still impose significant restrictions on a product's indications, conditions for use, distribution or marketing or impose ongoing -36- Table of Contents requirements for potentially costly post-market surveillance, post-approval studies or clinical trials. For example, any labeling ultimately approved by the FDA for migalastat HCl, if it is approved for marketing, may include restrictions on use, such as limitations on how Fabry disease is defined and diagnosed. In addition, the labeling may include restrictions based upon evidence of specific genetic mutations or symptoms found in patients. Migalastat HCl will also be subject to ongoing FDA requirements governing the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, distribution, promotion, recordkeeping and submission of safety and other post-market information, including adverse events, and any changes to the approved product, product labeling, or manufacturing process. The FDA has significant post-market authority, including, for example, the authority to require labeling changes based on new safety information, and to require post-market studies or clinical trials to evaluate serious safety risks related to the use of a drug. For products approved under the Accelerated Approval regulations, the FDA has the authority to require clinical studies to confirm the clinical benefit associated with the surrogate endpoint. In addition, manufacturers of drug products and their facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities for compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMP, and other regulations. If we, our drug products or the manufacturing facilities for our drug products fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: •issue warning letters or untitled letters; •seek an injunction or impose civil or criminal penalties or monetary fines; •suspend or withdraw marketing approval; •suspend any ongoing clinical trials; •refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to applications submitted by us; •suspend or impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; •seize or detain products, refuse to permit the import or export of products or request that we initiate a product recall; or •refuse to allow us to enter into supply contracts, including government contracts. The FDA and other regulatory agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses. If we are found to have promoted off-label uses, we may become subject to significant liability. The FDA and other regulatory agencies strictly regulate the promotional claims that may be made about prescription products. In particular, a product may not be promoted for uses that are not approved by the FDA or such other regulatory agencies as reflected in the product's approved labeling. In particular, any labeling approved by the FDA for migalastat HCl or any of our other product candidates may include restrictions on use. The FDA may impose further requirements or restrictions on the distribution or use of migalastat HCl or any of our other product candidates as part of a REMS plan. If we receive marketing approval for migalastat HCl or any other product candidates, physicians may nevertheless prescribe such products to their patients in a manner that is inconsistent with the approved label. If we are found to have promoted such off-label uses, we may become subject to significant liability. The federal government has levied large civil and criminal fines and/or other penalties against companies for alleged improper promotion and has investigated and/or prosecuted several companies in relation to off-label promotion (which is a violation of Federal regulations). The FDA has also requested that certain companies enter into consent decrees or permanent injunctions under which specified promotional conduct is changed, curtailed, or prohibited. -37- Table of Contents The commercial success of any product candidates that we may develop, including migalastat HCl, will depend upon the degree of market acceptance by physicians, patients, third party payors and others in the medical community. Any products that we bring to the market, including migalastat HCl, may not gain market acceptance by physicians, patients, third party payors and others in the medical community. If these products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate significant product revenue and we may not become profitable. The degree of market acceptance of our product candidates, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including: •prevalence and severity of any side effects, including any limitations or warnings contained in a product's approved labeling; •efficacy and potential advantages over alternative treatments; •pricing; •relative convenience and ease of administration; •willingness of the target patient population to try new therapies and of physicians to prescribe these therapies; •strength of marketing and distribution support and timing of market introduction of competitive products; •publicity concerning our products or competing products and treatments; and •sufficient third party insurance coverage or reimbursement. Even if a product candidate displays a favorable efficacy and safety profile in preclinical and clinical trials, market acceptance of the product will not be known until after it is launched. Our efforts to educate the medical community and third party payors on the benefits of our product candidates may require significant resources and may never be successful. Such efforts to educate the marketplace may require more resources than are required by the conventional technologies marketed by our competitors. If we are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement from governments or third party payors for any products that we may develop or if we are unable to obtain acceptable prices for those products, our prospects for generating revenue and achieving profitability will suffer. Our prospects for generating revenue and achieving profitability will depend heavily upon the availability of adequate reimbursement for the use of our approved product candidates from governmental and other third party payors, both in the U.S. and in other markets. Reimbursement by a third party payor may depend upon a number of factors, including the third party payor's determination that use of a product is: •a covered benefit under its health plan; •safe, effective and medically necessary; •appropriate for the specific patient; •cost-effective; and •neither experimental nor investigational. Obtaining reimbursement approval for a product from each government or other third party payor is a time consuming and costly process that could require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost effectiveness data for the use of our products to each payor. We may not be able to provide -38- Table of Contents data sufficient to gain acceptance with respect to reimbursement or we might need to conduct post-marketing studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of any future products to such payors' satisfaction. Such studies might require us to commit a significant amount of management time and financial and other resources. Even when a payor determines that a product is eligible for reimbursement, the payor may impose coverage limitations that preclude payment for some uses that are approved by the FDA or non-U.S. regulatory authorities. In addition, there is a risk that full reimbursement may not be available for high priced products. Moreover, eligibility for coverage does not imply that any product will be reimbursed in all cases or at a rate that allows us to make a profit or even cover our costs. Interim payments for new products, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover our costs and may not be made permanent. A primary trend in the U.S. healthcare industry and elsewhere is toward cost containment. We expect recent changes in the Medicare program and increasing emphasis on managed care to continue to put pressure on pharmaceutical product pricing. For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 provides a new Medicare prescription drug benefit that began in 2006 and mandates other reforms. While we cannot predict the full outcome of the implementation of this legislation, it is possible that the new Medicare prescription drug benefit, which will be managed by private health insurers and other managed care organizations, will result in additional government reimbursement for prescription drugs, which may make some prescription drugs more affordable but may further exacerbate industry wide pressure to reduce prescription drug prices. If one or more of our product candidates reaches commercialization, such changes may have a significant impact on our ability to set a price we believe is fair for our products and may affect our ability to generate revenue and achieve or maintain profitability. In addition, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively referred to as the "Health Care Reform Law") are designed to overhaul the United States health care system and regulate many aspects of health care delivery and financing. The Health Care Reform Law is intended to broaden access to health insurance, primarily through the imposition of health insurance mandates on employers and individuals and expansion of the Medicaid program, reduce or constrain the growth of health care spending, enhance remedies against fraud and abuse, add new transparency requirements for health care and health insurance industries, impose new taxes and fees on the health industry and impose additional health policy reforms. The Health Care Reform Law will require the promulgation of substantial regulations with significant effects on the health care industry. A number of provisions contained in the Health Care Reform Law may affect us and will likely increase certain of our costs. For example, the new law revised the definition of "average manufacturer price" for reporting purposes and the volume of rebated drugs has been expanded to include beneficiaries in Medicaid managed care organizations, which could increase the amount of Medicaid drug rebates to states. Also, beginning in 2013, drug manufacturers will be required to report information on payments or transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals, as well as investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year. Under a final rule issued by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), drug manufacturers must begin to collect the required data on August 1, 2013 and report the data to CMS by March 31, 2014. Failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties. Additionally, the Health Care Reform Law includes a 50% discount on brand name drugs for Medicare Part D participants in the coverage gap, or "donut hole." We do not know the full effect that the Health Care Reform Law will have on our commercialization efforts if migalastat HCl, or any other of our drugs, is approved. Although it is too early to determine the effect of the Health Care Reform Law, the law appears likely to continue the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing, especially under the Medicare program, and may also increase our regulatory burdens and operating costs. -39- Table of Contents Governments outside the U.S. tend to impose strict price controls and reimbursement approval policies, which may adversely affect our prospects for generating revenue. In some countries, particularly European Union (EU) countries, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time (6 to 12 months or longer) after the receipt of marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost effectiveness of our product candidate to other available therapies. If reimbursement of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our prospects for generating revenue, if any, could be adversely affected and our business may suffer. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell our product candidates, including migalastat HCl, we may be unable to generate product revenue. At present, we have no sales or marketing personnel. In order to commercialize any of our product candidates, we must either acquire or internally develop sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or enter into collaborations with partners to perform these services for us. We may not be able to establish sales and distribution partnerships for other product candidates on acceptable terms or at all, and if we do enter into a distribution arrangement, our success will be dependent upon the performance of our partner. In the event that we attempt to acquire or develop our own in-house sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our products without strategic partners or licensees include: •our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; •the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or successfully market to adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe our products; •the lack of additional products to be marketed by our sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage against companies with broader product lines; •unforeseen costs associated with creating our own sales and marketing team or with entering into a partnering agreement with an independent sales and marketing organization; and •efforts by our competitors to commercialize products at or about the time when our product candidates would be coming to market. We may co-promote our product candidates in various markets with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies in instances where we believe that a larger sales and marketing presence will expand the market or accelerate penetration. If we do enter into arrangements with third parties to perform sales and marketing services, our product revenues will be lower than if we directly sold and marketed our products and any revenues received under such arrangements will depend on the skills and efforts of others. We may not be successful in entering into distribution arrangements and marketing alliances with third parties. Our failure to enter into these arrangements on favorable terms could delay or impair our ability to commercialize our product candidates and could increase our costs of commercialization. Dependence on distribution arrangements and marketing alliances to commercialize our product candidates will subject us to a number of risks, including: •we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our distributors may devote to the commercialization of our product candidates; -40- Table of Contents •our distributors may experience financial difficulties; •business combinations or significant changes in a distributor's business strategy may also adversely affect a distributor's willingness or ability to complete its obligations under any arrangement; and •these arrangements are often terminated or allowed to expire, which could interrupt the marketing and sales of a product and decrease our revenue. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, whether independently or with third parties, we may not be able to generate product revenue and may not become profitable. Product liability lawsuits against us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to limit commercialization of any products that we may develop. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our product candidates in human clinical trials and will face an even greater risk if we commercially sell any products that are approved for sale. We may be exposed to product liability claims and product recalls, including those which may arise from misuse or malfunction of, or design flaws in, such products, whether or not such problems directly relate to the products and services we have provided. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against claims that our product candidates or products caused injuries, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: •decreased demand for any product candidates or products; •damage to our reputation; •regulatory investigations, prosecutions or enforcement actions that could require costly recalls or product modifications; •withdrawal of clinical trial participants; •costs to defend the related litigation; •substantial monetary awards to trial participants or patients, including awards that substantially exceed our product liability insurance, which we would then be required to pay from other sources, if available, and would damage our ability to obtain liability insurance at reasonable costs, or at all, in the future; •loss of revenue; •the diversion of management's attention from managing our business; and •the inability to commercialize any such product candidates or products. We have liability insurance policies for our clinical trials in the geographies in which we are conducting trials. The amount of insurance that we currently hold may not be adequate to cover all liabilities that we may incur. Insurance coverage is increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost and we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or a series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to fall and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our available cash and adversely affect our business. -41- Table of Contents We face substantial competition which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing products before or more successfully than we do. The development and commercialization of new drugs is highly competitive and competition is expected to increase. We face competition with respect to our current product candidates and any products we may seek to develop, acquire or commercialize in the future from major pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies worldwide. For example, several large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies currently market and sell products for the treatment of lysosomal storage diseases, including Fabry disease. These products include sanofi aventis' Fabrazyme® and Shire plc's Replagal®. In addition, Sanofi markets and sells Myozyme® and Lumizyme® for the treatment of Pompe disease. For MPS I, Biomarin Pharmaceutical, Inc. manufactures and supplies Aldurazyme® to Sanofi for global sales and marketing. We are also aware of other enzyme replacement and substrate reduction therapies in development by third parties, including BMN-701, an enzyme replacement therapy in Phase 2/3 development for Pompe disease. Potential competitors also include academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations that conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for research, development, manufacturing and commercialization. Our competitors may develop products that are more effective, safer, more convenient or less costly than any that we are developing or that would render our product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. Our competitors may also obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for their products more rapidly than we may obtain approval for ours. We may also face competition from off-label use of other approved therapies. There can be no assurance that developments by others will not render our product candidates or any acquired products obsolete or noncompetitive either during the research phase or once the products reaches commercialization. We believe that many competitors, including academic institutions, government agencies, public and private research organizations, large pharmaceutical companies and smaller more focused companies, are attempting to develop therapies for many of our target indications. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, prosecuting intellectual property rights and marketing approved products than we do. Smaller and other early stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. These third parties compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to or necessary for our programs or advantageous to our business. In addition, if we obtain regulatory approvals for our products, manufacturing efficiency and marketing capabilities are likely to be significant competitive factors. We currently have no commercial manufacturing capability, sales force or marketing infrastructure. Further, many of our competitors have substantial resources and expertise in conducting collaborative arrangements, sourcing in-licensing arrangements and acquiring new business lines or businesses that are greater than our own. Our business activities involve the use of hazardous materials, which require compliance with environmental and occupational safety laws regulating the use of such materials. If we violate these laws, we could be subject to significant fines, liabilities or other adverse consequences. Our research and development programs involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including microbial agents, corrosive, explosive and flammable chemicals and other hazardous compounds in addition to certain biological hazardous waste. Ultimately, the activities of our third party product manufacturers when a product candidate reaches commercialization will also require the use of hazardous materials. Accordingly, we are subject to federal, state and local laws governing the use, handling and disposal of these materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for -42- Table of Contents handling and disposing of these materials comply in all material respects with the standards prescribed by local, state and federal regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In addition, our collaborators may not comply with these laws. In the event of an accident or failure to comply with environmental laws, we could be held liable for damages that result, and any such liability could exceed our assets and resources or we could be subject to limitations or stoppages related to our use of these materials which may lead to an interruption of our business operations or those of our third party contractors. While we believe that our existing insurance coverage is generally adequate for our normal handling of these hazardous materials, it may not be sufficient to cover pollution conditions or other extraordinary or unanticipated events. Furthermore, an accident could damage or force us to shut down our operations. Changes in environmental laws may impose costly compliance requirements on us or otherwise subject us to future liabilities and additional laws relating to the management, handling, generation, manufacture, transportation, storage, use and disposal of materials used in or generated by the manufacture of our products or related to our clinical trials. In addition, we cannot predict the effect that these potential requirements may have on us, our suppliers and contractors or our customers. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties Use of third parties to manufacture our product candidates may increase the risk that we will not have sufficient quantities of our product candidates or such quantities at an acceptable cost, and clinical development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed, prevented or impaired. We do not own or operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of our product candidates. We lack the resources and the capabilities to manufacture any of our product candidates on a clinical or commercial scale. We currently outsource all manufacturing and packaging of our preclinical and clinical product candidates to third parties. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling up initial production. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields and quality control, including stability of the product candidate. The occurrence of any of these problems could significantly delay our clinical trials or the commercial availability of our products. We do not currently have any agreements with third party manufacturers for the long-term commercial supply of any of our product candidates. We may be unable to enter into agreements for commercial supply with third party manufacturers, or may be unable to do so on acceptable terms. Even if we enter into these agreements, the manufacturers of each product candidate will be single source suppliers to us for a significant period of time. Reliance on third party manufacturers' entails risks, to which we would not be subject if we manufactured product candidates or products ourselves, including: •reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance; •limitations on supply availability resulting from capacity and scheduling constraints of the third parties; •impact on our reputation in the marketplace if manufacturers of our products, once commercialized, fail to meet the demands of our customers; •the possible breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party because of factors beyond our control; and •the possible termination or non-renewal of the agreement by the third party, based on its own business priorities, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. -43- Table of Contents The failure of any of our contract manufacturers to maintain high manufacturing standards could result in injury or death of clinical trial participants or patients using products. Such failure could also result in product liability claims, product recalls, product seizures or withdrawals, delays or failures in testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously harm our business or profitability. Our contract manufacturers are required to adhere to FDA regulations setting forth cGMP. These regulations cover all aspects of the manufacturing, testing, quality control and recordkeeping relating to our product candidates and any products that we may commercialize. Our manufacturers may not be able to comply with cGMP regulations or similar regulatory requirements outside the U.S. Our failure or the failure of our third party manufacturers, to comply with applicable regulations could significantly and adversely affect regulatory approval and supplies of our product candidates. Our product candidates and any products that we may develop or acquire may compete with other product candidates and products for access to manufacturing facilities. There are a limited number of manufacturers that operate under cGMP regulations and that are both capable of manufacturing for us and willing to do so. If the third parties that we engage to manufacture products for our preclinical tests and clinical trials should cease to continue to do so for any reason, we likely would experience delays in advancing these trials while we identify and qualify replacement suppliers and we may be unable to obtain replacement supplies on terms that are favorable to us. Later relocation to another manufacturer will also require notification, review and other regulatory approvals from the FDA and other regulators and will subject our production to further cost and instability in the availability of our product candidates. In addition, if we are not able to obtain adequate supplies of our product candidates or the drug substances used to manufacture them, it will be more difficult for us to develop our product candidates and compete effectively. Our current and anticipated future dependence upon others for the manufacture of our product candidates may adversely affect our future profit margins and our ability to develop product candidates and commercialize any products that obtain regulatory approval on a timely and competitive basis. Transitioning our business to focus on the commercialization of our products, specifically migalastat HCl, may require increased reliance on third-party relationships to enable this transition, which may have an adverse effect on our business. We acquired significant commercial rights to all formulations of migalastat HCl under the Revised Agreement with GSK. If we were to obtain marketing approval for migalastat HCl from the FDA, we will need to continue to transition from a company with a development focus to a company capable of supporting commercial activities. We may not be successful in such a transition. We have not yet demonstrated an ability to obtain marketing approval for or commercialize a product candidate. As a result, we may not be as successful as companies that have previously obtained marketing approval for drug candidates and commercially launched drugs. There are risks involved with both establishing our own sales and marketing capabilities and entering into arrangements with third parties to perform these services. For example, recruiting and training a sales force is expensive and time consuming and could delay any product launch. If the commercial launch of a product candidate for which we recruit a sales force and establish marketing capabilities is delayed or does not occur for any reason, we would have prematurely or unnecessarily incurred these commercialization expenses. This may be costly, and our investment would be lost if we cannot retain or reposition our sales and marketing personnel. Factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our products include: •our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; -44- Table of Contents •the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe any future products; •the lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and •unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating an independent sales and marketing organization. If we enter into arrangements with third parties to perform sales, marketing and distribution services, our product revenues or the profitability of these product revenues to us are likely to be lower than if we were to market and sell any products that we develop ourselves. In addition, we may not be successful in entering into arrangements with third parties to sell and market our product candidates or doing so on terms that are favorable to us. We likely will have little control over such third parties, and any of them may fail to devote the necessary resources and attention to sell and market our products effectively. If we do not establish sales and marketing capabilities successfully, either on our own or in collaboration with third parties, we will not be successful in commercializing our product candidates. Changes to our collaboration with GSK will require us to secure a new third party manufacturer for a key component of migalastat HCl co-formulated with human recombinant alpha-Gal enzyme. Our current co-formulated product candidate for Fabry Disease that we developed as part of our collaboration with GSK utilizes migalastat HCl co-formulated with a proprietary human recombinant alpha-Gal enzyme produced by JCR, JR-051. JCR had provided JR-051 through a direct agreement with GSK. As a result of changes to our collaboration with GSK, we no longer have a long term supply agreement for the production of JR-051 for us. JCR has committed to supplying us with enough JR-051 to conduct our planned Phase 1/2 clinical trial of the co-formulated product candidate, but for future pre-clinical studies, clinical trials and, if approved, commercialization, we will need to secure a long term supply agreement or license from JCR or another new third party supplier for human recombinant alpha-Gal enzyme or develop our own internal cell line. There are risks involved with securing a new third party supplier for human recombinant alpha-Gal enzyme. In addition to the risks described above with respect to securing and using third party manufacturers, there is also a risk that we will not be able to secure a new third party supplier for human recombinant alpha-Gal enzyme on terms acceptable to us and that the FDA will require us to conduct new preclinical studies or clinical trials of the new human recombinant alpha-Gal enzyme. If we are required to conduct such additional preclinical studies or clinical trials, it could significantly and adversely affect the overall cost of developing the co-formulated product candidate and significantly increase the timelines for development. Materials necessary to manufacture our product candidates may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which may delay the development and commercialization of our product candidates. We rely on the manufacturers of our product candidates to purchase from third party suppliers the materials necessary to produce the compounds for our preclinical and clinical studies and will rely on these other manufacturers for commercial distribution if we obtain marketing approval for any of our product candidates. Suppliers may not sell these materials to our manufacturers at the time we need them or on commercially reasonable terms and all such prices are susceptible to fluctuations in price and availability due to transportation costs, government regulations, price controls and changes in economic climate or other foreseen circumstances. We do not have any control over the process or timing of the acquisition of these materials by our manufacturers. Moreover, we currently do not have any agreements for the commercial production of these materials. If our manufacturers are unable to obtain these materials for our preclinical and clinical studies, product testing and potential regulatory -45- Table of Contents approval of our product candidates would be delayed, significantly impacting our ability to develop our product candidates. If our manufacturers or we are unable to purchase these materials after regulatory approval has been obtained for our product candidates, the commercial launch of our product candidates would be delayed or there would be a shortage in supply, which would materially affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our product candidates. We rely on third parties to conduct certain preclinical development activities and our clinical trials and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such activities and trials. We do not independently conduct clinical trials for our product candidates or certain preclinical development activities of our product candidates, such as long-term safety studies in animals. We rely on, or work in conjunction with, third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions and clinical investigators, to perform these functions. For example, we rely heavily on a contract research organization to help us conduct our ongoing Phase 3 clinical trials in migalastat HCl for the treatment of Fabry disease. Our reliance on these third parties for preclinical and clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. We are responsible for ensuring that each of our preclinical development activities and our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the applicable general investigational plan and protocols, however, we have no direct control over these researchers or contractors (except by contract), as they are not our employees. Moreover, the FDA requires us to comply with standards, commonly referred to as Good Clinical Practices for conducting, recording and reporting the results of our preclinical development activities and our clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, safety and confidentiality of trial participants are protected. Our reliance on third parties that we do not control does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. Furthermore, these third parties may also have relationships with other entities, some of which may be our competitors. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties, meet expected deadlines or conduct our preclinical development activities or our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols, we will not be able to obtain, or may be delayed in obtaining, regulatory approvals for our product candidates and will not be able to, or may be delayed in our efforts to, successfully commercialize our product candidates. Moreover, these third parties may be bought by other entities or they may go out of business, thereby preventing them from meeting their contractual obligations. We also rely on other third parties to store and distribute drug supplies for our preclinical development activities and our clinical trials. Any performance failure on the part of our existing or future distributors could delay clinical development or regulatory approval of our product candidates or commercialization of our products, producing additional losses and depriving us of potential product revenue. Extensions, delays, suspensions or terminations of our preclinical development activities or our clinical trials as a result of the performance of our independent clinical investigators and contract research organizations will delay, and make more costly, regulatory approval for any product candidates that we may develop. Any change in a contract research organization during an ongoing preclinical development activity or clinical trial could seriously delay that trial and potentially compromise the results of the activity or trial. We may not be successful in maintaining or establishing collaborations, which could adversely affect our ability to develop and, particularly in international markets, commercialize products. For each of our product candidates, we are collaborating with physicians, patient advocacy groups, foundations and government agencies in order to assist with the development of our products. We plan to pursue similar activities in future programs and plan to evaluate the merits of retaining commercialization rights for ourselves or entering into selective collaboration arrangements with leading -46- Table of Contents pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, such as our collaboration with Biogen for our Parkinson's program. We also may seek to establish collaborations for the sales, marketing and distribution of our products. If we elect to seek collaborators in the future but are unable to reach agreements with suitable collaborators, we may fail to meet our business objectives for the affected product or program. We face, and will continue to face, significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. Moreover, collaboration arrangements are complex and time consuming to negotiate, document and implement. We may not be successful in our efforts, if any, to establish and implement collaborations or other alternative arrangements. The terms of any collaboration or other arrangements that we establish, if any, may not be favorable to us. Any collaboration that we enter into may not be successful. The success of our collaboration arrangements, if any, will depend heavily on the efforts and activities of our collaborators. It is likely that any collaborators of ours will have significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that they will apply to these collaborations. The risks that we may be subject to in possible future collaborations include the following: •our collaboration agreements are likely to be for fixed terms and subject to termination by our collaborators; •our collaborators may have the first right to maintain or defend our intellectual property rights and, although we would likely have the right to assume the maintenance and defense of our intellectual property rights if our collaborators do not, our ability to do so may be compromised by our collaborators' acts or omissions; and •our collaborators may utilize our intellectual property rights in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our intellectual property rights or expose us to potential liability. Collaborations with pharmaceutical companies and other third parties often are terminated or allowed to expire by the other party. Such terminations or expirations may adversely affect us financially and could harm our business reputation in the event we elect to pursue collaborations that ultimately expire or are terminated. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to obtain and maintain protection for the intellectual property relating to our technology and products, the value of our technology and product candidates will be adversely affected. Our success will depend in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain protection in the U.S. and other countries for the intellectual property covering or incorporated into our technology and product candidates. The patent situation in the field of biotechnology and pharmaceuticals generally is highly uncertain and involves complex legal, technical, scientific and factual questions. We may not be able to obtain additional issued patents relating to our technology or product candidates. Even if issued, patents issued to us or our licensors may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated, held to be unenforceable or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or reduce the term of patent protection we may have for our product candidates. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the U.S. and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain, and we cannot ensure that: •we or our licensors were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications; •we or our licensors were the first to file patent applications for these inventions; -47- Table of Contents •others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; •any patents issued to us or our licensors will provide a basis for commercially viable products, will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties; •we will develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; •we will file patent applications for new proprietary technologies promptly or at all; •our patents will not expire prior to or shortly after commencing commercialization of a product; or •the patents of others will not have a negative effect on our ability to do business. In addition, we cannot be assured that any of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents. In particular, we have filed patent applications in the United States, the European Patent Office and other countries outside the U.S. that have not been issued as patents. These pending applications include, among others, some of the patent applications we license pursuant to a license agreement with Mount Sinai School of Medicine of New York University. If patents are not issued in respect of our pending patent applications, we may not be able to stop competitors from marketing similar products in Europe and other countries in which we do not have issued patents. The patents that we have licensed from Mt. Sinai School of Medicine relating to use of migalastat HCl to treat Fabry disease expire in 2018 in the U.S. and 2019 in Europe, Japan, and Canada. Patents that we have licensed claiming afegostat expire between 2015 and 2016 in the U.S. and in 2015 in the UK, France, Sweden, Germany, Switzerland and Japan. In the U.S., we have several issued patents that were licensed from the Mt. Sinai School of Medicine covering afegostat's methods of use which expire in 2018. We own a U.S. patent and its corresponding foreign patents and patent applications covering afegostat tartrate (a specific salt form of afegostat) and its use to treat Gaucher disease, which expires in 2027. Other than the patents and patent applications covering afegostat tartrate and its use to treat Gaucher disease, we currently have no pending or issued patents covering methods of using afegostat to treat Gaucher disease outside of the U.S. other than the pending applications covering the use of afegostat in combination with ERT to treat Gaucher disease. Patents and patent applications that we own or have licensed relating to the use of AT2220 (duvoglustat HCl) expire in 2018 in the U.S. (not including the Hatch-Waxman statutory extension, which is described above). Further, we currently do not have composition of matter protection for AT2220 (duvoglustat HCl) in the U.S. or either composition of matter or method of use protection outside of the U.S. Where we lack patent protection outside of the U.S., we intend to seek orphan medicinal product designation and to rely on statutory data exclusivity provisions in jurisdictions outside the U.S. where such protections are available, including Europe. If we are unable to obtain such protection outside the U.S., our competitors may be free to use and sell afegostat and/or AT2220 (duvoglustat HCl) outside of the U.S. and there will be no liability for infringement or any other barrier to competition. The patent rights that we own or have licensed relating to our product candidates are limited in ways that may affect our ability to exclude third parties from competing against us if we obtain regulatory approval to market these product candidates. In particular: •We do not hold composition of matter patents covering migalastat HCl and AT2220 (duvoglustat HCl). Composition of matter patents can provide protection for pharmaceutical products to the extent that the specifically covered compositions are important. For our product candidates for which we do not hold composition of matter patents, competitors who obtain the requisite regulatory approval can offer products with the same composition as our products so long as the competitors do not infringe any method of use patents that we may hold. -48- Table of Contents •For some of our product candidates, the principal patent protection that covers or those we expect will cover, our product candidate is a method of use patent. This type of patent only protects the product when used or sold for the specified method. However, this type of patent does not limit a competitor from making and marketing a product that is identical to our product that is labeled for an indication that is outside of the patented method, or for which there is a substantial use in commerce outside the patented method. Moreover, physicians may prescribe such a competitive identical product for indications other than the one for which the product has been approved, or off-label indications, that are covered by the applicable patents. Although such off-label prescriptions may infringe or induce infringement of method of use patents, the practice is common and such infringement is difficult to prevent or prosecute. Our patents also may not afford us protection against competitors with similar technology. Because patent applications in the U.S. and many other jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases not at all, and because publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind the actual discoveries, neither we nor our licensors can be certain that we or they were the first to make the inventions claimed in our or their issued patents or pending patent applications, or that we or they were the first to file for protection of the inventions set forth in these patent applications. If a third party has also filed a U.S. patent application covering our product candidates or a similar invention, we may have to participate in an adversarial proceeding, known as an interference, declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention in the U.S. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial and it is possible that our efforts could be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our U.S. patent position. If we fail to comply with our obligations in our intellectual property licenses with third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. We are a party to a number of license agreements including agreements with the Mount Sinai School of Medicine of New York University, the University of Maryland, Baltimore County and Novo Nordisk A/S, pursuant to which we license key intellectual property relating to our lead product candidates. We expect to enter into additional licenses in the future. Under our existing licenses, we have the right to enforce the licensed patent rights. Our existing licenses impose, and we expect that future licenses will impose, various diligences, milestone payment, royalty, insurance and other obligations on us. If we fail to comply with these obligations, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license, in which event we might not be able to market any product that is covered by the licensed patents. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected. We seek to protect our know-how and confidential information, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees, corporate partners, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers, consultants and other advisors. We also have confidentiality and invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and our consultants. If our employees or consultants breach these agreements, we may not have adequate remedies for any of these breaches. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known to or be independently developed by others. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the U.S. may be less willing to protect trade secrets. Costly and time consuming litigation could be necessary to seek to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. -49- Table of Contents If we infringe or are alleged to infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, it will adversely affect our business. Our research, development and commercialization activities, as well as any product candidates or products resulting from these activities, may infringe or be accused of infringing one or more claims of an issued patent or may fall within the scope of one or more claims in a published patent application that may subsequently issue and to which we do not hold a license or other rights. Third parties may own or control these patents or patent applications in the U.S. and abroad. These third parties could bring claims against us that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful against us, could cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us, we or they could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of the product or product candidate that is the subject of the suit. No assurance can be given that patents do not exist, have not been filed, or could not be filed or issued, which contain claims covering our product candidates, technology or methods. Because of the number of patents issued and patent applications filed in our field, we believe there is a risk that third parties may allege they have patent rights encompassing our product candidates, technology or methods. We are aware, for example, of U.S. patents, and corresponding international counterparts, owned by third parties that contain claims related to treating protein misfolding. If any of these patents were to be asserted against us, while we do not believe that our product candidates would be found to infringe any valid claim of such patents, there is no assurance that a court would find in our favor or that, if we choose or are required to seek a license with respect to such patents, such license would be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we were to challenge the validity of any issued U.S. patent in court, we would need to overcome a presumption of validity that attaches to every patent. This burden is high and would require us to present clear and convincing evidence as to the invalidity of the patent's claims. There is no assurance that a court would find in our favor on infringement or validity. In order to avoid or settle potential claims with respect to any of the patent rights described above or any other patent rights of third parties, we may choose or be required to seek a license from a third party and be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we or our collaborators were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations, if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. This could harm our business significantly. Others may sue us for infringing their patent or other intellectual property rights or file nullity, opposition or interference proceedings against our patents, even if such claims are without merit, which would similarly harm our business. Furthermore, during the course of litigation, confidential information may be disclosed in the form of documents or testimony in connection with discovery requests, depositions or trial testimony. Disclosure of our confidential information and our involvement in intellectual property litigation could materially adversely affect our business. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. In addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology. Even if we prevail, the cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceeding could be substantial. -50- Table of Contents Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from any litigation could significantly limit our ability to continue our operations. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. We try to ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us. However, we may be subject to claims that we or these employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed intellectual property, trade secrets or other proprietary information of any such employee's former employer. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims and, even if we are successful in defending ourselves, could result in substantial costs to us or be distracting to our management. If we fail to defend any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may jeopardize valuable intellectual property rights, disclose confidential information or lose personnel. Risks Related to Regulatory Approval of Our Product Candidates If we are not able to obtain and maintain required regulatory approvals, we will not be able to commercialize our product candidates, and our ability to generate revenue will be materially impaired. Our product candidates, including migalastat HCl, and the activities associated with their development and commercialization, including their testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, recordkeeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution, are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the U.S. and by comparable authorities in other countries. Failure to obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate will prevent us from commercializing the product candidate in the jurisdiction of the regulatory authority. We have not obtained regulatory approval to market any of our product candidates in any jurisdiction. We have only limited experience in preparing, submitting and maintaining the applications necessary to obtain regulatory approvals and expect to rely on third party contract research organizations to assist us in this process. Securing FDA approval requires the submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data and supporting information to the FDA for each therapeutic indication to establish the product candidate's safety and efficacy. Securing FDA approval also requires the submission of information about the product manufacturing process to, and inspection of manufacturing facilities by, the FDA. Our future products may not be effective, may be only moderately effective or may prove to have undesirable or unintended side effects, toxicities or other characteristics that may preclude our obtaining regulatory approval or prevent or limit commercial use. Our product candidates may fail to obtain regulatory approval for many reasons, including: •our failure to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA or comparable regulatory authorities that a product candidate is safe and effective for a particular indication; •the results of clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or comparable regulatory authorities for approval; •our inability to demonstrate that a product candidate's benefits outweigh its risks; •our inability to demonstrate that the product candidate is at least as effective as existing therapies; •the FDA's or comparable regulatory authorities' disagreement with the manner in which we interpret the data from preclinical studies or clinical trials; -51- Table of Contents •the FDA's or comparable regulatory authorities' failure to approve the manufacturing processes, quality procedures or manufacturing facilities of third party manufacturers with which we contract for clinical or commercial supplies; and •a change in the approval policies or regulations of the FDA or comparable regulatory authorities or a change in the laws governing the approval process. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals is expensive, often takes many years, if approval is obtained at all, and can vary substantially based upon a variety of factors, including the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidates involved. Changes in regulatory approval policies during the development period, changes in or the enactment of additional statutes or regulations, or changes in regulatory review for each submitted product application may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application. The FDA and non-U.S. regulatory authorities have substantial discretion in the approval process and may refuse to accept any application or may decide that our data is insufficient for approval and require additional preclinical, clinical or other studies. In addition, varying interpretations of the data obtained from preclinical and clinical testing could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of a product candidate. Any regulatory approval we ultimately obtain may be limited or subject to restrictions or post approval commitments that render the approved product not commercially viable. Any FDA or other regulatory approval of our product candidates, once obtained, may be withdrawn, including for failure to comply with regulatory requirements or if clinical or manufacturing problems follow initial marketing. Our product candidates may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that could delay or prevent their regulatory approval or commercialization. Undesirable side effects caused by our product candidates could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications, and in turn prevent us from commercializing our product candidates and generating revenues from their sale. In addition, if any of our product candidates receive marketing approval and we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by the product: •regulatory authorities may require the addition of restrictive labeling statements; •regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product; and •we may be required to change the way the product is administered or conduct additional clinical trials. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing the product candidate, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating significant revenues from its sale or adversely affect our reputation. We may not be able to obtain orphan drug exclusivity for our product candidates. If our competitors are able to obtain orphan drug exclusivity for their products that are the same drug as our product candidates, we may not be able to have competing products approved by the applicable regulatory authority for a significant period of time. Regulatory authorities in some jurisdictions, including the U.S. and Europe, may designate drugs for relatively small patient populations as orphan drugs. We obtained orphan drug designations from the FDA for migalastat HCl for the treatment of Fabry disease in February 2004, for the active ingredient in afegostat for the treatment of Gaucher disease in January 2006 and for AT2220 for the treatment of Pompe disease in June 2007. We also obtained orphan medicinal product designation in the EU for migalastat HCl in May 2006 and for afegostat in October 2007. We anticipate filing for orphan drug designation in the EU for AT2220 for the treatment of Pompe disease. Generally, if a -52- Table of Contents product with an orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first marketing approval for the indication for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to a period of marketing exclusivity, which precludes the applicable regulatory authority from approving another marketing application for the same drug for that time period. The applicable period is 7 years in the U.S. and 10 years in Europe. For a drug composed of small molecules, the FDA defines "same drug" as a drug that contains the same active molecule and is intended for the same use. Obtaining orphan drug exclusivity for migalastat HCl and afegostat may be important to each of the product candidate's success. Even if we obtain orphan drug exclusivity for our products, we may not be able to maintain it. For example, if a competitive product that is the same drug as our product candidate is shown to be clinically superior to our product candidate, any orphan drug exclusivity we have obtained will not block the approval of such competitive product and we may effectively lose what had previously been orphan drug exclusivity. Any product for which we obtain marketing approval could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products, when and if any of them are approved. Any product for which we obtain marketing approval, along with the manufacturing processes, post approval clinical data, labeling, advertising and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continual requirements of and review by the FDA and comparable regulatory authorities. These requirements include submissions of safety and other post marketing information and reports, registration requirements, cGMP requirements relating to quality control, quality assurance and corresponding maintenance of records and documents, requirements regarding the distribution of samples to physicians and recordkeeping. Even if we obtain regulatory approval of a product, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to the conditions of approval, or contain requirements for costly post marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product. We also may be subject to state laws and registration requirements covering the distribution of our products. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in actions such as: •restrictions on such products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes; •warning letters; •withdrawal of the products from the market; •refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit; •voluntary or mandatory recall; •fines; •suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals or refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit; •refusal to permit the import or export of our products; •product seizure or detentions; •injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties; and •adverse publicity. If we, or our suppliers, third party contractors, clinical investigators or collaborators are slow to adapt, or are unable to adapt, to changes in existing regulatory requirements or adoption of new regulatory requirements or policies, we or our collaborators may lose marketing approval for our -53- Table of Contents products when and if any of them are approved, resulting in decreased revenue from milestones, product sales or royalties. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in international jurisdictions would prevent us from marketing our products abroad. In order to market our products in the EU and many other jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional testing and clinical trials. The time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process outside the U.S. may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. In addition, in many countries outside the U.S., it is required that the product be approved for reimbursement by government-backed healthcare regulators or insurance providers before the product can be approved for sale in that country. We may not obtain approvals from regulatory authorities outside the U.S. on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions, and approval by one regulatory authority outside the U.S. does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions or by the FDA. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market. Risks Related to Employee Matters Our future success depends on our ability to retain our Chief Executive Officer and other key executives and to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. We are highly dependent on John F. Crowley, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Bradley L. Campbell, our Chief Operating Officer, and William D. Baird, III, our Chief Financial Officer. These executives each have significant pharmaceutical industry experience. Mr. Crowley is a commissioned officer in the U.S. Navy (Reserve), and he may be called to active duty service at any time. The loss of Mr. Crowley for protracted military duty could materially adversely affect our business. The loss of the services of any of these executives might impede the achievement of our research, development and commercialization objectives and materially adversely affect our business. We do not maintain "key person" insurance on Mr. Crowley or on any of our other executive officers. Recruiting and retaining qualified scientific, clinical and sales and marketing personnel will also be critical to our success. In addition, maintaining a qualified finance and legal department is key to our ability to meet our regulatory obligations as a public company and important in any potential capital raising activities. Our industry has experienced a high rate of turnover in recent years. We may not be able to attract and retain these personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for similar personnel, particularly in New Jersey and surrounding areas. Although we believe we offer competitive salaries and benefits, we may have to increase spending in order to retain personnel. If we fail to retain our remaining qualified personnel or replace them when they leave, we may be unable to continue our development and commercialization activities. In addition, we rely on consultants and advisors, including scientific and clinical advisors, to assist us in formulating our research and development and commercialization strategy. Our consultants and advisors may be employed by employers other than us and may have commitments under consulting or advisory contracts with other entities that may limit their availability to us. -54- Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders maintain the ability to control all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval. Our executive officers, directors and affiliated stockholders beneficially own shares representing approximately 49% of our common stock as of December 31, 2013. As a result, if these stockholders were to choose to act together, they would be able to control all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, as well as our management and affairs. For example, these persons, if they choose to act together, will control the election of directors and approval of any merger, consolidation, sale of all or substantially all of our assets or other business combination or reorganization. This concentration of voting power could delay or prevent an acquisition of us on terms that other stockholders may desire. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with the interests of other stockholders, and they may act, whether by meeting or written consent of stockholders, in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders, including obtaining a premium value for their common stock, and might affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. Provisions in our corporate charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our corporate charter and our bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of us that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. Because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. Among others, these provisions: •establish a classified board of directors, and, as a result, not all directors are elected at one time; •allow the authorized number of our directors to be changed only by resolution of our board of directors; •limit the manner in which stockholders can remove directors from our board of directors; •establish advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings and nominations to our board of directors; •require that stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called stockholder meeting and prohibit actions by our stockholders by written consent; •limit who may call stockholder meetings; •authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock, without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a "poison pill" that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our board of directors; and •require the approval of the holders of at least 67% of the outstanding voting stock to amend or repeal certain provisions of our charter or bylaws. -55- Table of Contents Moreover, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner. An active trading market for our common stock may not be sustained. We completed our initial public offering of equity securities in June 2007, and prior to such offering, there was no public market for our common stock. Although we are listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, an active trading market for our common stock only recently developed and may not be sustained, especially given the large percentage of our common stock held by insiders and affiliated stockholders. If an active market for our common stock is not sustained, it may be difficult for our stockholders to sell shares without depressing the market price for our common stock. If the price of our common stock is volatile, purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. The price of our common stock is volatile. The stock market in general and the market for biotechnology companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: •results of clinical trials of our product candidates or those of our competitors; •our entry into or the loss of a significant collaboration; •regulatory or legal developments in the U.S. and other countries, including changes in the health care payment systems; •variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; •changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems; •market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors and issuance of new or changed securities analysts' reports or recommendations; •general economic, industry and market conditions; •results of clinical trials conducted by others on drugs that would compete with our product candidates; •developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; •public concern over our product candidates or any products approved in the future; •litigation; •acquisitions of business or assets; •future sales or anticipated sales of our common stock by us or our stockholders; and •the other factors described in this "Risk Factors" section. For these reasons and others potential purchasers of our common stock should consider an investment in our common stock as risky and invest only if they can withstand a significant loss and wide fluctuations in the marked value of their investment. -56- Table of Contents If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports or publish unfavorable research about our business, the price of our common stock and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If securities or industry analysts do not initiate or continue coverage of us, the trading price for our common stock would be negatively affected. In the event we obtain securities or industry analyst coverage, if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our common stock, the price of our common stock would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases to cover us or fails to publish regular reports on us, interest in the purchase of our common stock could decrease, which could cause the price of our common stock or trading volume to decline. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 