ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business is subject to numerous risks. We caution you that the following important factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf in filings with the SEC, press releases, communications with investors and oral statements. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in any other public statements we make may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in the discussion below will be important in determining future results. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Actual future results may vary materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosure we make in our reports filed with the SEC. Risks Related to Our Business Risks Related to Being an Early Stage Company Because we have a short operating history, there is a limited amount of information about us upon which you can evaluate our business and prospects. Our operations began in June 2002 and we have only a limited operating history upon which you can evaluate our business and prospects. In addition, as an early stage company, we have limited experience and have not yet demonstrated an ability to successfully overcome many of the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving fields, particularly in the biopharmaceutical area. For example, to execute our business plan, we will need to successfully: • execute product development activities using an unproven technology; • build and maintain a strong intellectual property portfolio; • gain acceptance for the development and commercialization of our products; • develop and maintain successful strategic relationships; and • manage our spending as costs and expenses increase due to clinical trials, regulatory approvals and commercialization. If we are unsuccessful in accomplishing these objectives, we may not be able to develop product candidates, raise capital, expand our business or continue our operations. The approach we are taking to discover and develop novel drugs is unproven and may never lead to marketable products. We have concentrated our efforts and therapeutic product research on RNAi technology, and our future success depends on the successful development of this technology and products based on RNAi technology. Neither we nor any other company has received regulatory approval to market therapeutics utilizing small interfering RNAs, or siRNAs, the class of molecule we are trying to develop into drugs. The scientific discoveries that form the basis for our efforts to discover and develop new drugs are relatively new. The scientific evidence to support the feasibility of developing drugs based on these discoveries is both preliminary and limited. Skepticism as to the feasibility of developing RNAi therapeutics has been expressed in scientific literature. For example, there are potential challenges to achieving safe RNAi therapeutics based on the so-called off-target effects and activation of the interferon response. There are also potential challenges to achieving effective RNAi therapeutics based on the need to achieve efficient delivery into cells and tissues in a clinically relevant manner and at doses that are cost-effective. Very few drug candidates based on these discoveries have ever been tested in animals or humans. siRNAs may not naturally possess the inherent properties typically required of drugs, such as the ability to be stable in the body long enough to reach the tissues in which their effects are required, nor the ability to enter cells within these tissues in order to exert their effects. We currently have only limited data, and no conclusive evidence, to suggest that we 28 Table of Contents can introduce these drug-like properties into siRNAs. We may spend large amounts of money trying to introduce these properties, and may never succeed in doing so. In addition, these compounds may not demonstrate in patients the chemical and pharmacological properties ascribed to them in laboratory studies, and they may interact with human biological systems in unforeseen, ineffective or harmful ways. As a result, we may never succeed in developing a marketable product. If we do not successfully develop and commercialize drugs based upon our technological approach, we may not become profitable and the value of our common stock will decline. Further, our focus solely on RNAi technology for developing drugs as opposed to multiple, more proven technologies for drug development, increases the risks associated with the ownership of our common stock. If we are not successful in developing a product candidate using RNAi technology, we may be required to change the scope and direction of our product development activities. In that case, we may not be able to identify and implement successfully an alternative product development strategy. Risks Related to Our Financial Results and Need for Financing We have a history of losses and may never be profitable. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $140.5 million. To date, we have not developed any products nor generated any revenues from the sale of products. Further, we do not expect to generate any such revenues in the foreseeable future. We expect to continue to incur annual net operating losses over the next several years as we expand our efforts to discover, develop and commercialize RNAi therapeutics. We anticipate that the majority of any revenue we generate over the next several years will be from collaborations with pharmaceutical companies or funding from contracts with the government, but cannot be certain that we will be able to secure or maintain these collaborations or contracts or to meet the obligations or achieve any milestones that we may be required to meet or achieve to receive payments. If we are unable to secure revenue from collaborations, we may be unable to continue our efforts to discover, develop and commercialize RNAi therapeutics without raising financing from other sources. To become and remain profitable, we must succeed in developing and commercializing novel drugs with significant market potential. This will require us to be successful in a range of challenging activities, including pre-clinical testing and clinical trial stages of development, obtaining regulatory approval for these novel drugs, and manufacturing, marketing and selling them. We may never succeed in these activities, and may never generate revenues that are significant enough to achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we cannot become and remain profitable, the market price of our common stock could decline. In addition, we may be unable to raise capital, expand our business, diversify our product offerings or continue our operations. We will require substantial additional funds to complete our research and development activities and if additional funds are not available we may need to critically limit, significantly scale back or cease our operations. We have used substantial funds to develop our RNAi technologies and will require substantial funds to conduct further research and development, including pre-clinical testing and clinical trials of any product candidates, and to manufacture and market any products that are approved for commercial sale. Because the successful development of our products is uncertain, we are unable to estimate the actual funds we will require to develop and commercialize them. Our future capital requirements and the period for which we expect our existing resources to support our operations may vary from what we expect. We have based our expectations on a number of factors, many of which are difficult to predict or are outside of our control, including: • our progress in demonstrating that siRNAs can be active as drugs; • our ability to develop relatively standard procedures for selecting and modifying siRNA drug candidates; • progress in our research and development programs, as well as the magnitude of these programs; 29 Table of Contents • the timing, receipt and amount of milestone and other payments, if any, from present and future collaborators, if any; • the timing, receipt and amount of funding under current and future government contracts, if any; • our ability to establish and maintain additional collaborative arrangements; • the resources, time and costs required to initiate and complete our pre-clinical and clinical trials, obtain regulatory approvals, protect our intellectual property and obtain and maintain licenses to third-party intellectual property; and • the timing, receipt and amount of sales and royalties, if any, from our potential products. If our estimates and predictions relating to these factors are incorrect, we may need to modify our operating plan. We will be required to seek additional funding in the future and intend to do so through either collaborative arrangements, public or private equity offerings or debt financings, or a combination of one or more of these funding sources. Additional funds may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, the terms of any financing may adversely affect the holdings or the rights of our stockholders. For example, if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, further dilution to our stockholders will result. In addition, our investor rights agreement with Novartis provides Novartis with the right generally to maintain its ownership percentage in Alnylam. While the exercise of this right may provide us with additional funding under some circumstances, Novartis’ exercise of this right will also cause further dilution to our stockholders. Debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants that could limit our flexibility in conducting future business activities. If we are unable to obtain funding on a timely basis, we may be required to significantly curtail one or more of our research or development programs. We also could be required to seek funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, product candidates or products that we would otherwise pursue on our own. If the estimates we make, or the assumptions on which we rely, in preparing our financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual results may vary from those reflected in our projections and accruals. Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, the amounts of charges accrued by us and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. We cannot assure you, however, that our estimates, or the assumptions underlying them, will be correct. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties Our collaboration with Novartis is important to our business. If this collaboration is unsuccessful, Novartis terminates this collaboration or this collaboration results in competition between us and Novartis for the development of drugs targeting the same diseases, our business could be adversely affected. In October 2005, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Novartis. Under this agreement, Novartis will select disease targets towards which the parties will collaborate to develop drug candidates. Novartis will pay a portion of the costs to develop these drug candidates and will commercialize and market any products derived from this collaboration. In addition, Novartis will pay us certain pre-determined amounts based on the achievement of pre-clinical and clinical milestones as well as royalties on the annual net sales of any products derived from this collaboration. This collaboration has an initial term of three years that may be extended by Novartis for two additional one-year terms. Novartis may elect to terminate this collaboration after two years under some circumstances or in the event of a material uncured breach by us. We expect that a substantial amount of the funding for our operations will come from this collaboration. If this collaboration is unsuccessful, or if it is terminated, our business could be adversely affected. 30 Table of Contents This agreement also provides Novartis with a non-exclusive option to integrate our intellectual property into Novartis’ operations and develop products without our involvement for a pre-determined fee. If Novartis elects to exercise this option, Novartis could become a competitor of ours in the development of RNAi-based drugs targeting the same diseases. Novartis has significantly greater financial resources than we do and has far more experience in developing and marketing drugs, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage if we were to compete with Novartis in the development of RNAi-based drugs targeting the same disease. The exercise by Novartis of this option could adversely affect our business. Our agreement with Novartis allows us to continue to develop products on our own with respect to targets not selected by Novartis for inclusion in the collaboration. We may need to form additional alliances to develop products. However, our agreement with Novartis provides Novartis with a right of first offer in the event that we propose to enter into an agreement with a third party with respect to such targets. This right of first offer may make it difficult for us to form future alliances with other parties, which could impair development of our own products. If we are unable to develop products independent of Novartis, our business could be adversely affected. We may not be able to execute our business strategy if we are unable to enter into alliances with other companies that can provide capabilities and funds for the development and commercialization of our drug candidates. If we are unsuccessful in forming or maintaining these alliances on favorable terms, our business may not succeed. We do not have any capability for sales, marketing or distribution and have limited capabilities for drug development. Accordingly, we have entered into alliances with other companies that can provide such capabilities and may need to enter into additional alliances in the future. For example, we may enter into alliances with major pharmaceutical companies to jointly develop specific drug candidates and to jointly commercialize them if they are approved. In such alliances, we would expect our pharmaceutical collaborators to provide substantial capabilities in clinical development, regulatory affairs, marketing and sales. We may not be successful in entering into any such alliances on favorable terms due to various factors including Novartis’ right of first offer. Even if we do succeed in securing such alliances, we may not be able to maintain them if, for example, development or approval of a drug candidate is delayed or sales of an approved drug are disappointing. Furthermore, any delay in entering into collaboration agreements could delay the development and commercialization of our drug candidates and reduce their competitiveness even if they reach the market. Any such delay related to our collaborations could adversely affect our business. For certain drug candidates that we may develop, we have formed collaborations to fund all or part of the costs of drug development and commercialization, such as our collaborations with Novartis, as well as collaborations with Merck, Medtronic, Biogen Idec and the NIAID, a component of the NIH. We may not, however, be able to enter into additional collaborations, and the terms of any collaboration agreement we do secure may not be favorable to us. If we are not successful in our efforts to enter into future collaboration arrangements with respect to a particular drug candidate, we may not have sufficient funds to develop this or any other drug candidate internally, or to bring any drug candidates to market. If we do not have sufficient funds to develop and bring our drug candidates to market, we will not be able to generate sales revenues from these drug candidates, and this will substantially harm our business. If any collaborator terminates or fails to perform its obligations under agreements with us, the development and commercialization of our drug candidates could be delayed or terminated. Our dependence on collaborators for capabilities and funding means that our business would be adversely affected if any collaborator terminates its collaboration agreement with us or fails to perform its obligations under that agreement. Our current or future collaborations, if any, may not be scientifically or commercially successful. Disputes may arise in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to technology or products developed with collaborators, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to develop and commercialize any affected product candidate. Our current collaborations allow, and we expect that any future collaborations will allow, either party to terminate the collaboration for a material breach by the other party. If a collaborator terminates its collaboration 31 Table of Contents with us, for breach or otherwise, it would be difficult for us to attract new collaborators and could adversely affect how we are perceived in the business and financial communities. In addition, a collaborator could determine that it is in its financial interest to: • pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products, either on its own or jointly with others, that may be competitive with the products on which it is collaborating with us or which could affect its commitment to the collaboration with us; • pursue higher-priority programs or change the focus of its development programs, which could affect the collaborator’s commitment to us; or • if it has marketing rights, choose to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our product candidates, if any are approved for marketing, than it does for product candidates of its own development. If any of these occur, the development and commercialization of one or more drug candidates could be delayed, curtailed or terminated because we may not have sufficient financial resources or capabilities to continue such development and commercialization on our own. We depend on a government contract to partially fund our research and development efforts and may enter into additional government contracts in the future. If current or future government funding, if any, is reduced or delayed, our drug development efforts may be negatively affected. In September 2006, the NIAID awarded us a contract for up to $23 million over four years to advance the development of a broad spectrum RNAi anti-viral therapeutic against hemorrhagic fever virus, including the Ebola virus. Of the $23 million, the government has committed to pay us $14.2 million over the first two years of the contract and, subject to budgetary considerations in future years, the remaining $8.8 million over the last two years of the contract. We cannot be certain that the government will appropriate the funds necessary for this contract in future budgets. In addition, the government can terminate the agreement in specified circumstances. If we do not receive the $23 million we expect to receive under this contract, we may not be able to develop therapeutics to treat Ebola. We have very limited manufacturing experience or resources and we must incur significant costs to develop this expertise or rely on third parties to manufacture our products. We have very limited manufacturing experience. Our internal manufacturing capabilities are limited to small-scale production of non-good manufacturing practice material for use in in vitro and in vivo experiments. Our products may also depend upon the use of specialized formulations, such as liposomes, whose scale-up and manufacturing could also be very difficult. We also have very limited experience of such scale-up and manufacturing, requiring us to depend on third parties, who might not be able to deliver at all or in a timely manner. In order to develop products, apply for regulatory approvals and commercialize our products, we will need to develop, contract for, or otherwise arrange for the necessary manufacturing capabilities. We may manufacture clinical trial materials ourselves or we may rely on others to manufacture the materials we will require for any clinical trials that we initiate. Only a limited number of manufacturers supply synthetic RNAi. We currently rely on several contract manufacturers for our supply of synthetic RNAi. There are risks inherent in pharmaceutical manufacturing that could affect the ability of our contract manufacturers to meet our delivery time requirements or provide adequate amounts of material to meet our needs. Included in these risks are synthesis and purification failures and contamination during the manufacturing process, both of which could result in unusable product and cause delays in our development process. In addition, to fulfill our RNAi requirements we may need to secure alternative suppliers of synthetic RNAi. The manufacturing process for any products that we may develop is an element of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, approval process and we will need to contract with manufacturers who can meet all applicable FDA requirements on an ongoing basis. In addition, if we receive the necessary regulatory approval for any product candidate, we also expect to rely on third parties, including our commercial collaborators, to produce materials required for commercial production. We may experience difficulty in obtaining adequate manufacturing capacity for our needs. If we are unable to obtain or maintain contract manufacturing for these product candidates, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to successfully develop and commercialize our products. 32 Table of Contents To the extent that we enter into manufacturing arrangements with third parties, we will depend on these third parties to perform their obligations in a timely manner and consistent with regulatory requirements, including those related to quality control and quality assurance. The failure of a third-party manufacturer to perform its obligations as expected could adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including: • we may not be able to initiate or continue clinical trials of products that are under development; • we may be delayed in submitting applications for regulatory approvals for our products; • we may lose the cooperation of our collaborators; • we may be required to cease distribution or recall some or all batches of our products; and • ultimately, we may not be able to meet commercial demands for our products. If a third-party manufacturer with whom we contract fails to perform its obligations, we may be forced to manufacture the materials ourselves, for which we may not have the capabilities or resources, or enter into an agreement with a different third-party manufacturer, which we may not be able to do with reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, if we are required to change manufacturers for any reason, we will be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines. The delays associated with the verification of a new manufacturer could negatively affect our ability to develop product candidates in a timely manner or within budget. Furthermore, a manufacturer may possess technology related to the manufacture of our product candidate that such manufacturer owns independently. This would increase our reliance on such manufacturer or require us to obtain a license from such manufacturer in order to have another third party manufacture our products. We have no sales, marketing or distribution experience and expect to depend significantly on third parties who may not successfully commercialize our products. We have no sales, marketing or distribution experience. We expect to rely heavily on third parties to launch and market certain of our product candidates, if approved. We may have limited or no control over the sales, marketing and distribution activities of these third parties. Our future revenues may depend heavily on the success of the efforts of these third parties. To develop internal sales, distribution and marketing capabilities, we will have to invest significant amounts of financial and management resources. For products where we decide to perform sales, marketing and distribution functions ourselves, we could face a number of additional risks, including: • we may not be able to attract and build a significant marketing or sales force; • the cost of establishing a marketing or sales force may not be justifiable in light of the revenues generated by any particular product; and • our direct sales and marketing efforts may not be successful. Risks Related to Managing Our Operations If we are unable to attract and retain qualified key management and scientists, staff consultants and advisors, our ability to implement our business plan may be adversely affected. We are highly dependent upon our senior management and scientific staff. The loss of the service of any of the members of our senior management, including Dr. John Maraganore, our President and Chief Executive Officer, may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of product development and other business objectives. Our employment agreements with our key personnel are terminable without notice. We do not carry key man life insurance on any of our key employees. Although we have generally been successful in our recruiting efforts, we face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities, governmental entities and other research institutions. We may be unable to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals, and our failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our ability to implement our business plan. 33 Table of Contents We may have difficulty managing our growth and expanding our operations successfully as we seek to evolve from a company primarily involved in discovery and pre-clinical testing into one that develops and commercializes drugs. Since we commenced operations in 2002, we have grown to over 122 full time equivalent employees as of February 28, 2007, with offices and laboratory space in both Cambridge, Massachusetts and Kulmbach, Germany. This rapid and substantial growth, and the geographical separation of our sites, has placed a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure, and we anticipate that our continued growth will have a similar impact. If drug candidates we develop enter and advance through clinical trials, we will need to expand our development, regulatory, manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities or contract with other organizations to provide these capabilities for us. As our operations expand, we expect that we will need to manage additional relationships with various collaborators, suppliers and other organizations. Our ability to manage our operations and growth will require us to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures in at least two different countries. We may not be able to implement improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. If we are unable to manage the challenges associated with our international operations, the growth of our business could be limited. In addition to our operations in Cambridge, Massachusetts, we operate an office and laboratory in Kulmbach, Germany. We are subject to a number of risks and challenges that specifically relate to these international operations. Our international operations may not be successful if we are unable to meet and overcome these challenges, which could limit the growth of our business and may have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. These risks include: • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that may increase the U.S. dollar cost of our international operations; • difficulty managing operations in multiple locations, which could adversely affect the progress of our product candidate development program and business prospects; • local regulations that may restrict or impair our ability to conduct biotechnology-based research and development; • foreign protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competition; and • failure of local laws to provide the same degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property, which could adversely affect our ability to develop product candidates or reduce future product or royalty revenues, if any, from product candidates we may develop. Risks Related to Our Industry Risks Related to Development, Clinical Testing and Regulatory Approval of Our Drug Candidates Any drug candidates we develop may fail in development or be delayed to a point where they do not become commercially viable. Pre-clinical testing and clinical trials of new drug candidates are lengthy and expensive and the historical failure rate for drug candidates is high. We are developing our most advanced product candidate, ALN-RSV01, for the treatment of respiratory syncytial virus, or RSV, infection. We recently completed two Phase I clinical trials of ALN-RSV01 and began an additional Phase I clinical trial in October 2006. In addition, in November 2006, we announced that we had initiated a human experimental infection study with RSV. We may not be able to further advance this or any other product candidate through clinical trials. If we successfully enter into clinical studies, the results from pre-clinical testing of a drug candidate may not predict the results that will be obtained in human clinical trials. We, the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities, or an institutional review board, or IRB, may suspend clinical trials of a drug candidate at any time for various reasons, including if we or they believe the subjects 34 Table of Contents or patients participating in such trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks. Among other reasons, adverse side effects of a drug candidate on subjects or patients in a clinical trial could result in the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities suspending or terminating the trial and refusing to approve a particular drug candidate for any or all indications of use. Clinical trials of a new drug candidate require the enrollment of a sufficient number of patients, including patients who are suffering from the disease the drug candidate is intended to treat and who meet other eligibility criteria. Rates of patient enrollment are affected by many factors, including the size of the patient population, the age and condition of the patients, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. Delays in patient enrollment can result in increased costs and longer development times. Clinical trials also require the review and oversight of IRBs, which approve and continually review clinical investigations and protect the rights and welfare of human subjects. Inability to obtain or delay in obtaining IRB approval can prevent or delay the initiation and completion of clinical trials, and the FDA may decide not to consider any data or information derived from a clinical investigation not subject to initial and continuing IRB review and approval in support of a marketing application. Our drug candidates that we develop may encounter problems during clinical trials that will cause us or regulatory authorities to delay, suspend or terminate these trials, or that will delay the analysis of data from these trials. If we experience any such problems, we may not have the financial resources to continue development of the drug candidate that is affected, or development of any of our other drug candidates. We may also lose, or be unable to enter into, collaborative arrangements for the affected drug candidate and for other drug candidates we are developing. Delays in clinical trials could reduce the commercial viability of our drug candidates. Any of the following could delay our clinical trials: • delays in filing initial drug applications; • conditions imposed on us by the FDA or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials; • problems in engaging IRBs to oversee trials or problems in obtaining or maintaining IRB approval of studies; • delays in enrolling patients and volunteers into clinical trials; • high drop-out rates for patients and volunteers in clinical trials; • negative or inconclusive results from our clinical trials or the clinical trials of others for drug candidates similar to ours; • inadequate supply or quality of drug candidate materials or other materials necessary for the conduct of our clinical trials; • serious and unexpected drug-related side effects experienced by participants in our clinical trials or by individuals using drugs similar to our product candidate; or • unfavorable FDA inspection and review of a clinical trial site or records of any clinical or pre-clinical investigation. The FDA approval process may be delayed for any drugs we develop that require the use of specialized drug delivery devices. Some drug candidates that we develop may need to be administered using specialized drug delivery devices that deliver RNAi therapeutics directly to diseased parts of the body. We believe that any product candidate we develop for Parkinson’s disease, or PD, Huntington’s disease, or HD, or other central nervous system diseases may need to be administered using such a device. For neurodegenerative diseases, we have entered into a collaboration agreement with Medtronic to pursue potential development of drug-device combinations incorporating RNAi 35 Table of Contents therapeutics. We may not achieve successful development results under this collaboration and may need to seek other collaboration partners to develop alternative drug delivery systems, or utilize existing drug delivery systems, for the direct delivery of RNAi therapeutics for these diseases. While we expect to rely on drug delivery systems that have been approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies to deliver drugs like ours to similar physiological sites, we, or our collaborator, may need to modify the design or labeling of such delivery device for some products we may develop. In such an event, the FDA may regulate the product as a combination product or require additional approvals or clearances for the modified delivery device. Further, to the extent the specialized delivery device is owned by another company, we would need that company’s cooperation to implement the necessary changes to the device, or its labeling, and to obtain any additional approvals or clearances. In cases where we do not have an ongoing collaboration with the company that makes the device, obtaining such additional approvals or clearances and the cooperation of such other company could significantly delay and increase the cost of obtaining marketing approval, which could reduce the commercial viability of our drug candidate. In summary, we may be unable to find, or experience delays in finding, suitable drug delivery systems to administer RNAi therapeutics directly to diseased parts of the body, which could negatively affect our ability to successfully commercialize these RNAi therapeutics. We may be unable to obtain U.S. or foreign regulatory approval and, as a result, be unable to commercialize our drug candidates. Our drug candidates are subject to extensive governmental regulations relating to, among other things, research, testing, development, manufacturing, safety, efficacy, recordkeeping, labeling, marketing and distribution of drugs. Rigorous pre-clinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory approval process are required to be successfully completed in the United States and in many foreign jurisdictions before a new drug can be sold. Satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. It is possible that none of the drug candidates we may develop will obtain the appropriate regulatory approvals necessary for us or our collaborators to begin selling them. We have very little experience in conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approvals, including approval by the FDA. The time required to obtain FDA and other approvals is unpredictable but typically takes many years following the commencement of clinical trials, depending upon the complexity of the drug candidate. Any analysis we perform of data from pre-clinical and clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. We may also encounter unexpected delays or increased costs due to new government regulations, for example, from future legislation or administrative action, or from changes in FDA policy during the period of product development, clinical trials and FDA regulatory review. Because the drugs we are intending to develop may represent a new class of drug, the FDA has not yet established any definitive policies, practices or guidelines in relation to these drugs. While we expect any product candidates that we develop will be regulated as a new drug under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the FDA could decide to regulate them or other products we may develop as biologics under the Public Health Service Act. The lack of policies, practices or guidelines may hinder or slow review by the FDA of any regulatory filings that we may submit. Moreover, the FDA may respond to these submissions by defining requirements we may not have anticipated. Such responses could lead to significant delays in the clinical development of our product candidates. In addition, because there may be approved treatments for some of the diseases for which we may seek approval, in order to receive regulatory approval, we will need to demonstrate through clinical trials that the product candidates we develop to treat these diseases, if any, are not only safe and effective, but safer or more effective than existing products. Any delay or failure in obtaining required approvals could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues from the particular drug candidate. Furthermore, any regulatory approval to market a product may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which we may market the product. These limitations may limit the size of the market for the product and affect reimbursement by third-party payors. We are also subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party reimbursement. The foreign regulatory 36 Table of Contents approval process includes all of the risks associated with FDA approval described above as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of local regulations in foreign jurisdictions. Approval by the FDA does not assure approval by regulatory authorities outside the United States. If our pre-clinical testing does not produce successful results or our clinical trials do not demonstrate safety and efficacy in humans, we will not be able to commercialize our drug candidates. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of our drug candidates, we must conduct, at our own expense, extensive pre-clinical tests and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy in humans of our drug candidates. Pre-clinical and clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and is uncertain as to outcome. Success in pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. A failure of one of more of our clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, pre-clinical testing and the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent our ability to receive regulatory approval or commercialize our drug candidates, including: • regulators or IRBs may not authorize us to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site; • our pre-clinical tests or clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional pre-clinical testing or clinical trials, or we may abandon projects that we expect to be promising; • enrollment in our clinical trials may be slower than we currently anticipate or participants may drop out of our clinical trials at a higher rate than we currently anticipate, resulting in significant delays; • our third party contractors may fail to comply with regulatory requirements or meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner; • we might have to suspend or terminate our clinical trials if the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; • IRBs or regulators, including the FDA, may require that we hold, suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements; • the cost of our clinical trials may be greater than we anticipate; • the supply or quality of our drug candidates or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials may be insufficient or inadequate; and • effects of our drug candidates may not be the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or the drug candidates may have other unexpected characteristics. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals, our marketed drugs will be subject to ongoing regulatory review. If we fail to comply with continuing U.S. and foreign regulations, we could lose our approvals to market drugs and our business would be seriously harmed. Following any initial regulatory approval of any drugs we may develop, we will also be subject to continuing regulatory review, including the review of adverse drug experiences and clinical results that are reported after our drug products are made commercially available. This would include results from any post-marketing tests or vigilance required as a condition of approval. The manufacturer and manufacturing facilities we use to make any of our drug candidates will also be subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA. The discovery of any new or previously unknown problems with the product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the drug or manufacturer or facility, including withdrawal of the drug from the market. We do not have, and currently do not intend to develop, the ability to manufacture material for our clinical trials or on a commercial scale. We may manufacture clinical trial materials or we may contract a third party to manufacture these materials for us. Reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured products ourselves, 37 Table of Contents including reliance on the third-party manufacturer for regulatory compliance. Our product promotion and advertising is also subject to regulatory requirements and continuing regulatory review. If we fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval, product recalls and seizures, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. Even if we receive regulatory approval to market our product candidates, the market may not be receptive to our product candidates upon their commercial introduction, which will prevent us from becoming profitable. The product candidates that we are developing are based upon new technologies or therapeutic approaches. Key participants in pharmaceutical marketplaces, such as physicians, third-party payors and consumers, may not accept a product intended to improve therapeutic results based on RNAi technology. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to convince the medical community and third-party payors to accept and use our product, or to provide favorable reimbursement. Other factors that we believe will materially affect market acceptance of our product candidates include: • the timing of our receipt of any marketing approvals, the terms of any approvals and the countries in which approvals are obtained; • the safety, efficacy and ease of administration of our product candidates; • the willingness of patients to accept relatively new routes of administration; • the success of our physician education programs; • the availability of government and third-party payor reimbursement; • the pricing of our products, particularly as compared to alternative treatments; and • availability of alternative effective treatments for the diseases that product candidates we develop are intended to treat and the relative risks and/or benefits of the treatments. Even if we develop RNAi therapeutic products for the prevention or treatment of infection by pandemic flu virus and/or Ebola, governments may not elect to purchase such products, which could adversely affect our business. We expect that governments will be the only purchasers of any products we may develop for the prevention or treatment of pandemic flu or Ebola. In the future, we may also initiate additional programs for the development of product candidates for which governments may be the only or primary purchasers. However, governments will not be required to purchase any such products from us and may elect not to do so, which could adversely affect our business. For example, although the focus of our flu program is to develop RNAi therapeutic targeting gene sequences that are highly conserved across known flu viruses, if the sequence of any flu virus that emerges is not sufficiently similar to those we are targeting, any product candidate that we develop may not be effective against that virus. Accordingly, while we expect that any RNAi therapeutic we develop for the treatment of pandemic flu could be stockpiled by governments as part of their preparations for a flu pandemic, they may not elect to purchase such product. If we or our collaborators, manufacturers or service providers fail to comply with regulatory laws and regulations, we or they could be subject to enforcement actions, which could affect our ability to market and sell our products and may harm our reputation. If we or our collaborators, manufacturers or service providers fail to comply with applicable federal, state or foreign laws or regulations, we could be subject to enforcement actions, which could affect our ability to develop, 38 Table of Contents market and sell our products under development successfully and could harm our reputation and lead to reduced acceptance of our products by the market. These enforcement actions include: • warning letters; • product recalls or public notification or medical product safety alerts to healthcare professionals; • restrictions on, or prohibitions against, marketing our products; • restrictions on importation or exportation of our products; • suspension of review or refusal to approve pending applications; • suspension or withdrawal of product approvals; • product seizures; • injunctions; and • civil and criminal penalties and fines. Any drugs we develop may become subject to unfavorable pricing regulations, third-party reimbursement practices or healthcare reform initiatives, thereby harming our business. The regulations that govern marketing approvals, pricing and reimbursement for new drugs vary widely from country to country. Some countries require approval of the sale price of a drug before it can be marketed. In many countries, the pricing review period begins after marketing or product licensing approval is granted. In some foreign markets, prescription pharmaceutical pricing remains subject to continuing governmental control even after initial approval is granted. Although we intend to monitor these regulations, our programs are currently in the early stages of development and we will not be able to assess the impact of price regulations for a number of years. As a result, we might obtain regulatory approval for a product in a particular country, but then be subject to price regulations that delay our commercial launch of the product and negatively impact the revenues we are able to generate from the sale of the product in that country. Our ability to commercialize any products successfully also will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for these products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Even if we succeed in bringing one or more products to the market, these products may not be considered cost-effective, and the amount reimbursed for any products may be insufficient to allow us to sell our products on a competitive basis. Because our programs are in the early stages of development, we are unable at this time to determine their cost effectiveness and the level or method of reimbursement. Increasingly, the third-party payors who reimburse patients, such as government and private insurance plans, are requiring that drug companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices, and are challenging the prices charged for medical products. If the price we are able to charge for any products we develop is inadequate in light of our development and other costs, our profitability could be adversely affected. We currently expect that any drugs we develop may need to be administered under the supervision of a physician. Under currently applicable law, drugs that are not usually self-administered may be eligible for coverage by the Medicare program if: • they are incident to a physician’s services; • they are “reasonable and necessary” for the diagnosis or treatment of the illness or injury for which they are administered according to accepted standard of medical practice; • they are not excluded as immunizations; and • they have been approved by the FDA. There may be significant delays in obtaining coverage for newly-approved drugs, and coverage may be more limited than the purposes for which the drug is approved by the FDA. Moreover, eligibility for coverage does not imply that any drug will be reimbursed in all cases or at a rate that covers our costs, including research, 39 Table of Contents development, manufacture, sale and distribution. Interim payments for new drugs, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover our costs and may not be made permanent. Reimbursement may be based on payments allowed for lower-cost drugs that are already reimbursed, may be incorporated into existing payments for other services and may reflect budgetary constraints or imperfections in Medicare data. Net prices for drugs may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs or private payors and by any future relaxation of laws that presently restrict imports of drugs from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the United States. Third party payors often rely upon Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates. Our inability to promptly obtain coverage and profitable reimbursement rates from both government-funded and private payors for new drugs that we develop could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, our ability to raise capital needed to commercialize products, and our overall financial condition. We believe that the efforts of governments and third-party payors to contain or reduce the cost of healthcare will continue to affect the business and financial condition of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies. A number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in the United States and other major healthcare markets have been proposed in recent years. These proposals have included prescription drug benefit legislation recently enacted in the United States and healthcare reform legislation recently enacted by certain states. Further federal and state legislative and regulatory developments are possible and we expect ongoing initiatives in the United States to increase pressure on drug pricing. Such reforms could have an adverse effect on anticipated revenues from drug candidates that we may successfully develop. Another development that may affect the pricing of drugs is Congressional action regarding drug reimportation into the United States. The Medicare Prescription Drug Plan legislation, which became law in December 2003, required the Secretary of Health and Human Services to promulgate regulations for drug reimportation from Canada into the United States under some circumstances, including when the drugs are sold at a lower price than in the United States. The Secretary, however, retained the discretion not to implement a drug reimportation plan if he finds that the benefits do not outweigh the costs, and has so far declined to approve a reimportation plan. Proponents of drug reimportation may attempt to pass legislation that would directly allow reimportation under certain circumstances. Legislation or regulations allowing the reimportation of drugs, if enacted, could decrease the price we receive for any products that we may develop, negatively affecting our anticipated revenues and prospects for profitability. Some states and localities have established drug importation programs for their citizens, and federal drug import legislation has been introduced in Congress. The FDA has warned that imported drugs may be unsafe or illegal. If such programs become more widespread or the federal government changes its position against drug importation, prices we receive for any products that we may develop may decrease, negatively affecting our anticipated revenues and prospects for profitability. There is a substantial risk of product liability claims in our business. If we are unable to obtain sufficient insurance, a product liability claim against us could adversely affect our business. Our business exposes us to significant potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development, manufacturing and marketing of human therapeutic products. Product liability claims could delay or prevent completion of our clinical development programs. If we succeed in marketing products, such claims could result in an FDA investigation of the safety and effectiveness of our products, our manufacturing processes and facilities or our marketing programs, and potentially a recall of our products or more serious enforcement action, limitations on the indications for which they may be used, or suspension or withdrawal of approvals. We currently have product liability insurance that we believe is appropriate for our stage of development and may need to obtain higher levels prior to marketing any of our drug candidates. Any insurance we have or may obtain may not provide sufficient coverage against potential liabilities. Furthermore, clinical trial and product liability insurance is becoming increasingly expensive. As a result, we may be unable to obtain sufficient insurance at a reasonable cost to protect us against losses caused by product liability claims that could have a material adverse effect on our business. 40 Table of Contents If we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected. Our research and development involves the use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. We maintain quantities of various flammable and toxic chemicals in our facilities in Cambridge and Germany that are required for our research and development activities. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials. We believe our procedures for storing, handling and disposing these materials in our Cambridge facility comply with the relevant guidelines of the City of Cambridge and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and the procedures we employ in our German facility comply with the standards mandated by applicable German laws and guidelines. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards mandated by applicable regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. If an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. We are also subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. Although we maintain workers’ compensation insurance to cover us for costs and expenses we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. We do not maintain insurance for environmental liability or toxic tort claims that may be asserted against us in connection with our storage or disposal of biological, hazardous or radioactive materials. Additional federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. We may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate, any of these laws or regulations. Risks Related to Competition The pharmaceutical market is intensely competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively with existing drugs, new treatment methods and new technologies, we may be unable to commercialize successfully any drugs that we develop. The pharmaceutical market is intensely competitive and rapidly changing. Many large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations are pursuing the development of novel drugs for the same diseases that we are targeting or expect to target. Many of our competitors have: • much greater financial, technical and human resources than we have at every stage of the discovery, development, manufacture and commercialization of products; • more extensive experience in pre-clinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, and in manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products; • product candidates that are based on previously tested or accepted technologies; • products that have been approved or are in late stages of development; and • collaborative arrangements in our target markets with leading companies and research institutions. We will face intense competition from drugs that have already been approved and accepted by the medical community for the treatment of the conditions for which we may develop drugs. We also expect to face competition from new drugs that enter the market. We believe a significant number of drugs are currently under development, and may become commercially available in the future, for the treatment of conditions for which we may try to develop drugs. For instance, we are currently evaluating RNAi therapeutics for RSV, flu, hypercholesterolemia, PML, Ebola, HD, PD, neuropathic pain, and CF. Virazole is currently marketed for the treatment of certain RSV patients, Tamiflu® and Relenza® are marketed for the treatment of flu patients, numerous drugs are currently marketed for the treatment of hypercholesterolemia, PD and neuropathic pain and two drugs, TOBI® and 41 Table of Contents Pulmozyme®, are currently marketed for the treatment of CF. These drugs, or other of our competitors’ products, may be more effective, safer, less expensive or marketed and sold more effectively, than any products we develop. If we successfully develop drug candidates, and obtain approval for them, we will face competition based on many different factors, including: • the safety and effectiveness of our products; • the ease with which our products can be administered and the extent to which patients accept relatively new routes of administration; • the timing and scope of regulatory approvals for these products; • the availability and cost of manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities; • price; • reimbursement coverage; and • patent position. Our competitors may develop or commercialize products with significant advantages over any products we develop based on any of the factors listed above or on other factors. Our competitors may therefore be more successful in commercializing their products than we are, which could adversely affect our competitive position and business. Competitive products may make any products we develop obsolete or noncompetitive before we can recover the expenses of developing and commercializing our drug candidates. Furthermore, we also face competition from existing and new treatment methods that reduce or eliminate the need for drugs, such as the use of advanced medical devices. The development of new medical devices or other treatment methods for the diseases we are targeting could make our drug candidates noncompetitive, obsolete or uneconomical. We face competition from other companies that are working to develop novel drugs using technology similar to ours. If these companies develop drugs more rapidly than we do or their technologies are more effective, our ability to successfully commercialize drugs will be adversely affected. In addition to the competition we face from competing drugs in general, we also face competition from other companies working to develop novel drugs using technology that competes more directly with our own. We are aware of several other companies that are working in the field of RNAi, including Sirna, a subsidiary of Merck, Acuity, Nastech, Calando, Quark, Nucleonics, SR Pharma, RXi, a subsidiary of CytRx, Inc., Protiva and Intradigm. In addition, we granted licenses to Isis, GeneCare, Benitec, Nastech, Calando, Quark as well as others under which these companies may independently develop RNAi therapeutics against a limited number of targets. Any of these companies may develop its RNAi technology more rapidly and more effectively than us. Merck is currently one of our collaborators and a licensee under our intellectual property for specified disease targets. However, as a result of its acquisition of Sirna in December 2006, Merck, which has substantially more resources and experience in developing drugs than we do, could become a direct competitor. We also compete with companies working to develop antisense-based drugs. Like RNAi product candidates, antisense drugs target mRNAs in order to suppress the activity of specific genes. Isis is currently marketing an antisense drug and has several antisense drug candidates in clinical trials, and another company, Genta Inc., has multiple antisense drug candidates in late-stage clinical trials. The development of antisense drugs is more advanced than that of RNAi therapeutics, and antisense technology may become the preferred technology for drugs that target mRNAs to silence specific genes. Risks Related to Patents, Licenses and Trade Secrets If we are not able to obtain and enforce patent protection for our discoveries, our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates will be harmed. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect proprietary methods and technologies that we develop under the patent and other intellectual property laws of the United States and other countries, so that we can prevent others from unlawfully using our inventions and proprietary information. However, we may not hold proprietary 42 Table of Contents rights to some patents required for us to commercialize our proposed products. Because certain U.S. patent applications are confidential until patents issue, such as applications filed prior to November 29, 2000, or applications filed after such date which will not be filed in foreign countries, third parties may have filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending patent applications without our being aware of those applications, and our patent applications may not have priority over those applications. For this and other reasons, we may be unable to secure desired patent rights, thereby losing desired exclusivity. Further, we may be required to obtain licenses under third-party patents to market our proposed products or conduct our research and development or other activities. If licenses are not available to us on acceptable terms, we will not be able to market the affected products or conduct the desired activities. Our strategy depends on our ability to rapidly identify and seek patent protection for our discoveries. In addition, we will rely on third-party collaborators to file patent applications relating to proprietary technology that we develop jointly during certain collaborations. The process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming. If our present or future collaborators fail to file and prosecute all necessary and desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner, our business will be adversely affected. Despite our efforts and the efforts of our collaborators to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may be able to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. The issuance of a patent does not guarantee that it is valid or enforceable. Any patents we have obtained, or obtain in the future, may be challenged, invalidated, unenforceable or circumvented. Moreover, the USPTO, may commence interference proceedings involving our patents or patent applications. Any challenge to, finding of unenforceability or invalidation or circumvention of, our patents or patent applications would be costly, would require significant time and attention of our management and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents. The patent position of pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, including ours, is generally uncertain and involves complex legal and factual considerations. The standards that the USPTO and its foreign counterparts use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change. There is also no uniform, worldwide policy regarding the subject matter and scope of claims granted or allowable in pharmaceutical or biotechnology patents. Accordingly, we do not know the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights or the breadth of claims that will be allowed in any patents issued to us or to others. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and technology, which are not protected by patents, to maintain our competitive position. If any trade secret, know-how or other technology not protected by a patent were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We license patent rights from third party owners. If such owners do not properly maintain or enforce the patents underlying such licenses, our competitive position and business prospects will be harmed. We are a party to a number of licenses that give us rights to third party intellectual property that is necessary or useful for our business. In particular, we have obtained licenses from Isis, Idera Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Carnegie Institution of Washington, Cancer Research Technology Limited, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Max Planck Innovation GmbH, which was formerly known as Garching Innovation GmbH, which we refer to as Max Planck Innovation, Stanford University, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, the University of South Alabama, CBR Institute for Biomedical Research, University of British Columbia and Inex. We also intend to enter into additional licenses to third party intellectual property in the future. Our success will depend in part on the ability of our licensors to obtain, maintain and enforce patent protection for our licensed intellectual property, in particular, those patents to which we have secured exclusive rights. Our licensors may not successfully prosecute the patent applications to which we are licensed. Even if patents issue in respect of these patent applications, our licensors may fail to maintain these patents, may determine not to pursue litigation against other companies that are infringing these patents, or may pursue such litigation less aggressively than we would. Without protection for the intellectual property we license, other companies might be able to offer 43 Table of Contents substantially identical products for sale, which could adversely affect our competitive business position and harm our business prospects. Other companies or organizations may assert patent rights that prevent us from developing and commercializing our products. RNA interference is a relatively new scientific field that has generated many different patent applications from organizations and individuals seeking to obtain important patents in the field. These applications claim many different methods, compositions and processes relating to the discovery, development and commercialization of RNAi therapeutics. Because the field is so new, very few of these patent applications have been fully processed by government patent offices around the world, and there is a great deal of uncertainty about which patents will issue, when, to whom, and with what claims. It is likely that there will be significant litigation and other proceedings, such as interference and opposition proceedings in various patent offices, relating to patent rights in the RNAi field. Others may attempt to invalidate our intellectual property rights. Even if our rights are not directly challenged, disputes among third parties could lead to the weakening or invalidation of our intellectual property rights. Any attempt to circumvent or invalidate our intellectual property rights would be costly, would require significant time and attention of our management and could have a material adverse effect on our business. After the grant by the European Patent Office, or EPO, of the Kreutzer-Limmer patent, published under publication number EP 1144623B9, several oppositions to the issuance of the European patent were filed with the EPO, a practice that is allowed under the European Patent Convention, or EPC. In oral proceedings in June 2006, the EPO opposition division in charge of the opposition proceedings upheld the patent with amended claims. This decision has been appealed by two of the opponents, including Sirna, which was recently acquired by Merck and SR Pharma. Based on the appeal, the Boards of Appeal of the EPO may choose to uphold, further amend or revoke the patent it in its entirety. However, because a European Patent represents a bundle of national patents for each of the designated member states and must be enforced on a country-by country-basis, even if upheld, a National Court in one or more of the EPC member states could subsequently rule the patent invalid or unenforceable. In addition, National Courts in different countries could come to differing conclusions in interpreting the scope of the upheld claims. In addition, four parties have filed Notices of Opposition in the EPO against the Kreutzer-Limmer patent, published under the publication number EP 1214945, and one party has given notice to the Australian Patent Office, IP Australia, that it opposes the grant of our patent AU 778474, which derives from the same parent international patent application that gave rise to EP 1144623 and EP 1214945. The proceedings in the EPO and Australian Patent Office may take several years before an outcome becomes final. In addition, there are many issued and pending patents that claim aspects of oligonucleotide chemistry that we may need to apply to our siRNA drug candidates. There are also many issued patents that claim genes or portions of genes that may be relevant for siRNA drugs we wish to develop. Thus, it is possible that one or more organizations will hold patent rights to which we will need a license. If those organizations refuse to grant us a license to such patent rights on reasonable terms, we will not be able to market products or perform research and development or other activities covered by these patents. If we become involved in patent litigation or other proceedings related to a determination of rights, we could incur substantial costs and expenses, substantial liability for damages or be required to stop our product development and commercialization efforts. Third parties may sue us for infringing their patent rights. Likewise, we may need to resort to litigation to enforce a patent issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of proprietary rights of others. In addition, a third party may claim that we have improperly obtained or used its confidential or proprietary information. Furthermore, in connection with a license agreement, we have agreed to indemnify the licensor for costs incurred in connection with litigation relating to intellectual property rights. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceeding relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and the litigation would divert our management’s efforts. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. 44 Table of Contents Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could limit our ability to continue our operations. If any parties successfully claim that our creation or use of proprietary technologies infringes upon their intellectual property rights, we might be forced to pay damages, potentially including treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed on such parties’ patent rights. In addition to any damages we might have to pay, a court could require us to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license. Any license required under any patent may not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, such licenses are likely to be non-exclusive and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license and are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to effectively market some of our technology and products, which could limit our ability to generate revenues or achieve profitability and possibly prevent us from generating revenue sufficient to sustain our operations. Moreover, we expect that a number of our collaborations will provide that royalties payable to us for licenses to our intellectual property may be offset by amounts paid by our collaborators to third parties who have competing or superior intellectual property positions in the relevant fields, which could result in significant reductions in our revenues from products developed through collaborations. If we fail to comply with our obligations under any licenses or related agreements, we could lose license rights that are necessary for developing and protecting our RNAi technology and any related product candidates that we develop, or we could lose certain exclusive rights to grant sublicenses. Our current licenses impose, and any future licenses we enter into are likely to impose, various development, commercialization, funding, royalty, diligence, sublicensing, insurance and other obligations on us. If we breach any of these obligations, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license or render the license non-exclusive, which could result in us being unable to develop, manufacture and sell products that are covered by the licensed technology or enable a competitor to gain access to the licensed technology. In addition, while we cannot currently determine the amount of the royalty obligations we will be required to pay on sales of future products, if any, the amounts may be significant. The amount of our future royalty obligations will depend on the technology and intellectual property we use in products that we successfully develop and commercialize, if any. Therefore, even if we successfully develop and commercialize products, we may be unable to achieve or maintain profitability. For two important patents, owned in part or solely by Max Planck Gesellschaft, our amended licenses with Max Planck Innovation, representing Max Planck Gesellschaft, require us to maintain a minimum level of employees in Germany. If we fail to comply with this condition, the owners of the patents that are the subject of these licenses may have the right to grant a similar license to one other company. We regard these patents as significant because they relate to important aspects of the structure of siRNA molecules and their use as therapeutics. We have an agreement with Isis under which we were granted licenses to over 150 patents and patent applications that we believe will be useful to the development of RNAi therapeutics. If, by January 1, 2008, we or a collaborator have not completed the studies required for an investigational new drug application filing or similar foreign filing for at least one product candidate involving these patent rights, Isis would have the right to grant licenses to third parties for these patents and patent applications, thereby making our rights non-exclusive. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such party. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. 45 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock If our stock price fluctuates, purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to factors that are beyond our control. The stock market in general has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. The market prices of securities of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been extremely volatile, and have experienced fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations could result in extreme fluctuations in the price of our common stock, which could cause purchasers of our common stock to incur substantial losses. We may incur significant costs from class action litigation due to our expected stock volatility. Our stock price may fluctuate for many reasons, including as a result of public announcements regarding the progress of our development efforts, the addition or departure of our key personnel, variations in our quarterly operating results and changes in market valuations of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Recently, when the market price of a stock has been volatile as our stock price may be, holders of that stock have occasionally brought securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders were to bring a lawsuit of this type against us, even if the lawsuit is without merit, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. The lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. Novartis’ ownership of our common stock could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. Novartis held approximately 14% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2006. This concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock by: • delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company; • impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving our company; or • discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law and our stockholder rights plan could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. Because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors; • a prohibition on actions by our stockholders by written consent; • limitations on the removal of directors; and • advance notice requirements for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. In addition our board of directors has adopted a stockholder rights plan, the provisions of which could make it difficult for a potential acquirer of Alnylam to consummate an acquisition transaction. Moreover, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the 46 Table of Contents person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner. These provisions would apply even if the proposed merger or acquisition could be considered beneficial by some stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. We have not received written comments from the staff of the SEC regarding our periodic or current reports that remain unresolved. 