ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to the risks set forth below. Risks Related to Our Business We are dependent upon the success of our current products, and we have U.S. regulatory clearance for our C-Port system only. We cannot be certain that any of our other products will receive regulatory clearance or approval or that any of our products, including the C-Port system, will be commercialized in the United States. If we are unable to commercialize our products in the United States, or experience significant delays in doing so, our ability to generate revenue will be significantly delayed or halted, and our business will be harmed. We have expended significant time, money and effort in the development of our current products, the C-Port System, and the PAS-Port System. While we have regulatory approval for commercial sale of our C-Port system in the United States and in the European Union and our PAS-Port system in the European Union and Japan, we do not have clearance or approval in the United States for the PAS-Port system, later iterations of the C-Port system or any other product. While we believe most of our revenue in the near future will be derived from the sales and distribution of the C-Port system, we anticipate that our ability to increase our revenue in the longer term will depend on the regulatory clearance or approval and commercialization of the PAS-Port system and later iterations of the C-Port system in the United States. If we are not successful in commercializing our C-Port system or obtaining U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, clearance or approval of either our later iterations of the C-Port system or the current iteration of the PAS-Port system, or if FDA clearance or approval of any of our products is significantly delayed, we may never generate substantial revenue, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected, and we may be forced to cease operations. We commenced sales of our C-Port system in the United States in January 2006, but sales may not meet our expectations. Although we have other products under development, we may never obtain regulatory clearance or approval of those devices. We may be required to spend significant amounts of capital or time to respond to requests for additional information by the FDA or foreign regulatory bodies or may otherwise be required to spend significant amounts of time and money to obtain FDA clearance or approval and foreign regulatory approval. Imposition of any of these requirements could substantially delay or preclude us from marketing our products in the United States or foreign countries. A prior automated cardiac proximal anastomosis system was introduced by another manufacturer but was withdrawn from the market, and, as a result, we may experience difficulty in commercializing our C-Port and PAS-Port systems. A prior automated proximal anastomosis device was introduced by another manufacturer in the United States in 2002. The FDA received reports of apparently device-related adverse events, and in 2004, the device was 24 Table of Contents voluntarily withdrawn from the market by the manufacturer. Because of the FDA’s experience with this prior device, the FDA has identified new criteria for the clinical data required to obtain clearance for a proximal anastomosis device like the PAS-Port. We may not be able to show that the PAS-Port satisfies these criteria, and we may therefore be unable to obtain FDA clearance or approval to market the device in the United States, which would substantially harm our business and prospects. Moreover, physicians who have experience with or knowledge of prior anastomosis devices may be predisposed against using our C-Port or PAS-Port products, which could limit our ability to commercialize them if they are approved by the FDA. If we fail to achieve market adoption, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially harmed. Lack of third-party coverage and reimbursement for our products could delay or limit their adoption. We may experience limited sales growth resulting from limitations on reimbursements made to purchasers of our products by third-party payors, and we cannot assure you that our sales will not be impeded and our business harmed if third-party payors fail to provide reimbursement that hospitals view as adequate. In the United States, our products will be purchased primarily by medical institutions, which then bill various third-party payors, such as the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, which administer the Medicare program, and other government programs and private insurance plans, for the health care services provided to their patients. The process involved in applying for coverage and incremental reimbursement from CMS is lengthy and expensive. Even if our products receive FDA and other regulatory clearance or approval, they may not be granted coverage and reimbursement in the foreseeable future, if at all. Moreover, many private payors look to CMS in setting their reimbursement policies and amounts. If CMS or other agencies limit coverage or decrease or limit reimbursement payments for doctors and hospitals, this may affect coverage and reimbursement determinations by many private payors. We cannot assure you that CMS will provide coverage and reimbursement for our products. If a medical device does not receive incremental reimbursement from CMS, then a medical institution would have to absorb the cost of our products as part of the cost of the procedure in which the products are used. Acute care hospitals are now generally reimbursed by CMS for inpatient operating costs under a Medicare hospital inpatient prospective payment system. Under the Medicare hospital inpatient prospective payment system, acute care hospitals receive a fixed payment amount for each covered hospitalized patient based upon the Diagnosis-Related Group, or DRG, to which the inpatient stay is assigned, regardless of the actual cost of the services provided. At this time, we do not know the extent to which medical institutions would consider insurers’ payment levels adequate to cover the cost of our products. Failure by hospitals and physicians to receive an amount that they consider to be adequate reimbursement for procedures in which our products are used could deter them from purchasing our products and limit our revenue growth. In addition, pre-determined DRG payments may decline over time, which could deter medical institutions from purchasing our products. If medical institutions are unable to justify the costs of our products, they may refuse to purchase them, which would significantly harm our business. We have limited data regarding the safety and efficacy of the PAS-Port and C-Port and have only recently begun training physicians in the United States to use the C-Port system. Any data that is generated in the future may not be positive or consistent with our existing data, which would affect market acceptance and the rate at which our devices are adopted. The C-Port and PAS-Port systems are innovative products, and our success depends upon their acceptance by the medical community as safe and effective. An important factor upon which the efficacy of the C-Port and PAS-Port will be measured is long-term data regarding the duration of patency, or openness, of the artery or the graft vessel. Equally important will be physicians’ perceptions of the safety of our products. Our technology is relatively new in cardiac bypass surgery, and the results of short-term clinical experience of the C-Port and PAS-Port systems do not necessarily predict long-term clinical benefit. We believe that physicians will compare long-term patency for the C-Port and PAS-Port devices against alternative procedures, such as hand-sewn anastomoses. If the long-term rates of patency do not meet physicians’ expectations, or if physicians find our devices unsafe, the C-Port and PAS-Port systems may not become widely adopted and physicians may recommend alternative treatments for their patients. In addition, we have recently begun training physicians in the United States to use our C-Port system. Any adverse experiences of physicians using the C-Port system, or adverse outcomes to patients, may deter physicians from using our products and negatively impact product adoption. 25 Table of Contents Our C-Port and PAS-Port systems were designed for use with venous grafts. Additionally, while our indications for use of the C-Port system cleared by the FDA refer broadly to grafts, we have studied the use of the C-Port system only with venous grafts and not with arterial grafts. Using the C-Port system with arterial grafts may not yield patency rates or material adverse cardiac event rates comparable to those found in our clinical trials using venous grafts, which could negatively affect market acceptance of our C-Port system. In addition, the clips and staples deployed by our products are made of 316L medical-grade stainless steel, to which some patients are allergic. These allergies may result in adverse reactions that negatively affect the patency of the anastomoses or the healing of the implants and may therefore adversely affect outcomes, particularly when compared to anastomoses performed with other materials, such as sutures. Additionally, in the event a surgeon, during the course of surgery, determines that it is necessary to convert to a hand-sewn anastomosis and to remove an anastomosis created by one of our products, the removal of the implants may result in more damage to the target vessel (such as the aorta or coronary artery) than would typically be encountered during removal of a hand-sewn anastomosis. Moreover, the removal may damage the target vessel to an extent that could further complicate construction of a replacement hand- sewn or automated anastomosis, which could be detrimental to patient outcome. These or other issues, if experienced, could limit physician adoption of our products. Even if the data collected from future clinical studies or clinical experience indicates positive results, each physician’s actual experience with our device outside the clinical study setting may vary. Clinical studies conducted with the C-Port and PAS-Port systems have involved procedures performed by physicians who are technically proficient, high-volume users of the C-Port and PAS-Port systems. Consequently, both short- and long-term results reported in these studies may be significantly more favorable than typical results of practicing physicians, which could negatively impact rates of adoption of the C-Port and PAS-Port systems. Even though our C-Port product has received U.S. regulatory clearance, our PAS-Port system, as well as our future products, may still face future development and regulatory difficulties. Even though the current iteration of the C-Port system has received U.S. regulatory clearance, the FDA may still impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses or marketing of this product or ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-clearance studies. Any of our other products, including the PAS-Port system and future iterations of the C-Port system, may also face these types of restrictions or requirements. In addition, regulatory agencies subject a product, its manufacturer and the manufacturer’s facilities to continual review, regulation and periodic inspections. If a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product, our collaborators or us, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market. Our products will also be subject to ongoing FDA requirements for the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, record-keeping and submission of safety and other post-market information on the product. If our products fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may impose any of the following sanctions: • warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; • customer notifications, repair, replacement, refunds, recall or seizure of our products; • operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • delay in processing marketing applications for new products or modifications to existing products; • withdrawing approvals that have already been granted; and • criminal prosecution. To market any products internationally, we must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA clearance or approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks detailed above regarding FDA clearance or approval in the United States. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure 26 Table of Contents or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval could have the same adverse effects detailed above regarding FDA clearance or approval in the United States, including the risk that our products may not be approved for use under all of the circumstances requested, which could limit the uses of our products and adversely impact potential product sales, and that such clearance or approval may require costly, post-marketing follow-up studies. If we fail to comply with applicable foreign regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. If we do not achieve our projected development goals in the time frames we announce or expect, the commercialization of our product candidates may be delayed and, as a result, our stock price may decline. From time to time, we may estimate and publicly announce the timing anticipated for the accomplishment of various clinical, regulatory and other product development goals, which we sometimes refer to as milestones. These milestones may include an Investigational Device Exemption application to commence our enrollment of patients in our clinical trials, the release of data from our clinical trials, receipt of clearances or approvals from regulatory authorities or other clinical and regulatory events. These estimates are based on a variety of assumptions. The actual timing of these milestones can vary dramatically compared to our estimates, in some cases for reasons beyond our control. If we do not meet these milestones as publicly announced, the commercialization of our products may be delayed and, as a result, our stock price may decline. Our products may never gain any significant degree of market acceptance, and a lack of market acceptance would have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot assure you that our products will gain any significant degree of market acceptance among physicians or patients, even if necessary regulatory and reimbursement approvals are obtained. We believe that recommendations by physicians will be essential for market acceptance of our products; however, we cannot assure you that any recommendations will be obtained. Physicians will not recommend the products unless they conclude, based on clinical data and other factors, that the products represent a safe and acceptable alternative to other available options. In particular, physicians may elect not to recommend using our products in surgical procedures until such time, if ever, as we successfully demonstrate with long-term data that our products result in patency rates comparable to or better than those achieved with hand-sewn anastomoses, and we resolve any technical limitations that may arise. We believe graft patency will be a significant factor for physician recommendation of our products. Although we have not experienced low patency rates in our clinical trials, graft patency determined during the clinical trials conducted by us or other investigators may not be representative of the graft patency actually encountered during commercial use of our products. The surgical skill sets of investigators in our clinical trials may not be representative of the skills of future product users, which could negatively affect graft patency. In addition there may have been a selection bias in the patients, grafts and target vessels used during the clinical trials that positively affected graft patency. The patients included in the clinical trials may not be representative of the general patient population in the United States, which may have resulted in improved graft patency in patients enrolled in the clinical trials. Finally, patient compliance in terms of use of prescribed anticlotting medicines may have been higher in clinical trials than may occur during commercial use, thereby negatively affecting graft patency during commercial use. Widespread use of our products will require the training of numerous physicians, and the time required to complete training could result in a delay or dampening of market acceptance. Even if the safety and efficacy of our products is established, physicians may elect not to use our products for a number of reasons beyond our control, including inadequate or no reimbursement from health care payors, physicians’ reluctance to perform anastomoses with an automated device, the introduction of competing devices by our competitors and pricing for our products. Failure of our products to achieve any significant market acceptance would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 27 Table of Contents Because one customer accounts for substantially all of our product revenue, the loss of this significant customer could cause a substantial decline in our revenue. We derive a significant portion of our product revenue from sales to Century Medical, Inc., or Century, our distributor in Japan. The loss of Century as a customer would cause a decrease in revenue and, consequently, an increase in our net loss. For fiscal 2006 and 2005, sales to Century accounted for approximately 64% and 94%, respectively, of our total product revenue excluding related party product revenue. We expect that Century will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenue in the near term. As a result, if we lose Century as a customer, our revenue and net loss would be adversely affected. In addition, customers that have accounted for significant revenue in the past may not generate revenue in any future period. The failure to obtain new significant customers or additional orders from existing customers will materially affect our operating results. If our competitors have products that are approved in advance of ours, marketed more effectively or demonstrated to be more effective than ours, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated and our business will be harmed. The market for anastomotic solutions and cardiac bypass products is competitive. Competitors include a variety of public and private companies that currently offer or are developing cardiac surgery products generally and automated anastomotic systems specifically that would compete directly with ours. We believe that the primary competitive factors in the market for medical devices used in the treatment of coronary artery disease include: • improved patient outcomes; • access to and acceptance by leading physicians; • product quality and reliability; • ease of use; • device cost-effectiveness; • training and support; • novelty; • physician relationships; and • sales and marketing capabilities. We may be unable to compete successfully on the basis of any one or more of these factors, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A number of different technologies exist or are under development for performing anastomoses, including sutures, mechanical anastomotic devices, suture-based anastomotic devices and shunting devices. Currently, substantially all anastomoses are performed with sutures and, for the foreseeable future, we believe that sutures will continue to be the principal alternative to our anastomotic products. Sutures are far less expensive than our automated anastomotic products, and other anastomotic devices may be less expensive than our own. Surgeons, who have been using sutures for their entire careers, may be reluctant to consider alternative technologies, despite potential advantages. Any resistance to change among practitioners could delay or hinder market acceptance of our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Cardiovascular diseases may also be treated by other methods that do not require anastomoses, including, interventional techniques such as balloon angioplasty with or without the use of stents, pharmaceuticals, atherectomy catheters and lasers. Several of these alternative treatments are widely accepted in the medical community and have a long history of use. In addition, technological advances with other therapies for cardiovascular disease, such as drugs, or future innovations in cardiac surgery techniques could make other methods of treating this disease more effective or lower cost than bypass procedures. For example, the number of bypass procedures in the United States and other major markets has declined in recent years and is expected to decline in 28 Table of Contents the years ahead because competing treatments are, in many cases, far less invasive and provide acceptable clinical outcomes. Many companies working on treatments that do not require anastomoses may have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, marketing, distribution, and technical resources and experience than we have. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, pre-clinical testing, clinical trials, obtaining regulatory clearance or approval and marketing approved products than we do. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. Our competitors may succeed in developing technologies and therapies that are more effective, better tolerated or less costly than any that we are developing or that would render our product candidates obsolete and noncompetitive. Our competitors may succeed in obtaining clearance or approval from the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities for their products sooner than we do for ours. We will also face competition from these third parties in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient enrollment for clinical trials and in acquiring and in-licensing technologies and products complementary to our programs or advantageous to our business. We have limited manufacturing experience and may encounter difficulties in increasing production to provide an adequate supply to customers. To date, our manufacturing activities have consisted primarily of producing limited quantities of our products for use in clinical studies and for sales in Japan and Europe. We do not have experience in manufacturing our products in the commercial quantities that might be required to market our products in the United States. Production in commercial quantities will require us to expand our manufacturing capabilities and to hire and train additional personnel. We may encounter difficulties in increasing our manufacturing capacity and in manufacturing commercial quantities, including: • maintaining product yields; • maintaining quality control and assurance; • providing component and service availability; • maintaining adequate control policies and procedures; and • hiring and retaining qualified personnel. Difficulties encountered in increasing our manufacturing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The manufacture of our products is a complex and costly operation involving a number of separate processes and components. In addition, the current unit costs for our products, based on limited manufacturing volumes, are very high, and it will be necessary to achieve economies of scale to become profitable. Certain of our manufacturing processes are labor intensive, and achieving significant cost reductions will depend in part upon reducing the time required to complete these processes. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve cost reductions in the manufacture of our products and, without these cost reductions, our business may never achieve profitability. We have considered, and will continue to consider as appropriate, manufacturing in-house certain components currently provided by third parties, as well as implementing new production processes. Manufacturing yields or costs may be adversely affected by the transition to in-house production or to new production processes, when and if these efforts are undertaken, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our manufacturing facilities, and those of our suppliers, must comply with applicable regulatory requirements. Failure to obtain regulatory approval of our manufacturing facilities would harm our business and our results of operations. Our manufacturing facilities and processes are subject to periodic inspections and audits by various U.S. federal, U.S. state and foreign regulatory agencies. For example, our facilities have been inspected by State of California regulatory authorities pursuant to granting a California Device Manufacturing License, but not, to 29 Table of Contents date, by the FDA. Additionally, to market products in Europe, we are required to maintain ISO 13485:2003 certification and are subject to periodic surveillance audits. We are currently ISO 13485:2003 certified; however, our failure to maintain necessary regulatory approvals for our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products. Additionally, our manufacturing processes and, in some cases, those of our suppliers are required to comply with FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which covers the procedures and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of our products, including the PAS-Port and C-Port. We are also subject to similar state requirements and licenses. In addition, we must engage in extensive record keeping and reporting and must make available our manufacturing facilities and records for periodic inspections by governmental agencies, including FDA, state authorities and comparable agencies in other countries. If we fail a QSR inspection, our operations could be disrupted and our manufacturing interrupted. Failure to take adequate corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection could result in, among other things, a shut-down of our manufacturing operations, significant fines, suspension of product distribution or other operating restrictions, seizures or recalls of our device and criminal prosecutions, any of which would cause our business to suffer. Furthermore, our key component suppliers may not currently be or may not continue to be in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements, which may result in manufacturing delays for our products and cause our revenue to decline. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into and maintain arrangements with third parties to market and sell our products, our business may be harmed. We are in the beginning stages of building a sales and marketing organization, and we have limited experience as a company in the sales, marketing and distribution of our products. Century is responsible for marketing and commercialization of the PAS-Port system in Japan. To promote our current and future products in the United States and Europe, we must develop our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. Competition for qualified sales personnel is intense. Developing a sales force is expensive and time consuming and could delay any product launch. We may be unable to establish and manage an effective sales force in a timely or cost-effective manner, if at all, and any sales force we do establish may not be capable of generating sufficient demand for our products. To the extent that we enter into arrangements with third parties to perform sales and marketing services, our product revenue may be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our products. We expect to rely on third-party distributors for substantially all of our international sales. If we are unable to establish adequate sales and marketing capabilities, independently or with others, we may not be able to generate significant revenue and may not become profitable. We will need to increase the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing this growth. As of June 30, 2006, we had 56 employees. We will need to continue to expand our managerial, operational, financial and other resources to manage and fund our operations and clinical trials, continue our research and development activities and commercialize our products. It is possible that our management and scientific personnel, systems and facilities currently in place may not be adequate to support this future growth. Our need to effectively manage our operations, growth and programs requires that we continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees. We may be unable to successfully implement these tasks on a larger scale and, accordingly, may not achieve our research, development and commercialization goals. We are dependent upon a number of key suppliers, including single source suppliers, the loss of which would materially harm our business. We use or rely upon sole source suppliers for certain components and services used in manufacturing our products, and we utilize materials and components supplied by third parties with which we do not have any long-term contracts. In recent years, many suppliers have ceased supplying raw materials for use in implantable medical devices. We cannot assure you that materials required by us will not be restricted or that we will be able to obtain sufficient quantities of such materials or services in the future. Moreover, the continued use by us of materials 30 Table of Contents manufactured by third parties could subject us to liability exposure. Because we do not have long-term contracts, none of our suppliers is required to provide us with any guaranteed minimum production levels. We cannot quickly replace suppliers or establish additional new suppliers for some of these components, particularly due to both the complex nature of the manufacturing process used by our suppliers and the time and effort that may be required to obtain FDA clearance or approval or other regulatory approval to use materials from alternative suppliers. Any significant supply interruption or capacity constraints affecting our facilities or those of our suppliers would have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture our products and, therefore, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may in the future be a party to patent litigation and administrative proceedings that could be costly and could interfere with our ability to sell our products. The medical device industry has been characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights, and companies in the industry have used intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage. We may become a party to patent infringement claims and litigation or interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of inventions. The defense and prosecution of these matters are both costly and time consuming. Additionally, we may need to commence proceedings against others to enforce our patents, to protect our trade secrets or know-how or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. These proceedings would result in substantial expense to us and significant diversion of effort by our technical and management personnel. We are aware of patents issued to third parties that contain subject matter related to our technology. We cannot assure you that these or other third parties will not assert that our products and systems infringe the claims in their patents or seek to expand their patent claims to cover aspects of our products and systems. An adverse determination in litigation or interference proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liabilities or require us to seek licenses. In addition, if we are found to willfully infringe third-party patents, we could be required to pay treble damages in addition to other penalties. Although patent and intellectual property disputes in the medical device area have often been settled through licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. We may be unable to obtain necessary licenses on satisfactory terms, if at all. If we do not obtain necessary licenses, we may be required to redesign our products to avoid infringement, and it may not be possible to do so effectively. Adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling the C-Port system, PAS-Port system or any other product we may develop, which would have a significant adverse impact on our business. On March 16, 2006, we received notice that the Board of Patent Appeals and Interferences of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, referred to as the Patent Appeals Board, declared an interference between our U.S. Patent No 6,391,038 (which relates to our C-Port system) and a pending U.S. Patent Application 10/243,543, which patent application has been assigned to Integrated Vascular Interventional Technologies, LLC, or IVIT. An interference is a proceeding within the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention of the subject matter of patent claims. The declaration of interference is made by the Patent Appeals Board only after claims in a patent application are deemed allowable but for the interfering subject matter (in this case our issued patent) and a determination that interfering subject matter exists. The declaration of interference initiates an adversarial proceeding in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office before the Patent Appeals Board. The proceeding will involve issues including but not limited to whether an interference proceeding is appropriate, whether the involved claims of the parties are patentable and which party was first to invent the interfering subject matter. We will vigorously defend our patents against such claim of interference, although there can be no assurance that we will succeed in doing so. There can be no assurance that IVIT’s patent claims, if allowed, will be in their present form, or that our products would not be found to infringe such claims or any other claims that are issued. 31 Table of Contents Intellectual property rights may not provide adequate protection, which may permit third parties to compete against us more effectively. We rely upon patents, trade secret laws and confidentiality agreements to protect our technology and products. Our pending patent applications may not issue as patents or, if issued, may not issue in a form that will be advantageous to us. Any patents we have obtained or will obtain in the future might be invalidated or circumvented by third parties. If any challenges are successful, competitors might be able to market products and use manufacturing processes that are substantially similar to ours. We may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by consultants, vendors or former or current employees, despite the existence generally of confidentiality agreements and other contractual restrictions. Monitoring unauthorized use and disclosure of our intellectual property is difficult, and we do not know whether the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be adequate. In addition, the laws of many foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. To the extent that our intellectual property protection is inadequate, we are exposed to a greater risk of direct competition. In addition, competitors could purchase any of our products and attempt to replicate some or all of the competitive advantages we derive from our development efforts or design around our protected technology. If our intellectual property is not adequately protected against competitors’ products and methods, our competitive position could be adversely affected, as could our business. We also rely upon trade secrets, technical know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. We require our employees, consultants and advisors to execute appropriate confidentiality and assignment-of-inventions agreements with us. These agreements typically provide that all materials and confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the course of the individual’s relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances and that all inventions arising out of the individual’s relationship with us shall be our exclusive property. These agreements may be breached, and in some instances, we may not have an appropriate remedy available for breach of the agreements. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques, reverse engineer our information and techniques, or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technology. Our products face the risk of technological obsolescence, which, if realized, could have a material adverse effect on our business. The medical device industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological change. There can be no assurance that third parties will not succeed in developing or marketing technologies and products that are more effective than ours or that would render our technology and products obsolete or noncompetitive. Additionally, new, less invasive surgical procedures and medications could be developed that replace or reduce the importance of current procedures that use our products. Accordingly, our success will depend in part upon our ability to respond quickly to medical and technological changes through the development and introduction of new products. The relative speed with which we can develop products, complete clinical testing and regulatory clearance or approval processes, train physicians in the use of our products, gain reimbursement acceptance, and supply commercial quantities of the products to the market are expected to be important competitive factors. Product development involves a high degree of risk, and we cannot assure you that our new product development efforts will result in any commercially successful products. We have experienced delays in completing the development and commercialization of our planned products, and there can be no assurance that these delays will not continue or recur in the future. Any delays could result in a loss of market acceptance and market share. We may not be successful in our efforts to expand our product portfolio, and our failure to do so could cause our business and prospects to suffer. We intend to use our knowledge and expertise in anastomotic technologies to discover, develop and commercialize new applications in endoscopic surgery, general vascular surgery or other markets. However, the process of researching and developing anastomotic devices is expensive, time-consuming and unpredictable. Our efforts to create products for these new markets are at a very early stage, and we may never be successful in developing viable products for these markets. Even if our development efforts are successful and we obtain the 32 Table of Contents necessary regulatory and reimbursement approvals, we cannot assure you that these or our other products will gain any significant degree of market acceptance among physicians, patients or health care payors. Accordingly, we anticipate that, for the foreseeable future, we will be substantially dependent upon the successful development and commercialization of anastomotic systems and instruments for cardiac surgery, mainly the PAS-Port system and the C-Port system. Failure by us to successfully develop and commercialize these systems for any reason, including failure to overcome regulatory hurdles or inability to gain any significant degree of market acceptance, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject, directly or indirectly, to federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations and, if we are unable to fully comply with such laws, could face substantial penalties. Our operations may be directly or indirectly affected by various broad state and federal healthcare fraud and abuse laws, including the federal healthcare program Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibit any person from knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing or arranging for an item or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Foreign sales of our products are also subject to similar fraud and abuse laws, including application of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. If our operations, including any consulting arrangements we may enter into with physicians who use our products, are found to be in violation of these laws, we or our officers may be subject to civil or criminal penalties, including large monetary penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment and exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid program participation. If enforcement action were to occur, our business and financial condition would be harmed. We could be exposed to significant product liability claims, which could be time consuming and costly to defend, divert management attention, and adversely impact our ability to obtain and maintain insurance coverage. The expense and potential unavailability of insurance coverage for our company or our customers could adversely affect our ability to sell our products, which would adversely affect our business. The testing, manufacture, marketing, and sale of our products involve an inherent risk that product liability claims will be asserted against us. Additionally, we are currently training physicians in the United States on the use of our C-Port system. During training, patients may be harmed, which could also lead to product liability claims. Product liability claims or other claims related to our products, or their off-label use, regardless of their merits or outcomes, could harm our reputation in the industry, reduce our product sales, lead to significant legal fees, and result in the diversion of management’s attention from managing our business. As of August 2006, we were not aware of any existing product liability claims. Although we maintain product liability insurance in the amount of $5,000,000, we may not have sufficient insurance coverage to fully cover the costs of any claim or any ultimate damages we might be required to pay. We may not be able to obtain insurance in amounts or scope sufficient to provide us with adequate coverage against all potential liabilities. Any product liability claims brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our product liability insurance rates or prevent us from securing continuing coverage. Product liability claims in excess of our insurance coverage would be paid out of cash reserves, harming our financial condition and adversely affecting our financial condition and operating results. Some of our customers and prospective customers may have difficulty in procuring or maintaining liability insurance to cover their operations and use of the C-Port or PAS-Port systems. Medical malpractice carriers are withdrawing coverage in certain states or substantially increasing premiums. If this trend continues or worsens, our customers may discontinue using the C-Port or PAS-Port systems and potential customers may opt against purchasing the C-Port or PAS-Port systems due to the cost or inability to procure insurance coverage. 33 Table of Contents We sell our systems internationally and are subject to various risks relating to these international activities, which could adversely affect our revenue. The majority of our product revenue in fiscal 2006 and 2005 was attributable to sales in international markets. By doing business in international markets, we are exposed to risks separate and distinct from those we face in our domestic operations. Our international business may be adversely affected by changing economic conditions in foreign countries. Because most of our sales are currently denominated in U.S. dollars, if the value of the U.S. dollar increases relative to foreign currencies, our products could become more costly to the international customer and, therefore, less competitive in international markets, which could affect our results of operations. Engaging in international business inherently involves a number of other difficulties and risks, including: • export restrictions and controls relating to technology; • the availability and level of reimbursement within prevailing foreign healthcare payment systems; • pricing pressure that we may experience internationally; • required compliance with existing and changing foreign regulatory requirements and laws; • laws and business practices favoring local companies; • longer payment cycles; • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • political and economic instability; • potentially adverse tax consequences, tariffs and other trade barriers; • international terrorism and anti-American sentiment; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; and • difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights. Our exposure to each of these risks may increase our costs, impair our ability to market and sell our products and require significant management attention. We cannot assure you that one or more of these factors will not harm our business. We are dependent upon key personnel, loss of any of which could have a material adverse affect on our business. Our future business and operating results depend significantly on the continued contributions of our key technical personnel and senior management, including those of our co-founder, CEO and President, Bernard Hausen, M.D., Ph.D. These services and individuals would be difficult or impossible to replace and none of these individuals is subject to a post-employment non-competition agreement. While we are subject to certain severance obligations to Dr. Hausen, either he or we may terminate his employment at any time and for any lawful reason or for no reason. Our business and future operating results also depend significantly on our ability to attract and retain qualified management, manufacturing, technical, marketing, sales and support personnel for our operations. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. Additionally, although we have key-person life insurance in the amount of $3.0 million on the life of Dr. Hausen, we cannot assure you that this amount would fully compensate us for the loss of Dr. Hausen’s services. The loss of key employees, the failure of any key employee to perform or our inability to attract and retain skilled employees, as needed, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are currently conducted at a single location that may be at risk from earthquakes, terror attacks or other disasters. We currently conduct all of our manufacturing, development and management activities at a single location in Redwood City, California, near known earthquake fault zones. We have taken precautions to safeguard our 34 Table of Contents facilities, including insurance, health and safety protocols, and off-site storage of computer data. However, any future natural disaster, such as an earthquake, or a terrorist attack, could cause substantial delays in our operations, damage or destroy our equipment or inventory and cause us to incur additional expenses. A disaster could seriously harm our business and results of operations. Our insurance does not cover earthquakes and floods and may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case. If we use hazardous materials in a manner that causes injury, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the use of hazardous materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials. If one of our employees were accidentally injured from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials, the medical costs related to his or her treatment would be covered by our workers’ compensation insurance policy. However, we do not carry specific hazardous waste insurance coverage, and our property and casualty and general liability insurance policies specifically exclude coverage for damages and fines arising from hazardous waste exposure or contamination. Accordingly, in the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines in an amount exceeding our resources, and our clinical trials or regulatory clearances or approvals could be suspended. We may be subject to fines, penalties or injunctions if we are determined to be promoting the use of our products for unapproved or “off-label” uses. If our products receive FDA clearance or approval, our promotional materials and training methods regarding physicians will need to comply with FDA and other applicable laws and regulations. If the FDA determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an unapproved use, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. In that event, our reputation could be damaged and adoption of the products would be impaired. Risks Related to Our Finances and Capital Requirements We have a history of net losses, which we expect to continue for the foreseeable future, and we are unable to predict the extent of future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all. We have incurred net losses since our inception in October 1997. As of June 30, 2006, our accumulated deficit was approximately $60.4 million. We expect to incur substantial additional losses until we can achieve significant commercial sales of our products, which depend upon a number of factors, including the successful commercial launch of our C-Port system in the United States and receipt of regulatory clearance or approval and market adoption of our additional products in the United States. We commenced commercial sales of the C-Port system in Europe in 2004 and in the United States in 2006 and the PAS-Port system in Japan in 2004, and our short commercialization experience makes it difficult for us to predict future performance. Our failure to accurately predict financial performance may lead to volatility in our stock price. Our cost of product revenue was 203% and 142% of our net product revenue for fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively. We expect to continue to have high costs of product revenue for the foreseeable future. In addition, we expect that our operating expenses will increase as we expand our commercialization efforts and devote resources to our sales and marketing, as well as conduct other research and development activities. If, over the long term, we are unable to reduce our cost of producing goods and expenses relative to our net revenue, we may not achieve profitability even if we are able to generate significant revenue from sales of the C-Port and PAS-Port systems. Our failure to achieve and sustain profitability would negatively impact the market price of our common stock. 35 Table of Contents We currently lack a significant source of product revenue, and prior agreements with Guidant, which represented 75% of our revenue in fiscal year 2004 and 65% of our revenue in fiscal year 2005, have been terminated. We may not become or remain profitable. Our ability to become and remain profitable depends upon our ability to generate product revenue. Our ability to generate significant continuing revenue depends upon a number of factors, including: • achievement of U.S. regulatory clearance or approval for our additional products; • successful completion of ongoing clinical trials for our products; and • successful sales, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of our products. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005, sales of our products and development activities generated only $2.1 million of revenue, 65% of which was from Guidant. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004, sales of our products and development activities generated only $0.8 million of revenue, 75% of which was from Guidant. Our distribution and development agreements with Guidant have terminated. We do not expect to enter into future development contracts with Guidant. Accordingly, we do not anticipate any future revenue from development contracts with Guidant. As Guidant outsourced the manufacture of the aortic cutter to a contract manufacturing company, we ceased manufacturing the aortic cutter. While we receive a modest royalty from Guidant’s sales of the aortic cutter, we do not anticipate any significant future revenue from this royalty. We received $24,000 in royalty revenue from Guidant in fiscal 2006. We do not anticipate that we will generate significant product revenue for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to generate significant product revenue, we will not become or remain profitable, and we may be unable to continue our operations. We will need substantial additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our research and development programs or commercialization efforts. Our development efforts have consumed substantial capital to date. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, along with cash that we expect to generate from operations, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures through at least the next 18 months. Because we do not anticipate that we will generate significant product revenue for the foreseeable future, if at all, we will need to raise substantial additional capital to finance our operations in the future. Our future liquidity and capital requirements will depend upon, and could increase significantly as a result of, numerous factors, including: • market acceptance and adoption of our products; • our revenue growth; • costs associated with our sales and marketing initiatives and manufacturing activities; • costs of obtaining and maintaining FDA and other regulatory clearances and approvals for our products; • securing, maintaining and enforcing intellectual property rights; • the costs of developing marketing and distribution capabilities; • the extent of our ongoing research and development programs; • the progress of clinical trials; and • effects of competing technological and market developments. Until we can generate significant continuing revenue, if ever, we expect to satisfy our future cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements, as well as through interest income earned on cash balances. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Any corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements may require us to 36 Table of Contents relinquish valuable rights. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate our commercialization efforts or one or more of our research and development programs. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow through increased revenue or raising additional capital, then we may not be able to meet our substantial debt obligations that become due in 2008. As of June 30, 2006, we had an aggregate principal amount of approximately $13.3 million in long-term notes payable to Century and Guidant Investment Corporation that mature in 2008. The accrued interest under the Guidant note due at maturity in 2008 will be $4.2 million, of which $2.3 million was recorded as of June 30, 2006. This substantial indebtedness has and will continue to impact us by: • making it more difficult to obtain additional financing; and • constraining our ability to react quickly in an unfavorable economic climate. Currently we are not generating positive cash flow. Adverse occurrences related to our product commercialization, development and regulatory efforts would adversely impact our ability to meet our obligations to repay the principal amounts on our notes when due in 2008. If we are unable to satisfy our debt service requirements, we may not be able to continue our operations. We may not generate sufficient cash from operations to repay our notes or satisfy any additional debt obligations when they become due and may have to raise additional financing from the sale of equity or debt securities, enter into commercial transactions or otherwise restructure our debt obligations. There can be no assurance that any such financing or restructuring will be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to restructure our obligations, we may be forced to seek protection under applicable bankruptcy laws. Any restructuring or bankruptcy could materially impair the value of our common stock. Existing creditors have rights to our assets that are senior to our stockholders. Existing arrangements with our current lenders, Century and Guidant Investment Corporation, as well as future arrangements with other creditors, allow or may allow these creditors to liquidate our assets, which may include our intellectual property rights, if we are in default or breach of our debt obligations for a continued period of time. The proceeds of any sale or liquidation of our assets under these circumstances would be applied first to any of our debt obligations and would have priority over any of our capital stock, including any liquidation preference of the preferred stock. After satisfaction of our debt obligations, we may have little or no proceeds left under these circumstances to distribute to the holders of our capital stock. Our quarterly operating results and stock price may fluctuate significantly. We expect our operating results to be subject to quarterly fluctuations. The revenue we generate, if any, and our operating results will be affected by numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • the rate of physician adoption of our products; • the results of clinical trials related to our products; • the introduction by us or our competitors, and market acceptance of, new products; • the results of regulatory and reimbursement actions; • the timing of orders by distributors or customers; • the expenditures incurred in the research and development of new products; and • competitive pricing. Quarterly fluctuations in our operating results may, in turn, cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. 37 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may continue to be volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline. We sold shares of common stock in our IPO in February 2006 at a price of $10.00 per share, and our stock has subsequently traded at per share prices as low as $4.50 per share as of August 31, 2006. An active and liquid trading market for our common stock may not develop or be sustained. Factors that could cause volatility in the market price of our common stock include, but are not limited to: • market acceptance and adoption of our products; • regulatory clearance or approvals of our products; • volume and timing of orders for our products; • changes in earnings estimates, investors’ perceptions, recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts’ earning estimates; • quarterly variations in our or our competitors’ results of operations; • general market conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors; • the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • announcements related to patents issued to us or our competitors and to litigation; and • developments in our industry. In addition, the stock prices of many companies in the medical device industry have experienced wide fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. These factors may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The ownership of our common stock is highly concentrated, and your interests may conflict with the interests of our existing stockholders. Our executive officers and directors and their affiliates, together with our current significant stockholders, beneficially owned approximately 41.2% of our outstanding common stock as of June 30, 2006. Accordingly, these stockholders, acting as a group, have significant influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval and continue to have significant influence over our operations. The interests of these stockholders may be different than the interests of other stockholders on these matters. This concentration of ownership could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could reduce the price of our common stock. Evolving regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure will result in additional expenses and continuing uncertainty. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and Nasdaq National Market rules are creating uncertainty for public companies. We are presently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional compliance costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by courts and regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. Maintaining appropriate standards of corporate governance and public disclosure will result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In addition, if we fail to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business and reputation may be harmed. 38 Table of Contents If we sell shares of our common stock in future financings, common stockholders may experience immediate dilution and, as a result, our stock price may decrease. We may from time to time issue additional shares of capital stock at a discount from the current trading price of our common stock. As a result, our common stockholders would experience immediate dilution upon the purchase of any shares of our common stock sold at such discount. In addition, as opportunities present themselves, we may enter into financing or similar arrangements in the future, including the issuance of debt securities, preferred stock or common stock. If we issue common stock or securities convertible into common stock, our common stockholders could experience dilution and our stock price may decline. A significant portion of our total outstanding shares have been restricted from immediate resale subsequent to our initial public offering in February 2006, but these shares are now tradable subject to Rule 144. If there are substantial sales of our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the price of our common stock. As of September 1, 2006, a total of 9,815,693 shares of common stock were outstanding. Up to 4,033,492 of those shares are held by affiliates and may only be sold in compliance with the volume limitations of Rule 144. These volume limitations restrict the number of shares that may be sold by an affiliate in any three-month period to the greater of 1% of the number of shares then outstanding, which equals approximately 981,569, or the average weekly trading volume of our common stock during the four calendar weeks preceding the filing of a notice on Form 144 with respect to the sale. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. Our future operating results may be below securities analysts’ or investors’ expectations, which could cause our stock price to decline. The revenue and income potential of our products and our business model are unproven, and we may be unable to generate significant revenue or grow at the rate expected by securities analysts or investors. In addition, our costs may be higher than we, securities analysts or investors expect. If we fail to generate sufficient revenue or our costs are higher than we expect, our results of operations will suffer, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Our results of operations will depend upon numerous factors, including: • FDA or other regulatory clearance or approval of our PAS-Port system, future iterations of our C-Port system or our other products; • demand for our products; • the performance of third-party contract manufacturers and component suppliers; • our ability to develop sales and marketing capabilities; • our ability to develop, introduce and market new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis; and • our ability to obtain and protect proprietary rights. Our operating results in any particular period may not be a reliable indication of our future performance. In some future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, the price of our common stock will likely decline. Anti-takeover defenses that we have in place could prevent or frustrate attempts to change our direction or management. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and applicable provisions of Delaware law may make it more difficult for or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions: • limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders; 39 Table of Contents • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of our directors, which would otherwise permit less than a majority of stockholders to elect directors; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and • provide our board of directors with the ability to designate the terms of and issue a new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally prohibits us from engaging in any business combination with certain persons who own 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or any of our associates or affiliates who at any time in the past three years have owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our management team and may deprive you of the opportunity to sell your shares to potential acquirors at a premium over prevailing prices. This potential inability to obtain a control premium could reduce the price of our common stock. We may become involved in securities class action litigation that could divert management’s attention and harm our business. The stock market in general, the Nasdaq National Market and the market for medical device companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, the market prices of securities of medical device companies have been particularly volatile. These broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation often is expensive and diverts management’s attention and resources, which could materially harm our financial condition and results of operations. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date, and we currently intend to return our future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 