Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISK FACTORS The lack of seasoning of our loan portfolio makes it difficult to assess the adequacy of our loan loss reserves accurately and we may have higher credit losses than we have reserved for in our allowance for loan losses. We attempt to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for potential losses in our loan portfolio. We periodically determine the amount of the allowance based on the consideration of several factors, including: · an ongoing review of the quality, mix and size of our overall loan portfolio; · our historical loan loss experience; · evaluation of economic conditions; · regular reviews of loan delinquencies and loan portfolio quality; and · the amount and quality of collateral, including guarantees, securing the loans. However, there is no precise method of predicting credit losses, since any estimate of loan losses is necessarily subjective and the accuracy depends on the outcome of future events. In addition, due to our rapid growth over the past several years and our limited operating history, a large portion of the loans in our loan portfolio was originated recently. In general, loans do not begin to show signs of credit deterioration or default until they have been outstanding for some period of time, a process referred to as “seasoning.” As a result, a portfolio of older loans will usually perform more predictably than a newer portfolio. Because of the unpredictability in our relatively new loan portfolio, our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate. As of December 31, 2008, we had 25 loans on nonaccrual status totaling approximately $11.5 million, and our allowance for loan loss was $7.6 million. In addition, we have charged-off a total of approximately $1.5 million in loans since our inception. At December 31, 2008, approximately 66.0% of our loan portfolio was composed of construction, commercial mortgage and commercial and industrial loans. Repayment of such loans is generally considered more subject to market risk than residential mortgage loans. Industry experience shows that a portion of our loans will become delinquent and a portion of loans will require partial or full charge-off. Regardless of the underwriting criteria utilized, our credit losses could exceed our allowance for loan losses, as a result of various factors beyond our control, including among other things, changes in market conditions affecting the value of loan collateral and problems affecting the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. We are exposed to higher credit risk by commercial real estate, commercial and industrial, and construction lending. Commercial real estate, commercial and industrial and construction lending usually involves higher credit risks than that of single-family residential lending. As of December 31, 2008, commercial real estate, commercial and industrial, residential construction and commercial construction accounted for approximately 25.1%, 6.0%, 18.3% and 16.6%, of our total loan portfolio, respectively. These types of loans involve larger loan balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers. Commercial real estate loans may be affected to a greater extent than residential loans by adverse conditions in real estate markets or the economy because commercial real estate borrowers’ ability to repay their loans depends on successful development of their properties, in addition to the factors affecting residential real estate borrowers. These loans also involve greater risk because they generally are not fully amortizing over the loan period, but have a balloon payment due at maturity. A borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or sell the underlying property in a timely manner. Commercial and industrial loans are typically based on the borrowers’ ability to repay the loans from the cash flow of their businesses. These loans may involve greater risk because the availability of funds to repay each loan depends substantially on the success of the business itself. In addition, the collateral securing the loans have the following characteristics: (i) depreciate over time, (ii) difficult to appraise and liquidate, and (iii) fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. 23 Risk of loss on a construction loan depends largely upon whether our initial estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction equals or exceeds the cost of the property construction (including interest) and the availability of permanent take-out financing. During the construction phase, a number of factors can result in delays and cost overruns. If estimates of value are inaccurate or if actual construction costs exceed estimates, the value of the property securing the loan may be insufficient to ensure full repayment when completed through a permanent loan or by seizure of collateral. Commercial real estate, commercial and industrial, and construction loans are more susceptible to a risk of loss during a downturn in the business cycle. Our underwriting, review and monitoring cannot eliminate all of the risks related to these loans. As of December 31, 2008, our outstanding commercial real estate loans were equal to 386% of our total capital. The banking regulators are giving commercial real estate lending greater scrutiny, and may require banks with higher levels of commercial real estate loans to implement improved underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly higher levels of allowances for losses and capital levels as a result of commercial real estate lending growth and exposures. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, and events that negatively impact the real estate market could hurt our business. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 58.1% of our loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. A weakening of the real estate market in our primary market area could result in an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our profitability and asset quality. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and shareholder’s equity could be adversely affected. Acts of nature, including hurricanes, tornados, earthquakes, fires and floods, which may cause uninsured damage and other loss of value to real estate that secures these loans, may also negatively impact our financial condition. Our decisions regarding credit risk and reserves for loan losses may materially and adversely affect our business. Making loans and other extensions of credit is an essential element of our business. Although we seek to mitigate risks inherent in lending by adhering to specific underwriting practices, our loans and other extensions of credit may not be repaid. The risk of nonpayment is affected by a number of factors, including: · the duration of the credit; · the credit profile of a particular customer; · the changes in economic and industry conditions; and · in the case of a collateralized loan, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. While we generally underwrite the loans in our portfolio in accordance with our own internal underwriting guidelines and regulatory supervisory guidelines, in certain circumstances we have made loans which exceed either our internal underwriting guidelines, supervisory guidelines, or both. As of December 31, 2008, approximately $44.6 million of our loans, or 77.6% of our bank’s capital, had loan-to-value ratios that exceeded regulatory supervisory guidelines, of which 33 loans totaling approximately $13.2 million had loan-to-value ratios of 100% or more. In addition, supervisory limits on commercial loan to value exceptions are set at 30% of a bank’s capital. At December 31, 2008, $26.3 million of our commercial loans, or 45.7% of our bank’s capital, exceeded the supervisory loan to value ratio. The number of loans in our portfolio with loan-to-value ratios in excess of supervisory guidelines, our internal guidelines, or both could increase the risk of delinquencies and defaults in our portfolio. 24 Recent negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets may adversely affect our operations and results. Negative developments in the latter half of 2007 and during 2008 in the global credit and securitization markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing during 2009. As a result of this “credit crunch,” commercial as well as consumer loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions and the competition for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. As a result, significant new federal laws and regulations relating to financial institutions, including, without limitation, the EESA and the U.S. Treasury Department’s Capital Purchase Program, have been adopted. Furthermore, the potential exists for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. We can provide no assurance regarding the manner in which any new laws and regulations will affect us. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. banking system. The recently enacted EESA authorizes the Treasury to purchase from financial institutions and their holding companies up to $700 billion in mortgage loans, mortgage-related securities and certain other financial instruments, including debt and equity securities issued by financial institutions and their holding companies, under a troubled asset relief program, or “TARP.” The purpose of TARP is to restore confidence and stability to the U.S. banking system and to encourage financial institutions to increase their lending to customers and to each other. The Treasury has allocated $250 billion towards the TARP Capital Purchase Program. Under the TARP Capital Purchase Program, Treasury is purchasing equity securities from participating institutions. On December 19, 2008, we entered into the CPP Purchase Agreement with the Treasury providing for our issuance of the Series T Preferred Stock and the CPP Warrant to Treasury. In addition, the FDIC created the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (“TGLP”) as part of a larger government effort to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in the nation’s banking system. The TLGP has two components. First, the TLGP includes the Transaction Account Guarantee Program (“TAGP”), which provides unlimited deposit insurance coverage through December 31, 2009 for noninterest-bearing transaction accounts (typically business checking accounts) and certain funds swept into noninterest-bearing savings accounts. Institutions participating in the TLGP pay a 10 basis points fee (annualized) on the balance of each covered account in excess of $250,000, while the extra deposit insurance is in place. Second, the TLGP includes the Debt Guarantee Program (“DGP”), under which the FDIC guarantees certain senior unsecured debt of FDIC-insured institutions and their holding companies. The unsecured debt must be issued on or after October 14, 2008 and not later than June 30, 2009, and the guarantee is effective through the earlier of the maturity date or June 30, 2012. The DGP coverage limit is generally 125% of the eligible entity’s eligible debt outstanding on September 30, 2008 and scheduled to mature on or before June 30, 2009 or, for certain insured institutions, 2% of their liabilities as of September 30, 2008. Depending on the term of the debt maturity, the nonrefundable DGP fee ranges from 50 to 100 basis points (annualized) for covered debt outstanding until the earlier of maturity or June 30, 2012. The TAGP and DGP are in effect for all eligible entities, unless the entity opted out on or before December 5, 2008. We have not opted out of either program. On February 17, 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (the “Recovery Act”) was signed into law in an effort to, among other things, create jobs and stimulate growth in the United States economy. The Recovery Act specifies appropriations of approximately $787 billion for a wide range of Federal programs and will increase or extend certain benefits payable under the Medicaid, unemployment compensation, and nutrition 25 assistance programs. The Recovery Act also reduces individual and corporate income tax collections and makes a variety of other changes to tax laws. The Recovery Act also imposes certain limitations on compensation paid by TARP participants, which includes programs under TARP such as the CPP in which we participate. There can be no assurance that these government actions will achieve their purpose. The failure of the financial markets to stabilize, or a continuation or worsening of the current financial market conditions, could have a material adverse affect on our business, our financial condition, the financial condition of our customers, our common stock trading price, as well as our ability to access credit. It could also result in declines in our investment portfolio which could be “other-than-temporary impairments.” The securities purchase agreement between us and the Treasury limits our ability to pay dividends on and repurchase our common stock. The securities purchase agreement between us and the Treasury provides that prior to December 19, 2011, unless we have redeemed the Series T Preferred Stock or the Treasury has transferred the Series T Preferred Stock to a third party, the consent of the Treasury will be required for us to (1) declare or pay any dividend or make any distribution on our common stock, or (2) redeem, purchase or acquire any shares of our common stock or other equity or capital securities, other than in connection with benefit plans consistent with past practice and certain other circumstances specified in the purchase agreement. These restrictions, together with the potentially dilutive impact of the warrant described in the next risk factor, could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. The warrant we issued to the Treasury may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. The ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the warrant we issued to the Treasury in conjunction with the sale to the Treasury of the Series T Preferred Stock is exercised. The shares of common stock underlying the warrant represent approximately 11.8% of the shares of our common stock outstanding as of March 16, 2009 (including the shares issuable upon exercise of the warrant in total shares outstanding). Although Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon exercise of the warrant, a transferee of any portion of the warrant or of any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the warrant is not bound by this restriction. Because of our participation in the Treasury Department’s Capital Purchase Program, we are subject to several restrictions including restrictions on compensation paid to our executives. Pursuant to the terms of the CPP Purchase Agreement between us and the Treasury, we adopted certain standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which the Treasury holds the equity issued pursuant to the CPP Purchase Agreement, including the common stock which may be issued pursuant to the CPP Warrant. These standards generally apply to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the three next most highly compensated senior executive officers. The standards include (1) ensuring that incentive compensation for senior executives does not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of the financial institution; (2) required clawback of any bonus or incentive compensation paid to a senior executive based on statements of earnings, gains or other criteria that are later proven to be materially inaccurate; (3) prohibition on making golden parachute payments to senior executives; and (4) agreement not to deduct for tax purposes executive compensation in excess of $500,000 for each senior executive. In particular, the change to the deductibility limit on executive compensation will likely increase the overall cost of our compensation programs in future periods and may make it more difficult to attract suitable candidates to serve as executive officers. Legislation or regulatory changes could cause us to seek to repurchase the preferred stock and warrants that we sold to the U.S. Treasury pursuant to the Capital Purchase Program. Legislation that has been adopted after we closed on our sale of Series T Preferred Stock and warrants to the Treasury for $14.4 million pursuant to the CPP on December 19, 2008, or any legislation or regulations that may be implemented in the future, may have a material impact on the terms of our CPP transaction with the Treasury. If we determine that any such legislation or any regulations, in whole or in part, alter the terms of our CPP transaction with the Treasury in ways that we believe are adverse to our ability to effectively manage our business, then it is 26 possible that we may seek to unwind, in whole or in part, the CPP transaction by repurchasing some or all of the preferred stock and warrants that we sold to the Treasury pursuant to the CPP. If we were to repurchase all or a portion of such preferred stock or warrants, then our capital levels could be materially reduced. Our continued operations and future growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. To support our continued operations, including any additional growth, we may need to raise additional capital. In addition, we intend to redeem the Series T Preferred Stock that we issued to the Treasury under the CPP before the dividends on the Series T Preferred Stock increase from 5% per annum to 9% per annum in 2014, as we may need to raise additional capital to do so. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend in part on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and our financial performance. Accordingly, we may be unable to raise additional capital, if and when needed, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to continue our current operations or further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. In addition, if we decide to raise additional equity capital, your interest could be diluted. A prolonged economic downturn, especially one affecting coastal South Carolina, could reduce our customer base, our level of deposits and demand for financial products such as loans. We are in uncertain economic times, including uncertainty with respect to financial markets that have been volatile as a result of sub-prime mortgage related and other matters. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in the Charleston, Myrtle Beach and Hilton Head market areas. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may not succeed. A prolonged economic downturn would likely contribute to the deterioration of the credit quality of our loan portfolio and reduce our level of customer deposits, which in turn would hurt our business. Interest received on loans represented approximately 78.8% of our interest income for the year-to-date period ended December 31, 2008. If the current economic downturn in the economy as a whole, or in the Charleston, Myrtle Beach or Hilton Head markets continues for a prolonged period, borrowers may be less likely to repay their loans as scheduled or at all. Moreover, the value of real estate or other collateral that may secure our loans could be adversely affected. Unlike many larger institutions, we are not able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies and geographic locations. A prolonged economic downturn could, therefore, result in losses that could materially and adversely affect our business. A large percentage of the loans in our portfolio currently include exceptions to our loan policies and supervisory guidelines. All of the loans that we make are subject to written loan policies adopted by our board of directors and to supervisory guidelines imposed by our regulators. Our loan policies are designed to reduce the risks associated with the loans that we make by requiring our loan officers to take certain steps that vary depending on the type and amount of the loan, prior to closing a loan. These steps include, among other things, making sure the proper liens are documented and perfected on property securing a loan, and requiring proof of adequate insurance coverage on property securing loans. Loans that do not fully comply with our loan policies are known as “exceptions.” We categorize exceptions as policy exceptions, financial statement exceptions and collateral exceptions. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 12.8% of the loans in our portfolio included collateral exceptions to our loan policies, which exceeds the 10% suggested by our regulators. As a result of these exceptions, such loans may have a higher risk of loss than the other loans in our portfolio that fully comply with our loan policies. In addition, we may be subject to regulatory action by federal or state banking authorities if they believe the number of exceptions in our loan portfolio represents an unsafe banking practice. Although we have taken steps to reduce the number of exceptions in our loan portfolio, such as the hiring a chief credit officer and a chief risk officer, we may not be successful in reducing the number of exceptions in our loan portfolio. 27 Changes in interest rates may reduce our profitability. Our profitability depends in large part on our net interest income, which is the difference between interest income from interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and other borrowings. Approximately 56.7% of our loans were variable rate loans at December 31, 2008, which means that our interest income will generally decrease in lower interest rate environments and rise in higher interest rate environments. Our net interest income will be adversely affected if market interest rates change such that the interest we earn on loans and investments decreases faster than the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings. Many factors cause changes in interest rates, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. While we intend to manage the effects of changes in interest rates by adjusting the terms, including the maturities and pricing of our assets and liabilities, our efforts may not be effective and our financial condition and results of operations could suffer. We have grown rapidly and do not expect to sustain this rate of growth for future periods. We have grown rapidly since opening Tidelands Bank in October 2003. However, we do not expect to sustain this rate of growth and may not even grow our business at all. Because of our relatively small size and short operating history, it will be difficult for us to generate similar asset growth rates and consequently our historical results of operations are not necessarily indicative of our future operations. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations and competition, may also impede our ability to expand our market presence. Our current strategic objectives are to manage loan growth, manage portfolio risk and lower our overall funding costs, primarily through the growth of retail deposits. We are dependent on key individuals and our continued success depends on our ability to identify and retain individuals with experience and relationships in our markets. The loss of one or more of these key individuals could curtail our growth and adversely affect our prospects. Robert E. Coffee, Jr., our president and chief executive officer, has extensive and long-standing ties within our market area and substantial experience with our operations which has contributed significantly to our growth. If we lose the services of Mr. Coffee, he would be difficult to replace and our business and development could be materially and adversely affected. To succeed in our markets, we must identify and retain experienced key management members with local expertise and relationships in these markets. We expect that competition for qualified management in our markets will be intense and that there will be a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of and experience in the community banking industry in these markets. In addition, the process of identifying and recruiting individuals with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategy requires both management and financial resources and is often lengthy. Our inability to identify, recruit and retain talented personnel to manage our offices effectively would limit our growth and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of the services of several such key personnel could adversely affect our growth strategy and prospects to the extent we are unable to replace such personnel. We face strong competition for customers, which could prevent us from obtaining customers or may cause us to pay higher interest rates to attract customer deposits. The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience competition in our market from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other mutual funds, as well as super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions, such as BB&T, Bank of America, Wachovia and Carolina First 28 Bank. These institutions offer some services, such as extensive and established branch networks and trust services that we do not provide. We also compete with local community banks in our market. There is a risk that we will not be able to compete successfully with other financial institutions in our market, and that we may have to pay higher interest rates to attract deposits, accept lower yields on loans to attract loans and pay higher wages for new employees, resulting in reduced profitability. In addition, competitors that are not depository institutions are generally not subject to the extensive regulations that apply to us. We may not be able to compete with our larger competitors for larger customers because our lending limits are lower than theirs. We are limited in the amount we can loan a single borrower by the amount of the bank’s capital. Our legal lending limit is 15% of the bank’s capital and surplus, or $8.6 million at December 31, 2008. Our internal lending limit was $5.2 million at December 31, 2008. Our legal lending limit is significantly less than the limit for our larger competitors and may affect our ability to seek relationships with larger businesses in our market area. We have been able to sell participations in our larger loans to other financial institutions, which has allowed us to meet the lending needs of our customers requiring extensions of credit in excess of these limits; however, in the current economic environment, it has been difficult to sell participations to other financial institutions. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities. This regulation is for the protection of the bank’s depositors and not for its shareholders. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by the South Carolina Board of Financial Institutions, the FDIC and the Federal Reserve Board. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We must also meet regulatory capital requirements. If we fail to meet these capital and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to remain “well capitalized” for regulatory purposes could affect customer confidence, our ability to grow, our cost of funds and FDIC insurance, our ability to pay dividends on common stock and our ability to make acquisitions. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. For example, new legislation or regulation could limit the manner in which we may conduct our business, including our ability to obtain financing, attract deposits and make loans. Many of these regulations are intended to protect depositors, the public and the FDIC, not shareholders. In addition, the burden imposed by these regulations may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors who are less regulated. The laws, regulations, interpretations and enforcement policies that apply to us have been subject to significant change in recent years, sometimes retroactively applied, and may change significantly in the future. Our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. See “Supervision and Regulation.” We are exposed to changes in the regulation of financial services companies. Proposals for further regulation of the financial services industry are continually being introduced in the Congress of the United States of America and the General Assembly of the State of South Carolina. The agencies regulating the financial services industry also periodically adopt changes to their regulations. On September 7, 2008, the U.S. Treasury Department announced that Fannie Mae (along with Freddie Mac) has been placed into conservatorship under the control of the newly created Federal Housing Finance Agency. On October 3, 2008, EESA was signed into law, and on October 14, 2008 the U.S. Treasury Department announced its Capital Purchase Program under EESA. It is possible that additional legislative proposals may be adopted or regulatory changes may be made that would have an adverse effect on our business. See “Risk Factors — We are subject to extensive regulation that could restrict our activities” above. 29 We will face risks with respect to future expansion and acquisitions or mergers. Although we do not have any current plans to do so, we may seek to acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions. We may also expand into new markets or lines of business or offer new products or services. These activities would involve a number of risks, including: · the time and expense associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners; · using inaccurate estimates and judgments to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution or assets; · diluting our existing shareholders in an acquisition; · the time and expense associated with evaluating new markets for expansion, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices, as there may be a substantial time lag between these activities before we generate sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; · taking a significant amount of time negotiating a transaction or working on expansion plans, resulting in management’s attention being diverted from the operation of our existing business; · the time and expense associated with integrating the operations and personnel of the combined businesses; · creating an adverse short-term effect on our results of operations; and · losing key employees and customers as a result of an acquisition that is poorly received. We have never acquired another institution before, so we lack experience in handling any of these risks. There is also a risk that any expansion effort will not be successful. The accuracy of our financial statements and related disclosures could be affected because we are exposed to conditions or assumptions different from the judgments, assumptions or estimates used in our critical accounting policies. The preparation of financial statements and related disclosure in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) requires us to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our critical accounting policies, included in this Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, describe those significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements that are considered “critical” by us because they require judgments, assumptions and estimates that materially impact our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. As a result, if future events differ significantly from the judgments, assumptions and estimates in our critical accounting policies, such events or assumptions could have a material impact on our audited consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. We are exposed to the possibility that more prepayments may be made by customers to pay down loan balances, which could reduce our interest income and profitability. Prepayment rates stem from consumer behavior, conditions in the housing and financial markets, general United States economic conditions, and the relative interest rates on fixed-rate and adjustable-rate loans. Therefore, changes in prepayment rates are difficult to predict. Recognition of deferred loan origination costs and premiums paid in originating these loans are normally recognized over the contractual life of each loan. As prepayments occur, the rate at which net deferred loan origination costs and premiums are expensed will accelerate. The effect of the acceleration of deferred costs and premium amortization may be mitigated by prepayment penalties paid by the borrower when the loan is paid in full within a certain period of time. If prepayment occurs after the period of time when the loan is subject to a prepayment penalty, the effect of the acceleration of premium and deferred cost amortization is no longer mitigated. We recognize premiums paid on mortgage-backed securities as an adjustment from interest income over the expected life of the security based on the rate of repayment of the securities. Acceleration of prepayments on the loans underlying a mortgage-backed security shortens the life of the security, increases the rate at which premiums are expensed and further reduces interest income. We may not be able to reinvest loan and security prepayments at rates comparable to the prepaid instrument particularly in a period of declining interest rates. 30 Efforts to comply with Sarbanes-Oxley Act will involve significant expenditures, and non-compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may adversely affect us. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission that are now applicable to us, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. We have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, greater compliance costs, including costs related to internal controls, as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2008, we were required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and our management has issued a report on our internal controls over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to provide an attestation with respect to management’s report on our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009. We expect the applicability of these rules and regulations to us will continue to increase our accounting, legal and other costs, and to make some activities more difficult, time consuming and costly. In the event that we are unable to maintain or achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules, we may be adversely affected. We have evaluated our internal control systems in order to allow management to report on our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In the future, if we or our independent auditors were to identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that we could not remediate in a timely manner, or if we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent registered public accounting firm, the trading price of our common stock could decline, our ability to obtain any necessary equity or debt financing could suffer, and our common stock could ultimately be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market. In this event, the liquidity of our common stock would be severely limited and the market price of our common stock would likely decline significantly. In addition, the rules adopted as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, which could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. The FDIC Deposit Insurance assessments that we are required to pay may materially increase in the future, which would have an adverse effect on our earnings and our ability to pay our liabilities as they come due. As a member institution of the FDIC, we are required to pay quarterly deposit insurance premium assessments to the FDIC. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we paid $484,000 in deposit insurance. Due to the recent failure of several unaffiliated FDIC insurance depository institutions, and the FDIC’s new Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, the deposit insurance premium assessments paid by all banks will likely increase. In addition, new FDIC requirements shift a greater share of any increase in such assessments onto institutions with higher risk profiles, including banks with heavy reliance on brokered deposits, such as our bank. Given the geographic concentration of our operations, we could be significantly affected by any hurricane that affects coastal South Carolina. Our operations are concentrated in and our loan portfolio consists almost entirely of loans to persons and businesses located in coastal South Carolina. Similarly, the collateral for many of our loans consists of real and personal property located in this same geographic area. This area is susceptible to hurricanes which could cause extensive damage to the general region. Disaster conditions resulting from any hurricane that hits in this area would adversely affect the local economies and real estate markets, which could negatively impact our business. Adverse economic conditions resulting from such a disaster could also negatively impact the ability of our customers to repay their loans and could affect the value of the collateral securing these loans. Furthermore, damage resulting from any hurricane could also result in continued economic uncertainty that could negatively impact businesses in those areas. Consequently, our ability to continue to originate loans may be impaired by adverse changes in local and regional economic conditions in this area following any hurricane. 31 We are exposed to the possibility of technology failure. We rely on our computer systems and the technology of outside service providers. Our daily operations depend on the operational effectiveness of their technology. We rely on our systems to accurately track and record our assets and liabilities. If our computer systems or outside technology sources become unreliable, fail, or experience a breach of security, our ability to maintain accurate financial records may be impaired, which could materially affect our business operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. [Not applicable.] 32 Item 