Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISK FACTORS Difficult market conditions in our coastal markets and economic trends have adversely affected our industry and our business and may continue to do so. Our business has been directly affected by market conditions, trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, and changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. The current economic downturn, increase in unemployment and other events that have negatively affected both household and corporate incomes, both nationally and locally, have decreased the demand for loans and our other products and services and have increased the number of customers who fail to pay interest and/or principal on their loans. As a result, we have experienced significant declines in our coastal real estate markets with decreasing prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, which have negatively affected the credit performance of our loans and resulted in increases in the level of our nonperforming assets and charge-offs of problem loans. At the same time, competition among depository institutions for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. These market conditions and the tightening of credit have led to increased deficiencies in our loan portfolio, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. Our future success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in the Charleston, Myrtle Beach and Hilton Head market areas. Unlike many larger institutions, we are not able to spread the risks of unfavorable economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies and geographic locations. If the markets in which we operate do not recover and grow as anticipated or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally do not improve, our business may continue to be negatively impacted. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, and events that negatively affect the real estate market could hurt our business. Beginning in the second half of 2007 and continuing through 2009, the financial markets were beset by significant volatility associated with subprime mortgages, including adverse impacts on credit quality and liquidity within the financial markets. The volatility has been exacerbated by a significant decline in the value of real estate in our coastal markets. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 69.2% of our loans were secured by real estate mortgages. The real estate collateral for these loans provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. A further weakening of the real estate market in our primary market areas could result in an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our profitability and asset quality. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and shareholder’s equity could be adversely affected. Acts of nature, including hurricanes, tornados, earthquakes, fires and floods, which may cause uninsured damage and other loss of value to real estate that secures these loans, may also negatively impact our financial condition. We are exposed to higher credit risk by commercial real estate, commercial and industrial and construction lending. Commercial real estate, commercial and industrial and construction lending usually involves higher credit risks than that of single-family residential lending. As of December 31, 2009, the following loan types accounted for the stated percentages of our total loan portfolio: commercial real estate — 35.2%, commercial and industrial — 5.5%, residential construction — 17.1%, and commercial construction — 7.2%. These types of loans involve larger loan balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers. Commercial real estate loans may be affected to a greater extent than residential loans by adverse conditions in real estate markets or the economy because commercial real estate borrowers’ ability to repay their loans depends on successful development of their properties, in addition to the factors affecting residential real estate borrowers. These loans also involve greater risk because they generally 23 are not fully amortizing over the loan period, but have a balloon payment due at maturity. A borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or sell the underlying property in a timely manner. Commercial and industrial loans are typically based on the borrowers’ ability to repay the loans from the cash flow of their businesses. These loans may involve greater risk because the availability of funds to repay each loan depends substantially on the success of the business itself. In addition, the collateral securing the loans have the following characteristics: (a) they depreciate over time, (b) they are difficult to appraise and liquidate, and (c) they fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. Risk of loss on a construction loan depends largely upon whether our initial estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction equals or exceeds the cost of the property construction (including interest), the availability of permanent take-out financing, and the builder’s ability to ultimately sell the property. During the construction phase, a number of factors can result in delays and cost overruns. If estimates of value are inaccurate or if actual construction costs exceed estimates, the value of the property securing the loan may be insufficient to ensure full repayment when completed through a permanent loan or by seizure of collateral. Commercial real estate, commercial and industrial and construction loans are more susceptible to a risk of loss during a downturn in the business cycle. Our underwriting, review and monitoring cannot eliminate all of the risks related to these loans. As of December 31, 2009, our outstanding commercial real estate loans were equal to 369% of our total capital. The banking regulators are giving commercial real estate lending greater scrutiny, and may require banks with higher levels of commercial real estate loans to implement improved underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly higher levels of allowances for losses and capital levels as a result of commercial real estate lending growth and exposures. We have entered into an informal Memorandum of Understanding under which our regulators will require us to take certain actions. On November 16, 2009, we entered into an informal MOU with the South Carolina Banking Department and the FDIC. The failure to comply with the terms of the MOU could result in significant enforcement actions against us of increasing severity, up to and including a regulatory takeover of our bank subsidiary. Under the terms of the MOU, we are required to, among other things, (1) submit a capital plan to the supervisory authorities for increasing and maintaining a Tier 1 leverage ratio at 8% and maintaining a “well-capitalized” designation; (2) develop specific plans and proposals for the reduction and improvement of assets which are subject to adverse classification and past due loans; (3) implement a plan to decrease the concentration of commercial real estate loans; and (4) review overall liquidity objectives and develop plans and procedures aimed at improving liquidity and reducing reliance on volatile liabilities to fund longer-term assets. We timely submitted the requested plans to the regulators for their review on January 14, 2010. We may supplement these plans and reports in the future in response to comments and requests from our regulators. In connection with these plans, the MOU requires us to provide status updates to the board of directors of the bank and quarterly status updates to the South Carolina Banking Department and the FDIC. While the MOU remains in place, we may not pay dividends without the prior written consent of the regulators and we may not extend any additional credit to any borrower that has been charged off by the bank or classified as substandard, doubtful or loss in any report of examination as long as the credit remains uncollected. Any material failure to comply with the terms of the MOU could result in further enforcement action by the supervisory authorities. Since entering into the MOU, we have been actively pursuing the corrective actions. We intend to continue to take the actions necessary to comply with the requirements of the MOU, although we may be unable to do so. 24 If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, or if credit delinquencies increase, our losses could increase. Our success depends, to a significant extent, on the quality of our assets, particularly loans. Like other financial institutions, we face the risk that our customers will not repay their loans, that the collateral securing the payment of those loans may be insufficient to assure repayment, and that we may be unsuccessful in recovering the remaining loan balances. The risk of loss varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, for many of our loans, the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio after considering these and other factors. Based in part on those assumptions and judgments, we maintain an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover any loan losses that may occur. In determining the size of the allowance, we also rely on an analysis of our loan portfolio based on historical loss experience, volume and types of loans, trends in classification, delinquencies and nonaccruals, national and local economic conditions and other pertinent information, including the results of external loan reviews. Despite our efforts, our loan assessment techniques may fail to properly account for potential loan losses, and, as a result, our established loan loss reserves may prove insufficient. If we are unable to generate income to compensate for these losses, they could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Higher charge-off rates and an increase in our allowance for loan losses may hurt our overall financial performance and may increase our cost of funds. As of December 31, 2009, we had 67 loans on nonaccrual status totaling approximately $21.3 million, and our allowance for loan loss was $10.0 million. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded $14.7 million as a provision for loan losses, compared to $4.7 million in 2008. The increase was due primarily to the $9.8 million increase in the level of nonperforming loans during 2009. Our current and future allowances for loan losses may not be adequate to cover future loan losses given current and future market conditions. Institution-specific and/or broader industry-wide events may trigger a reduction in the availability of funding needed for day-to-day operations, resulting in a liquidity crisis. We require a certain level of available funding each day to meet the liquidity demands of our operations. These demands include funding for new loan production, funding available for customer withdrawal requests and maturing time deposits not being renewed, and funding for settlement of investment portfolio transactions. Both institution specific events such as deterioration in our credit ratings resulting from a weakened capital position or from lack of earnings and industry-wide events such as a collapse of credit markets may result in a reduction of available funding sources sufficient to cover the liquidity demands. Such a crisis could significantly jeopardize our ability to continue operations. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address the current difficult market and economic conditions may not achieve the desired effect. Beginning in October 2008, a host of legislation and regulation has been enacted in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and the threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. These include the following: · On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law Emergency Economic Stabilization Act (“EESA”), under which the U.S. Treasury Department has the authority, among other things, to purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions under the Troubled Asset Relief Program for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. · On October 14, 2008, the Treasury Department announced the Capital Purchase Plan under the EESA under which it would purchase senior preferred stock and warrants to purchase common stock from participating financial institutions. 25 · On November 21, 2008, the FDIC adopted a Final Rule with respect to its Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program under which the FDIC will guarantee certain “newly-issued unsecured debt” of banks and certain holding companies and also guarantee, on an unlimited basis, non-interest bearing bank transaction accounts. · On February 10, 2009, the Treasury Department announced the Financial Stability Plan under the EESA, which is intended to further stabilize financial institutions and stimulate lending across a broad range of economic sectors. · On February 18, 2009, President Obama signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, a broad economic stimulus package that included additional restrictions on, and potential additional regulation of, financial institutions. · On March 18, 2009, the Federal Reserve announced its decision to purchase as much as $300 billion of long-term treasuries in an effort to maintain low interest rates. · On March 23, 2009, the Treasury Department announced the Public-Private Investment Program, which will purchase real estate related loans from banks and securities from the broader markets, and is intended to create a market for those distressed debt and securities. Each of these programs was implemented to help stabilize and provide liquidity to the financial system. However, the long-term effect that these or any other governmental program may have on the financial markets or our business or financial performance is unknown. A continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. Regulatory reform of the U.S. banking system may adversely affect us. On June 17, 2009, the Obama Administration announced a comprehensive plan for regulatory reform of the financial services industry. The plan set forth five separate initiatives that will be the focus of the regulatory reform, including requiring strong supervision and appropriate regulation of all financial firms, strengthening regulation of core markets and market infrastructure, strengthening consumer protection, strengthening regulatory powers to effectively manage failing institutions and improving international regulatory standards and cooperation. Other recent developments include: · the Federal Reserve’s proposed guidance on incentive compensation policies at banking organizations; and · proposals to limit a lender’s ability to foreclose on mortgages or make those foreclosures less economically viable, including by allowing Chapter 13 bankruptcy plans to “cram down” the value of certain mortgages on a consumer’s principal residence to its market value and/or reset interest rates and monthly payments to permit defaulting debtors to remain in their home. These initiatives may increase our expenses or decrease our income by, among other things, making it harder for us to foreclose on mortgages. Further, the overall effects of these and other legislative and regulatory efforts on the financial markets remain uncertain, and they may not have the intended stabilization results. These efforts may even have unintended harmful consequences on the U.S. financial system and our business. Should these or other legislative or regulatory initiatives have unintended effects, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we may need to modify our strategies and business operations in response to these changes. We may also incur increased capital requirements and constraints or additional costs to satisfy new regulatory requirements. Given the volatile nature of the current market and the uncertainties underlying efforts to mitigate or 26 reverse disruptions, we may not timely anticipate or manage existing, new or additional risks, contingencies or developments in the current or future environment. Our failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Because of our participation in the Treasury Department’s Capital Purchase Program, we are subject to several restrictions including restrictions on compensation paid to our executives and other employees. Under the terms of the CPP Purchase Agreement between us and the Treasury, we adopted certain standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which the Treasury holds the equity we issued or may issue to the Treasury, including the common stock we may issue under the CPP Warrant. These standards generally apply to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the three next most highly compensated senior executive officers. The standards include (1) ensuring that incentive compensation for senior executives does not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of the financial institution; (2) required clawback of any bonus or incentive compensation paid to a senior executive and the next 20 most highly compensated employees based on statements of earnings, gains or other criteria that are later proven to be materially inaccurate; (3) prohibition on making golden parachute payments to senior executives and the next five most highly compensated employees; and (4) agreement not to deduct for tax purposes executive compensation in excess of $500,000 for each senior executive. In particular, the change to the deductibility limit on executive compensation will likely increase the overall cost of our compensation programs in future periods and may make it more difficult to attract suitable candidates to serve as executive officers. Legislation or regulatory changes could cause us to seek to repurchase the preferred stock and warrant that we sold to the U.S. Treasury under the Capital Purchase Program. Legislation and regulation that have been adopted after we closed on our sale of Series T Preferred Stock and warrants to the Treasury for $14.4 million under the CPP on December 19, 2008, or any legislation or regulations that may be implemented in the future, may have a material effect on the terms of our CPP transaction with the Treasury. If we determine that any such legislation or any regulations alter the terms of our CPP transaction with the Treasury in ways that we believe are adverse to our ability to effectively manage our business, then we may seek to unwind, in whole or in part, the CPP transaction by repurchasing some or all of the preferred stock and the warrant that we sold to the Treasury. If we were to repurchase all or a portion of the preferred stock or warrant, then our capital levels could be materially reduced. Our continued operations and future growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when we need it. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We may at some point need to raise additional capital to support our operations and any future growth, as well as to protect against any further deterioration in our loan portfolio. In addition, we intend to redeem the Series T Preferred Stock that we issued to the Treasury under the CPP before the dividends on the Series T Preferred Stock increase from 5% per annum to 9% per annum in 2014, and we may need to raise additional capital to do so. We may be unable to raise additional capital, if and when needed, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to continue our current operations or further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. In addition, if we decide to raise additional equity capital, your interest could be diluted. A large percentage of the loans in our portfolio currently include exceptions to our loan policies and supervisory guidelines. All of the loans that we make are subject to written loan policies adopted by our board of directors and to supervisory guidelines imposed by our regulators. Our loan policies are designed to reduce the risks associated with the loans that we make by requiring our loan officers, before closing a loan, to take certain steps that vary depending on the type and amount of the loan. These steps include making sure the proper liens are documented and perfected on property securing a loan, and requiring proof of adequate insurance coverage on property securing loans. Loans that do not fully comply with our loan policies are known as “exceptions.” While we generally underwrite the loans 27 in our portfolio in accordance with our own internal underwriting guidelines and regulatory supervisory guidelines, in certain circumstances we have made loans which exceed either our internal underwriting guidelines, supervisory guidelines, or both. We categorize exceptions as policy exceptions, financial statement exceptions and collateral exceptions. Interagency guidelines for real estate lending policies allow institutions to originate loans in excess of the supervisory loan to value limits, however, the aggregate amount of such loans should not exceed 100% of total capital. As of December 31, 2009, approximately $77.4 million of our loans, or 133.5% of our bank’s capital, had loan-to-value ratios that exceeded regulatory supervisory guidelines, of which 64 loans totaling approximately $23.2 million had loan-to-value ratios of 100% or more. In addition, supervisory limits on commercial loan to value exceptions are set at 30% of a bank’s capital. At December 31, 2009, $39.3 million of our commercial loans, or 67.8% of our bank’s capital, exceeded the supervisory loan to value ratio. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 13.8% of the loans in our portfolio included collateral exceptions to our loan policies, which exceeds the 10% suggested by regulatory guidance. As a result of these exceptions, those loans may have a higher risk of loss than the other loans in our portfolio that fully comply with our loan policies. In addition, we may be subject to regulatory action by federal or state banking authorities if they believe the number of exceptions in our loan portfolio represents an unsafe banking practice. Although we have taken steps to reduce the number of exceptions in our loan portfolio, we may not be successful in reducing the number of exceptions in our loan portfolio. Our net interest income could be negatively affected by the lower level of short-term interest rates, recent developments in the credit and real estate markets and competition in our primary market area. As a financial institution, our earnings significantly depend upon our net interest income, which is the difference between the income that we earn on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the expense that we pay on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Therefore, any change in general market interest rates, including changes resulting from changes in the Federal Reserve’s fiscal and monetary policies, affects us more than non-financial institutions and can have a significant effect on our net interest income and net income. The Federal Reserve reduced interest rates on three occasions in 2007 by a total of 100 basis points, to 4.25%, and by another 400 basis points, to a range of 0% to 0.25%, during 2008. Rates remained steady for 2009. On March 18, 2009, the Federal Reserve announced its decision to purchase as much as $300 billion of long-term treasuries in an effort to maintain low interest rates. Approximately 56.2% of our loans were variable rate loans at December 31, 2009. The interest rates on a significant segment of these loans decrease when the Federal Reserve reduces interest rates, while the interest that we earn on our assets may not change in the same amount or at the same rates. Accordingly, increases in interest rates may reduce our net interest income. In addition, an increase in interest rates may decrease the demand for loans. Furthermore, increases in interest rates will add to the expenses of our borrowers, which may adversely affect their ability to repay their loans with us. Increased nonperforming loans and the decrease in interest rates reduced our net interest income during 2009 and could cause additional pressure on net interest income in future periods. This reduction in net interest income may also be exacerbated by the high level of competition that we face in our primary market areas. Any significant reduction in our net interest income could negatively affect our business and could have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. Higher FDIC Deposit Insurance premiums and assessments that we are required to pay could have an adverse effect on our earnings and our ability to pay our liabilities as they come due. As a member institution of the FDIC, we are required to pay quarterly deposit insurance premium assessments to the FDIC. Due to the large number of recent bank failures, and the FDIC’s new Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, the FDIC adopted a revised risk-based deposit insurance assessment schedule in February 2009, which raised deposit insurance premiums. The FDIC also implemented a five basis point special assessment of each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, which special assessment amount was capped at 10 basis points times the institution’s assessment base for the second quarter of 2009. In addition, the FDIC recently announced a rule that requires financial institutions like us to prepay their 28 estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010 through and including 2012 to re-capitalize the Deposit Insurance Fund. The FDIC may exercise its discretion as supervisor and insurer to exempt an institution from the prepayment requirement if the FDIC determines that the prepayment would adversely affect the safety and soundness of the institution. We did not request exemption from the prepayment requirement. During 2009, we paid $4.8 million in deposit insurance, which included regular premiums, the special assessment and the prepayment for all of 2010 through and including 2012. The rule also provides for increasing the FDIC-assessment rates by three basis points effective January 1, 2011. If FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments continue to increase, these higher payments could adversely affect our financial condition. We depend on key individuals, and our continued success depends on our ability to identify and retain individuals with experience and relationships in our markets. The loss of one or more of these key individuals could curtail our growth and adversely affect our prospects. Robert E. Coffee, Jr., our president and chief executive officer, has extensive and long-standing ties within our market areas and substantial experience with our operations, which has contributed significantly to our business. If we lose the services of Mr. Coffee, he would be difficult to replace, and our business and development could be materially and adversely affected. To succeed in our markets, we must identify and retain experienced key management members with local expertise and relationships in these markets. We expect that competition for qualified management in our markets will be intense and that there will be a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of and experience in the community banking industry in these markets. In addition, the process of identifying and recruiting individuals with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategy requires both management and financial resources and is often lengthy. Our inability to identify, recruit and retain talented personnel to manage our offices effectively would limit our growth and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of the services of several key personnel could adversely affect our strategy and prospects to the extent we are unable to replace them. We face strong competition for customers, which could prevent us from obtaining customers or may cause us to pay higher interest rates to attract customer deposits. The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience competition in our markets from many other financial institutions. Customer loyalty can be easily influenced by a competitor’s new products, especially offerings that could provide cost savings or a higher return to the customer. Moreover, this competitive industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other mutual funds, as well as super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions, such as BB&T, Bank of America, Wells Fargo, Carolina First Bank and South Carolina Bank & Trust. These institutions offer some services that we do not provide, such as extensive and established branch networks and trust services. We also compete with local community banks in our market. We may not be able to compete successfully with other financial institutions in our market, and we may have to pay higher interest rates to attract deposits, accept lower yields on loans to attract loans and pay higher wages for new employees, resulting in reduced profitability. In addition, competitors that are not depository institutions are generally not subject to the extensive regulations that apply to us. We may not be able to compete with our larger competitors for larger customers because our lending limits are lower than theirs. We are limited in the amount we can loan a single borrower by the amount of the bank’s capital. Our legal lending limit is 15% of the bank’s capital and surplus, or $8.7 million at December 31, 2009. Our internal lending 29 limit was $5.2 million at December 31, 2009. This is significantly less than the limit for our larger competitors and may affect our ability to seek relationships with larger businesses in our market areas. We have been able to sell participations in our larger loans to other financial institutions, which has allowed us to meet the lending needs of our customers requiring extensions of credit in excess of these limits. In the current economic environment, however, it has been difficult to sell participations to other financial institutions. We expect to sell participations only on a limited basis going forward. The costs of being an SEC registered company are proportionately higher for smaller companies like Tidelands Bancshares because of the requirements imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. These regulations are applicable to our company. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, increasing compliance costs, including costs related to internal controls, as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. These necessary costs are proportionately higher for a company of our size and will affect our profitability more than that of some of our larger competitors. We will face risks with respect to future expansion and acquisitions or mergers. Although we do not have any current plans to do so, we may seek to acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions. We may also expand into new markets or lines of business or offer new products or services. These activities would involve a number of risks, including: · the time and expense associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners; · using inaccurate estimates and judgments to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution or assets; · diluting our existing shareholders in an acquisition; · the time and expense associated with evaluating new markets for expansion, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices, as there may be a substantial time lag between these activities before we generate sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; · taking a significant amount of time negotiating a transaction or working on expansion plans, resulting in management’s attention being diverted from the operation of our existing business; · the time and expense associated with integrating the operations and personnel of the combined businesses; · creating an adverse short-term effect on our results of operations; and · losing key employees and customers as a result of an acquisition that is poorly received. Although our management team has acquisition experience at other institutions, we have never acquired another institution before, so we lack experience as an organization in handling any of these risks. There is also a risk that any expansion effort will not be successful. The accuracy of our financial statements and related disclosures could be affected because we are exposed to conditions or assumptions different from the judgments, assumptions or estimates used in our critical accounting policies. The preparation of financial statements and related disclosure in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires us to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our critical accounting policies, which we summarize in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, describe those significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements that we consider “critical” because they require judgments, assumptions and estimates about the future that materially impact our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. For example, material estimates that are particularly susceptible to significant change relate to the determination of the allowance for losses on loans, including valuation allowances for impaired loans, and the valuation of real estate acquired in connection 30 with foreclosures or in satisfaction of loans. As a result, if future events differ significantly from the judgments, assumptions and estimates in our critical accounting policies, those events or assumptions could have a material impact on our audited consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. We are exposed to the possibility that customers may prepay theirs loans to pay down loan balances, which could reduce our interest income and profitability. Prepayment rates stem from consumer behavior, conditions in the housing and financial markets, general United States economic conditions, and the relative interest rates on fixed-rate and adjustable-rate loans. Therefore, changes in prepayment rates are difficult to predict. Recognition of deferred loan origination costs and premiums paid in originating these loans are normally recognized over the contractual life of each loan. As prepayments occur, the rate at which net deferred loan origination costs and premiums are expensed will accelerate. The effect of the acceleration of deferred costs and premium amortization may be mitigated by prepayment penalties paid by the borrower when the loan is paid in full within a certain period of time. If prepayment occurs after the period of time when the loan is subject to a prepayment penalty, the effect of the acceleration of premium and deferred cost amortization is no longer mitigated. We recognize premiums paid on mortgage-backed securities as an adjustment from interest income over the expected life of the security based on the rate of repayment of the securities. Acceleration of prepayments on the loans underlying a mortgage-backed security shortens the life of the security, increases the rate at which premiums are expensed and further reduces interest income. We may not be able to reinvest loan and security prepayments at rates comparable to the prepaid instrument particularly in a period of declining interest rates. Given the geographic concentration of our operations, we could be significantly affected by any hurricane that affects coastal South Carolina. Our operations are concentrated in and our loan portfolio consists almost entirely of loans to persons and businesses located in coastal South Carolina. The collateral for many of our loans consists of real and personal property located in this area, which is susceptible to hurricanes that can cause extensive damage to the general region. Disaster conditions resulting from any hurricane that hits in this area would adversely affect the local economies and real estate markets, which could negatively impact our business. Adverse economic conditions resulting from such a disaster could also negatively affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans and could reduce the value of the collateral securing these loans. Furthermore, damage resulting from any hurricane could also result in continued economic uncertainty that could negatively impact businesses in those areas. Consequently, our ability to continue to originate loans may be impaired by adverse changes in local and regional economic conditions in this area following any hurricane. We must respond to rapid technological changes, which may be more difficult or expensive than anticipated. If our competitors introduce new products and services embodying new technologies, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing product and service offerings, technology and systems may become obsolete. Further, if we fail to adopt or develop new technologies or to adapt our products and services to emerging industry standards, we may lose current and future customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The financial services industry is changing rapidly, and to remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our products, services and technologies. These changes may be more difficult or expensive than we anticipate. Our ability to pay dividends on and repurchase our common stock is restricted. Since our inception, we have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock, and we do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. However, the ability of our bank to pay cash dividends to our holding company is currently prohibited by the restrictions of the MOU with the South Carolina Banking Department and the FDIC. Even if we decide to pay cash dividends in the future and our regulators permit us to do so, our ability to do so will be limited by the regulatory restrictions described in the following sentence, by the bank’s ability to pay cash dividends to us based on its capital position and profitability, and by our need to maintain sufficient capital to support the bank’s operations. The ability of the bank to pay cash dividends to us is limited by its obligations to 31 maintain sufficient capital and by other restrictions on its cash dividends that are applicable to South Carolina state banks and banks that are regulated by the FDIC. If we do not satisfy these regulatory requirements, we will be unable to pay cash dividends on our common stock. In addition, the CPP Purchase Agreement provides that before December 19, 2011, unless we have redeemed the Series T Preferred Stock or the Treasury has transferred the Series T Preferred Stock to a third party, we must obtain the consent of the Treasury to (1) declare or pay any dividend or make any distribution on our common stock, or (2) redeem, purchase or acquire any shares of our common stock or other equity or capital securities, other than in connection with benefit plans consistent with past practice and certain other circumstances specified in the purchase agreement. These restrictions, together with the potentially dilutive impact of the warrant described in the next risk factor, could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. The warrant we issued to the Treasury may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. The ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the CPP Warrant is exercised. The shares of common stock underlying the warrant represent approximately 11.8% of the shares of our common stock outstanding as of February 22, 2010 (including the shares issuable upon exercise of the warrant in total shares outstanding). Although Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon exercise of the warrant, a transferee of any portion of the warrant or of any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the warrant will not be bound by this restriction. The holders of our junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our common shareholders. We have supported our continued growth through the issuance of trust preferred securities from two special purpose trusts and an accompanying sale of $14.4 million junior subordinated debentures to these trusts. We have conditionally guaranteed payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities of these trusts. We must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before we can pay any dividends on our common stock. In the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our common stock. We have the right to defer distributions on the junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time we cannot pay any dividends on our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable 32 