Item 1A. Risk Factors. In the ordinary course of operating our business, we are exposed to a variety of risks that are inherent to the financial services industry. The following discusses the significant risk factors that could affect our business and operations, as well as other significant risk factors which are particularly relevant during the current period of continued economic and market disruption. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected, the market price for your investment in the Company’s common stock could decline, and you could lose all or a part of your investment in the Company’s common stock. Deterioration in the housing sector and related markets and prolonged elevated unemployment levels may adversely affect our business and financial results. During 2012, general economic conditions did not materially improve. While we did not invest in sub-prime mortgages and related investments, our lending business and investments in mortgage-backed securities are tied, in large part, to the housing market. Lower home prices, the continued high level of foreclosures, the protracted foreclosure process in New Jersey and high unemployment have adversely impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans, resulting in reductions in collateral values. The housing slump has resulted in reduced demand for the construction of single-family housing, declines in home prices, and has contributed to elevated delinquencies on residential and commercial mortgage loans. These conditions may potentially cause a reduction in loan demand, and increases in our non-performing assets, net charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. A worsening of these negative economic conditions could adversely impact our prospects for growth, asset and goodwill valuations, and could result in a decrease in our interest income and a material increase in our provision for loan losses. Our commercial real estate, multi-family, and commercial loans expose us to increased lending risks. Our strategy continues to be to increase our commercial mortgage loans, commercial loans and, to a lesser extent, construction loans. These loans are generally regarded as having a higher risk of default and loss than single-family residential mortgage loans, because repayment of these loans often depends on the successful operation of a business or of the underlying property. In addition, our construction loans, commercial mortgage loans and commercial loans have significantly larger average loan balances compared to our single-family residential mortgage loans. At December 31, 2012, the average loan size for a construction loan was $3.6 million, for a commercial mortgage loan was $2.0 million, and for a commercial loan was $428,000, compared to an average loan size of $206,000 for a single-family residential mortgage loan. Also, many of our borrowers of 37 Table of Contents these types of loans have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, any adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to one single-family residential mortgage loan. Our continuing concentration of loans in our primary market area may increase our risk. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in northern and central New Jersey. Unlike some larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers primarily in northern and central New Jersey. The local economic conditions in northern and central New Jersey, including an unemployment rate of 9.6% at December 31, 2012, have a significant impact on our construction loans, commercial mortgage loans, commercial loans, and residential mortgage loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A further decline in local economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control would impact these local economic conditions and could negatively affect the financial results of our banking operations. Additionally, because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, further declines in real estate values and the continued slump in real estate sales may also have a negative effect on the ability of many of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings and overall financial condition. We target our business development and marketing strategy for loans to serve primarily the banking and financial services needs of small- to medium-sized businesses in northern and central New Jersey. These small- to medium-sized businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions negatively impact these businesses, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, or if delinquencies do not continue to improve or non-accrual and non-performing loans increase, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease our net income. Our emphasis on the continued diversification of our loan portfolio through the origination of commercial mortgage loans, commercial loans, and construction loans has been one of the more significant factors we have taken into account in evaluating our allowance for loan losses and provision for loan losses. In the event we were to further increase the amount of such types of loans in our portfolio, we may decide to make additional or increased provisions for loans losses, which could adversely affect our earnings. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our financial condition and results of operations are significantly affected by changes in market interest rates. Our results of operations substantially depend on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing 38 Table of Contents liabilities. Our interest-bearing liabilities generally reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets. If rates increase rapidly, we may have to increase the rates we pay on our deposits and borrowed funds more quickly than any changes in interest rates earned on our loans and investments, resulting in a negative effect on interest spreads and net interest income. In addition, the effect of rising rates could be compounded if deposit customers move funds from savings accounts to higher rate certificate of deposit accounts. Conversely, should market interest rates fall below current levels, our net interest margin could also be negatively affected if competitive pressures keep us from further reducing rates on our deposits, while the yields on our assets decrease more rapidly through loan prepayments and interest rate adjustments. In the event of a 300 basis point increase in interest rates, whereby rates ramp up evenly over a twelve-month period, and assuming management took no actions to mitigate the effect of such change, we are projecting that our net interest income would decrease 5.6% or $12.0 million. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest-earning assets, and in particular our securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2012, our available for sale securities portfolio totaled $1.26 billion. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates therefore could have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. We are also subject to prepayment and reinvestment risk related to interest rate movements. Changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in the prepayment or refinancing of loans and loans underlying mortgage related securities, resulting in accelerated cash flows subject to reinvestment at reduced market interest rates and increased premium amortization. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that such prepayments are not available to reinvest at prevailing market rates at a profitable spread in excess of our funding costs. Increases in interest rates can result in reduced prepayments of loans and mortgage related securities, as borrowers retain existing loans to maintain lower borrowing costs. Historically low interest rates may adversely affect our net interest income and profitability. The Federal Reserve Board has recently maintained interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. As a general matter, our interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, which has resulted in increases in net interest income in the short term. Our ability to lower our interest expense is limited at these interest rate levels, while the average yield on our interest-earning assets may continue to decrease. The Federal Reserve Board has indicated its intention to maintain low interest rates through late 2014 or until the national unemployment rate decreases to 6.5%. Accordingly, our net interest income (the difference between interest income earned on assets and interest expense paid on liabilities) may decrease, which may have an adverse affect on our profitability. We hold certain intangible assets that could be classified as impaired in the future. If these assets are considered to be either partially or fully impaired in the future, our earnings could decline. We record all assets and liabilities acquired by the Company in purchase acquisitions, including goodwill and other intangible assets, at fair value. At December 31, 2012, goodwill totaling $352.6 million was not amortized but remains subject to impairment tests at least annually, or more often if events or circumstances indicate it may be impaired. Other intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are subject to impairment tests if events or circumstances indicate a potential inability to realize the carrying amount. The initial recording and subsequent impairment testing of goodwill and other intangible assets requires subjective judgments about the estimates of the fair value of assets acquired. The Company early adopted amended guidance related to the annual goodwill impairment assessment. The guidance provides the option to qualitatively determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a 39 Table of Contents reporting unit is less than its carrying amount before proceeding with a two step quantitative impairment analysis. If a company concludes that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the entity would be required perform Step 1 of the quantitative impairment analysis and then, if needed, Step 2 to determine whether goodwill is impaired. The first step compares the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is considered not impaired. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an additional test must be performed. The second step test compares the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. An impairment loss would be recorded to the extent that the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied value. Fair value may be determined using market prices, comparison to similar assets, market multiples, discounted cash flow analysis and other factors. Estimated cash flows may extend far into the future and by their nature are difficult to determine over an extended time frame. Factors that may significantly affect the estimates include specific industry or market sector conditions, changes in revenue growth trends, customer behavior, competitive forces, cost structures and changes in discount rates. It is possible that our future impairment testing could result in an impairment of the value of goodwill or other identified intangible assets, or both. If we determine impairment exists at a given point in time, our earnings and the book value of the related intangible asset(s) will be reduced by the amount of the impairment. In any event, the results of impairment testing on goodwill and other identified intangible assets have no impact on our tangible book value or regulatory capital levels. Further declines in the value of certain investment securities could require an other-than-temporary impairment charge which would reduce our earnings. Our securities portfolio includes securities that have declined in value due to the lack of liquidity for securities that are real estate related and weaker credit performance of collateral underlying such securities. These securities include private label mortgage-backed securities. A prolonged decline in the value of these securities could result in an other-than-temporary impairment write-down which would reduce our earnings. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance, our chartering authority, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of our deposits. As a bank holding company, Provident Financial Services, Inc. is subject to regulation and oversight by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which a bank and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the requirement for additional capital, the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, could have a material impact on our operations. The potential exists for additional Federal or state laws and regulations regarding capital requirements, lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to remain active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the potential issuance of formal enforcement orders. Actions taken to date, as well as potential actions, may not have the beneficial effects that are intended. In addition, new laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes could increase our increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operations. New laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes, along with negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. 40 Table of Contents The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, created a new consumer financial protection bureau, tightened capital standards and resulted in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) has significantly changed the bank regulatory structure and affected the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impacts of the Dodd-Frank Act may still not be known for some time. However, it is expected that the legislation and implementing regulations may materially increase our operating and compliance costs. The Dodd-Frank Act created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks such as ours with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance with consumer laws by their primary bank regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act requires minimum leverage (Tier 1) and risk-based capital requirements for bank and savings and loan holding companies that are no less than those applicable to banks, and directs the federal banking regulators to implement new leverage and capital requirements that take into account off-balance sheet activities and other risks, including risks relating to securitized products and derivatives. Because the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, we face significant operational risks. We operate in diverse market segments and rely on the ability of our employees, systems and third party providers to process a high number of transactions. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from our operations, including but not limited to, the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside our company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and technology, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements, and business continuation and disaster recovery. Insurance coverage may not be available for such losses, or where available, such losses may exceed insurance limits. This risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of an operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse business decisions or their implementation, and customer attrition due to potential negative publicity. In the event of a breakdown in the internal control system, improper operation of systems or improper employee actions, we could suffer financial loss, face regulatory action, and suffer damage to our reputation. Risks associated with cyber-security, system failures, interruptions, or other breaches of security could negatively affect our earnings. Information technology systems are critical to our business. We use various technology systems to manage our customer relationships, financial reporting, securities investments, deposits, and loans. The financial services industry has experienced an increase in both the number and severity of reported cyber attacks aimed at gaining unauthorized access to bank systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption. We have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of system failures, interruptions, and security breaches, but such events may still occur or may not be adequately addressed if they do occur. In addition, any compromise of our systems could deter customers from using our products and services. Although we rely on security systems to provide security and authentication necessary to effect the secure transmission of data, these precautions may not fully protect our systems from compromises or breaches of security. 41 Table of Contents In addition, we outsource a majority of our data processing to certain third-party providers. If these third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely affected. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel. The occurrence of any system failures, interruption, or breach of security could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business thereby subjecting us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose us to litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our risk management program may not be effective in mitigating risk and reducing the potential for significant losses. Our risk management program is designed to minimize risk and loss to us. We seek to identify, measure, monitor, report and control our exposure to risk, including strategic, market, liquidity, compliance and operational risks. While we use a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and mitigation techniques, these techniques are inherently limited because they cannot anticipate the existence or future development of currently unanticipated or unknown risks. Recent economic conditions and heightened regulatory scrutiny of the financial services industry, among other developments, have increased our level of risk. Accordingly, we could suffer losses as a result of our failure to properly anticipate and manage these risks. Acts of terrorism, severe weather and other external events could impact our ability to conduct business. Our business is subject to risk from external events. Financial institutions have been, and continue to be, targets of terrorist threats aimed at compromising their operating and communication systems. The metropolitan New York and Northern New Jersey areas remain central targets for potential acts of terrorism. Additionally, recent severe weather-related events have adversely impacted customers in our market area, especially those in areas located near coastal waters and flood prone areas. Events such as these may become more common in the future and could cause significant damage, impact the stability of our facilities and result in additional expenses, impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, reduce the value of collateral securing the repayment of our loans, and result in the loss of revenue. While we have established and regularly test disaster recovery procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition. Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. In particular, over the past decade, New Jersey has experienced the effects of substantial banking consolidation, and large out-of-state competitors have grown significantly. There are also a number of strong locally-based competitors in our market. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do, and may offer certain services or credit criteria that we do not or cannot provide. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved comments from the staff of the SEC to report. 42 Table of Contents 