Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to factors discussed in the description of our business and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following are risk factors that could adversely affect our future results of operations and our financial condition. 32 Table of Contents The Company May Fail to Realize the Anticipated Benefits of the Proposed Merger of First Morris Bank & Trust into The Provident Bank On October 16, 2006, the Company announced the proposed merger of First Morris Bank & Trust with and into The Provident Bank, the Company’s wholly-owned bank subsidiary. The proposed merger remains subject to approval by banking regulators, as well as the stockholders of First Morris Bank & Trust. We anticipate completing the merger early in the second quarter of 2007. The success of the proposed merger will depend on, among other things, the Company’s ability to realize anticipated cost savings and to combine the businesses of The Provident Bank and First Morris Bank & Trust in a manner that does not materially disrupt the existing customer relationships of The Provident Bank or First Morris Bank & Trust or result in decreased revenues from any loss of customers. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. The Company and First Morris Bank & Trust have operated and, until the completion of the merger, will continue to operate, independently. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of the Company’s or First Morris Bank & Trust’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the ability of the Company to maintain relationships with customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. Our Construction, Commercial Real Estate and Commercial Loans Expose Us to Increased Lending Risks Our strategy continues to be to increase our construction loans, commercial mortgage loans and commercial loans. These loans are generally regarded as having a higher risk of default and loss than single-family residential mortgage loans, because repayment of these loans often depends on the successful operation of a business or of the underlying property. In addition, our construction loans, commercial mortgage loans and commercial loans have significantly larger average loan balances compared to our single-family residential mortgage loans. At December 31, 2006, the average loan size for a construction loan was $3.4 million, for a commercial real estate loan was $1.5 million and for a commercial loan was $207,000, compared to an average loan size of $180,000 for a single-family residential mortgage loan. Also, many of our borrowers of these types of loans have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, any adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to one single-family residential mortgage loan. Our Continuing Concentration of Loans in Our Primary Market Area May Increase Our Risk Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in northern and central New Jersey. Unlike some larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers primarily in northern and central New Jersey. The local economic conditions in northern and central New Jersey have a significant impact on our construction loans, commercial mortgage loans and commercial loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control would impact these local economic conditions and could negatively affect the financial results of our banking operations. Additionally, because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, decreases in real estate values and a slowdown in real estate sales may also have a negative effect on the ability of many of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. We target our business development and marketing strategy for loans to serve primarily the banking and financial services needs of small- to medium-sized businesses in northern and central New Jersey. These small- to medium-sized businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions negatively impact these businesses, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. If Our Allowance for Loan Losses is Not Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan Losses, Our Earnings Could Decrease Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of the loans, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. We may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. Material additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. Our emphasis on continued diversification of our loan portfolio through the origination of construction loans, commercial mortgage loans, and commercial loans has been one of the more significant factors we have taken into account in evaluating our 33 Table of Contents allowance for loan losses and provision for loan losses. In the event we were to further increase the amount of such types of loans in our portfolio, we may determine to make additional or increased provisions for loans losses, which could adversely affect our earnings. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition Our results of operations and financial condition are significantly affected by changes in interest rates. Our results of operations are affected substantially by our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in interest rates could have an adverse affect on net interest income because, as a general matter, our interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, an increase in interest rates generally would result in a decrease in our average interest rate spread and net interest income, which would have a negative effect on our profitability. In the event of a 200 basis point increase in interest rates, whereby rates ramp up evenly over a twelve-month period, and assuming management took no actions to mitigate the effect of such change, we are projecting that our net interest income would decrease 2.1% or $3.4 million. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest-earning assets, and in particular our securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2006, our available for sale securities portfolio totaled $790.9 million. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of equity. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates therefore could have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. We are also subject to prepayment and reinvestment risk related to interest rate movements. Changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans or securities. We Operate in a Highly Regulated Environment and May be Adversely Affected by Changes in Laws and Regulations We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance, our chartering authority, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of our deposits. As a bank holding company, Provident Financial Services, Inc. is subject to regulation and oversight by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which a bank and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, could have a material impact on The Provident Bank, Provident Financial Services, Inc., and our operations. Strong Competition Within Our Market Area May Limit Our Growth and Profitability Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. In particular, over the past decade, New Jersey has experienced the effects of substantial banking consolidation, and large out-of-state competitors have grown significantly. There are also a number of strong locally-based competitors in our market. Many of these competitors (whether regional or national institutions) have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do, and may offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved comments from the staff of the SEC to report. 34 Table of Contents 