Item 1A: Risk Factors RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risk factors described below, as well as other information we include or incorporate by reference in this report and the information in the other reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently deem immaterial may also become important factors that may materially affect us. Our profitability will depend on our ability to accurately predict and effectively manage medical costs. Our profitability depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to accurately predict and effectively manage medical costs. Historically, our medical care cost ratio, meaning our medical care costs as a percentage of premium revenue, has fluctuated. Because the premium payments we receive are generally fixed in advance and we operate with a narrow profit margin, relatively small changes in our medical care cost ratio can create significant changes in our financial results, as was shown by our unexpected results in the second quarter of 2005. Factors that may affect our medical care costs include the level of utilization of healthcare services, increases in hospital costs or pharmaceutical costs, an increased incidence or acuity of high dollar claims related to catastrophic illness for which we do not have adequate reinsurance coverage, increased maternity costs, payment rates that are not actuarially sound, changes in state eligibility certification methodologies, unexpected patterns in the annual flu season, relatively low levels of hospital and specialty provider competition in certain geographic areas, increases in the cost of pharmaceutical products and services, changes in healthcare regulations and practices, epidemics, new medical technologies, and other external factors such as general economic conditions or inflation. Many of these factors are beyond our control and could reduce our ability to accurately predict and effectively control the costs of providing health care services. The inability to forecast and manage our medical care costs or to establish and maintain a satisfactory medical care cost ratio could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. A failure to accurately estimate incurred but not reported medical care costs may negatively impact our results of operations. Because of the significant time lag between when medical services are actually rendered by our providers and when we receive, process, and pay a claim for those medical services, we must continually estimate our medical claims liability at particular points in time, and establish claims reserves related to such estimates. Our estimated reserves for such “incurred but not reported,” or IBNR medical care costs, are based on numerous assumptions. We estimate our medical claims liabilities using actuarial methods based on historical data adjusted for relevant payment patterns, cost trends, product mix, seasonality, utilization of health care services, and other relevant factors. The estimation methods and the resulting reserves are continually monitored, reviewed, and updated, and adjustments, if deemed necessary, are reflected in the period known. Given the uncertainties inherent in such estimates, our actual claims liabilities for particular periods could differ significantly from the amounts estimated and reserved. As occurred in the second quarter of 2005, our actual claims liabilities have varied and will continue to vary from our estimates, particularly in times of significant changes in utilization, medical cost trends, and populations and markets served. If our actual liability for claims payments is higher than estimated, our earnings per share in any particular quarter or annual period could be negatively affected. Our estimates of claims incurred but not reported may be inadequate in the future, which would negatively affect our results of operations for the relevant time period. Furthermore, if we are unable to accurately estimate claims incurred but not reported, our ability to take timely corrective actions may be limited, further exacerbating the extent of the negative impact on our results. There are numerous risks associated with the rapid growth of our Ohio and Texas HMOs. Membership at our Ohio and Texas HMOs is growing rapidly, and is expected to continue to grow rapidly throughout 2007. Such rapid growth will likely require a significant concentration of our Company energy and 12 Table of Contents resources, thereby potentially limiting our ability to pursue new requests for proposals or other new business opportunities. The medical care ratio of our Ohio and Texas HMOs has been substantially higher than that historically experienced by the Company as a whole. The lack of experience of our new members in Ohio and Texas in accessing managed care, of our local providers in coordinating managed care services for their patients, and our lack of experience in operating in these states, may also contribute to a higher than average medical care ratio. In the event we are unable to lower the medical care ratio of our Ohio and Texas HMOs within a reasonable time period, or if either the Ohio or Texas HMO requires a disproportionate investment of corporate energy and resources or is otherwise unsuccessful, their poor performance could detrimentally impact the financial performance of the Company as a whole. We face claims related to litigation which could result in substantial monetary damages. We are subject to a variety of legal actions, including medical malpractice actions, provider disputes, employment related disputes, and breach of contract actions. In the event we incur liability materially in excess of the amount for which we have insurance coverage, our profitability would suffer. In addition, our providers involved in medical care decisions are exposed to the risk of medical malpractice claims. Providers at the 19 primary care clinics we operate in California are employees of our California health plan. As a direct employer of physicians and ancillary medical personnel and as an operator of primary care clinics, our California plan is subject to liability for negligent acts, omissions, or injuries occurring at one of its clinics or caused by one of its employees. We maintain medical malpractice insurance for our clinics in the amount of $1 million per occurrence, and an annual aggregate limit of $3 million, errors and omissions insurance in the amount of $10 million per occurrence and in aggregate for each policy year, and such other lines of coverage as we believe are reasonable in light of our experience to date. However, given the significant amount of some medical malpractice awards and settlements, this insurance may not be sufficient or available at a reasonable cost to protect us from damage awards or other liabilities. Even if any claims brought against us were unsuccessful or without merit, we would have to defend ourselves against such claims. The defense of any such actions may be time-consuming and costly, and may distract our management’s attention. As a result, we may incur significant expenses and may be unable to effectively operate our business. Furthermore, claimants often sue managed care organizations for improper denials of or delays in care, and in some instances improper authorizations of care. Also, Congress and several state legislatures have considered legislation that would permit managed care organizations to be held liable for negligent treatment decisions or benefits coverage determinations. If this or similar legislation were enacted, claims of this nature could result in substantial damage awards against us and our providers that could exceed the limits of any applicable medical malpractice insurance coverage. Successful malpractice or tort claims asserted against us, our providers, or our employees could adversely affect our financial condition and profitability. We cannot predict the outcome of any lawsuit with certainty. While we currently have insurance coverage for some of the potential liabilities relating to litigation, other such liabilities may not be covered by insurance, the insurers could dispute coverage, or the amount of insurance could not be sufficient to cover the damages awarded. In addition, insurance coverage for all or certain types of liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future or the deductible on any such insurance coverage could be set at a level which would result in us effectively self-insuring cases against us. Although we have established reserves for litigation as we believe appropriate, we cannot assure you that our recorded reserves will be adequate to cover such costs. Therefore, the litigation to which we are subject could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows and could prompt us to change our operating procedures. 13 Table of Contents Reductions in Medicaid and SCHIP funding could substantially reduce our profitability. Substantially all of our revenues currently come from state Medicaid and SCHIP premiums. Under these programs, subject to actuarial soundness, the government payor typically determines premium and reimbursement levels. If the government payor reduces premium or reimbursement levels or increases them by less than the amount by which our costs increase, unlike a commercial plan we are unable to make offsetting adjustments through supplemental premiums or changes in our benefit plan. For instance, it is possible for a state to mandate an increase in the rates payable to the providers with which we contract without granting a corresponding increase in the premiums paid to us, as we have sometimes experienced in the past. Thus, any premium reduction or insufficient premium increase could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. The premium rates paid by each state to health plans like ours differ depending on a combination of factors, such as upper payment limits established by the federal and state governments, a member’s health status, age, gender, county or region, benefit mix, and member eligibility categories. Future Medicaid premium rate levels may be affected by continued government efforts to contain medical costs, or federal and state budgetary constraints. Changes in Medicaid funding could, for example, reduce the number of persons enrolled in or eligible for Medicaid, reduce the amount of reimbursement or payment levels by the federal or state governments, or increase our administrative or health benefit costs. Additionally, changes could eliminate coverage for certain benefits such as our pharmacy, behavioral health, vision, or other benefits. In some cases, changes in funding could be made retroactive. The federal government and all of the states in which we operate are presently considering proposals and legislation that would implement certain Medicaid reforms or redesigns, reduce reimbursement or payment levels, or reduce the number of persons eligible for Medicaid. Reductions in Medicaid payments at either the federal or state level could reduce our profitability if we are unable to reduce our expenses. In addition, government receivables are subject to government audit and negotiation, and government contracts are vulnerable to disagreements with the government. The final amounts we ultimately receive under government contracts may be different from the amounts we initially recognize in our financial statements. If our government contracts are not renewed or are terminated, our revenues could be materially reduced. Our contracts generally run for periods of from one year to four years, and may be successively extended by amendment for additional periods if the relevant state agency so elects. Our current contracts expire on various dates over the next several years. There is no guarantee that our contracts will be renewed or extended. For example, in the fall of 2006, we were informed that the contract of our Indiana HMO to provide Medicaid services would not be extended beyond its expiration date of December 31, 2006. Moreover, our contracts may be opened for bidding by competing healthcare providers. In addition, all of our contracts may be terminated for cause if we breach a material provision of the contract or violate relevant laws or regulations. Our contracts with the states are also subject to cancellation by the state in the event of unavailability of state or federal funding. In some jurisdictions, such cancellation may be immediate and in other jurisdictions a notice period is required. In addition, most contracts are terminable without cause. We may face increased competition as other plans (many with greater financial resources and greater name recognition) attempt to enter our markets through the contracting process. If we are unable to renew, successfully rebid, or compete for any of our government contracts, or if any of our contracts are terminated or renewed on less favorable terms, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. Any changes to the laws and regulations governing our business, or the interpretation and enforcement of those laws or regulations, could cause us to modify our operations and could negatively impact our operating results. Our business is extensively regulated by the federal government and the states in which we operate. The laws and regulations governing our operations are generally intended to benefit and protect health plan members 14 Table of Contents and providers rather than stockholders. The government agencies administering these laws and regulations have broad latitude in interpreting and applying them. These laws and regulations, along with the terms of our government contracts, regulate how we do business, what services we offer, and how we interact with members and the public. For instance, some states mandate minimum medical expense levels as a percentage of premium revenues. These laws and regulations, and their interpretations, are subject to frequent change. The interpretation of certain contract provisions by our governmental regulators may also change. Changes in existing laws or regulations, or their interpretations, or the enactment of new laws or regulations, could reduce our profitability by imposing additional capital requirements, increasing our liability, increasing our administrative and other costs, increasing mandated benefits, forcing us to restructure our relationships with providers, or requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems. Changes in the interpretation of our contracts could also reduce our profitability if we have detrimentally relied on a prior interpretation. We are subject to various routine and non-routine governmental reviews, audits, and investigations. Violation of the laws governing our operations, or changes in interpretations of those laws, could result in the imposition of civil or criminal penalties, the cancellation of our contracts to provide managed care services, the suspension or revocation of our licenses, and exclusion from participation in government sponsored health programs, including Medicaid and SCHIP. If we become subject to material fines or if other sanctions or other corrective actions were imposed upon us, we might suffer a substantial reduction in profitability, and might also lose one or more of our government contracts and as a result lose significant numbers of members and amounts of revenue. States may only mandate Medicaid enrollment into managed care under federal waivers or demonstrations. Waivers and programs under demonstrations are typically approved for multi-year periods and can be renewed on an ongoing basis if the state applies. We have no control over this renewal process. If a state does not renew its mandated program or the federal government denies the state’s application for renewal, our business would suffer as a result of a likely decrease in membership. The new Medicaid citizenship documentation requirements may adversely impact the enrollment levels of our health plans. American citizenship or legal immigration status has always been a requirement for Medicaid eligibility. However, beneficiaries could assert their status by simply checking a box on a form. The United States Department of Health and Human Services has issued guidelines for states to implement a new requirement, effective July 1, 2006, that persons applying for Medicaid document their citizenship. The new documentation requirement is outlined in Section 6036 of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 and is intended to ensure that Medicaid beneficiaries are United States citizens without imposing undue burdens on them or the states. The new rule requires actual documentary evidence before Medicaid eligibility is granted or renewed. The provision requires that a person provide both evidence of citizenship and identity. In many cases, a single document will be enough to establish both citizenship and identity, such as a passport. However, if secondary documentation is used, such as a birth certificate, the individual will also need evidence of his or her identity. Affidavits can only be used in rare circumstances. Additional types of documentation, such as school records, may be used for children. Once citizenship has been proven, it need not be documented again with each eligibility renewal unless later evidence raises a question. Current Medicaid beneficiaries should not lose benefits during the period in which they are undertaking a good-faith effort to provide documentation to the state. As with other Medicaid program requirements, states must implement an effective process for assuring compliance with documentation of citizenship in order to obtain federal matching funds, and effective compliance will be part of Medicaid program integrity monitoring. In particular, audit processes will track the extent to which states rely on lower categories of documentation, and on affidavits, with the expectation that such categories would be used relatively infrequently and less over time, as state processes and beneficiary documentation improves. 15 Table of Contents Because this rule is new, it is unclear what impact it will have on the enrollment levels of our various state HMOs. The new rule may result in the disenrollment of a material number of our members, thereby decreasing our premium revenues. As a result, this new proof of citizenship requirement could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our business depends on our information and medical management systems, and our inability to effectively integrate, manage, and keep secure our information and medical management systems could disrupt our operations. Our business is dependent on effective and secure information systems that assist us in, among other things, monitoring utilization and other cost factors, supporting our medical management techniques, processing provider claims, and providing data to our regulators. Our providers also depend upon our information systems for membership verifications, claims status, and other information. If we experience a reduction in the performance, reliability, or availability of our information and medical management systems, our operations and ability to produce timely and accurate reports could be adversely affected. In addition, if the licensor or vendor of any software which is integral to our operations were to become insolvent or otherwise fail to support the software sufficiently, our operations could be negatively affected. Our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading, and enhancement to meet our operational needs. Moreover, our acquisition activity requires transitions to or from, and the integration of, various information systems. We regularly upgrade and expand our information systems capabilities. If we experience difficulties with the transition to or from information systems or are unable to properly implement, maintain, or expand our system, we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions, loss of members, difficulty in attracting new members, regulatory problems, and increases in administrative expenses. Our business requires the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, or other events or developments could result in compromises or breaches of our security systems and client data stored in our information systems. Anyone who circumvents our security measures could misappropriate our confidential information or cause interruptions in services or operations. The Internet is a public network, and data is sent over this network from many sources. In the past, computer viruses or software programs that disable or impair computers have been distributed and have rapidly spread over the Internet. Computer viruses could be introduced into our systems, or those of our providers or regulators, which could disrupt our operations, or make our systems inaccessible to our providers or regulators. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. Because of the confidential health information we store and transmit, security breaches could expose us to a risk of regulatory action, litigation, possible liability and loss. Our security measures may be inadequate to prevent security breaches, and our business operations would be negatively impacted by cancellation of contracts and loss of members if they are not prevented. Difficulties in executing our acquisition strategy could adversely affect our business. The acquisitions of Medicaid contract rights and other health plans have accounted for a significant amount of our growth. Although we cannot predict with certainty our rate of growth as the result of acquisitions, we believe that acquisitions similar in nature to those we have historically executed will be important to our future growth strategy. Many of the other potential purchasers of these assets have greater financial resources than we have. Also, many of the sellers may insist on selling assets that we do not want, such as commercial lines of business, or may insist on transferring their liabilities to us as part of the sale of their companies or assets. Even if we identify suitable targets, we may be unable to complete acquisitions on terms favorable to us or obtain the necessary financing for these acquisitions. Further, to the extent we complete an acquisition, we may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits from such acquisition because of operational factors or difficulty in integrating the acquisition with our existing business. This may include the integration of: • additional employees who are not familiar with our operations, 16 Table of Contents • new provider networks, which may operate on terms different from our existing networks, • additional members, who may decide to transfer to other health care providers or health plans, • disparate information, claims processing, and record keeping systems, and • internal controls and accounting policies, including those which require the exercise of judgment and complex estimation processes, such as estimates of claims incurred but not reported, accounting for goodwill, intangible assets, stock-based compensation, and income tax matters. Also, we are generally required to obtain regulatory approval from one or more state agencies when making acquisitions. In the case of an acquisition of a business located in a state in which we do not already operate, we would be required to obtain the necessary licenses to operate in that state. In addition, although we may already operate in a state in which we acquire a new business, we will be required to obtain regulatory approval if, as a result of the acquisition, we will operate in an area of the state in which we did not operate previously. We may be unable to obtain the necessary governmental approvals or comply with these regulatory requirements in a timely manner, if at all. For all of the above reasons, we may not be able to consummate our proposed acquisitions as announced or to sustain our pattern of growth. Ineffective management of our growth may negatively affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Depending on acquisitions and other opportunities, we expect to continue to grow our membership and to expand into other markets. In fiscal year 2004, we had total premium revenue of $1,171 million. In fiscal year 2006, we had total premium revenue of $1,985 million, an increase of 70% in just two years. Continued rapid growth could place a significant strain on our management and on other resources. Our ability to manage our growth may depend on our ability to strengthen our management team and attract, train, and retain skilled employees, and our ability to implement and improve operational, financial, and management information systems on a timely basis. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, due to the initial substantial costs related to acquisitions, rapid growth could adversely affect our short-term profitability and liquidity. If we are unable to maintain good relations with the physicians, hospitals, and other providers with whom we contract, or if we are unable to enter into cost-effective contracts with such providers, our profitability could be adversely affected. We contract with physicians, hospitals, and other providers as a means to assure access to health care services for our members, to manage health care costs and utilization, and to better monitor the quality of care being delivered. In any particular market, providers could refuse to contract with us, demand higher payments, or take other actions which could result in higher health care costs, disruption to provider access for current members or to support growth, or difficulty in meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. In some markets, certain providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital organizations and some specialists, may have significant market positions or even monopolies. If these providers refuse to contract with us or utilize their market position to negotiate favorable contracts to themselves, our profitability in those areas could be adversely affected. Some providers that render services to our members are not contracted with our plans. In those cases, there is no pre-established understanding between the provider and the plan about the amount of compensation that is due to the provider. In some states, the amount of compensation is defined by law or regulation, but in most instances it is either not defined or it is established by a standard that is not clearly translatable into dollar terms. In such instances providers may believe they are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with the plan. The uncertainty of the amount to pay and the possibility of subsequent adjustment of the payment could adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Failure to attain profitability in any new start-up operations could negatively affect our results of operations. Start-up costs associated with a new business can be substantial. For example, in order to obtain a certificate of authority to operate as a health maintenance organization in most jurisdictions, we must first establish a provider network, have infrastructure and required systems in place, and demonstrate our ability to obtain a state contract and process claims. Often we are also required to contribute significant capital in order to fund mandated net worth requirements, performance bonds or escrows, or contingency guaranties. If we were unsuccessful in obtaining the certificate of authority, winning the bid to provide services, or attracting members in sufficient numbers to cover our costs, any new business of ours would fail. We also could be required by the state to continue to provide services for some period of time without sufficient revenue to cover our ongoing costs or to recover our significant start-up costs. Even if we are successful in establishing a profitable HMO in a new state, increasing membership, revenues, and medical costs will trigger increased mandated net worth requirements which could substantially exceed the net income generated by the HMO. Rapid growth in an existing state will also create increased net worth requirements. In such circumstances we may not be able to fund on a timely basis or at all the increased net worth requirements with our available cash resources. The expenses associated with starting up a health plan in a new state or expanding a health plan in an existing state could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We derive a majority of our premium revenues from operations in a small number of states. Operations in California, Michigan, New Mexico, Ohio, Utah, and Washington accounted for most of our premium revenues in 2006. If we were unable to continue to operate in any of those states or if our current operations in any portion of one of those states were significantly curtailed, our revenues could decrease materially. Our reliance on operations in a limited number of states could cause our revenue and profitability to change suddenly and unexpectedly depending on a loss of a material contract, legislative actions, changes in Medicaid eligibility methodologies, catastrophic claims, an epidemic or unexpected increase in utilization, general economic conditions, and similar factors in those states. Our inability to continue to operate in any of the states in which we currently operate would harm our business. We are subject to competition which negatively impacts our ability to increase penetration in the markets we serve. We operate in a highly competitive environment and in an industry that is currently subject to significant changes from business consolidations, new strategic alliances, and aggressive marketing practices by other managed care organizations. We compete for members principally on the basis of size, location, and quality of provider network, benefits supplied, quality of service, and reputation. A number of these competitive elements are partially dependent upon and can be positively affected by financial resources available to a health plan. Many other organizations with which we compete have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do, including large commercial health plans. For these reasons, we may be unable to grow our membership, or may lose members to other health plans. Our experience with Medicare members is limited. Our business strategy includes increasing the number of our members who are dually eligible under both the Medicaid and Medicare programs. While we have extensive experience with Medicaid members, our experience with Medicare members is more limited. The Medicare population has many differing characteristics and behavior patterns from the Medicaid population with which we are familiar. If we are unable to adapt to the differing needs of our Medicare members, our business strategy may be unsuccessful. 18 Table of Contents Restrictions and covenants in our credit facility may limit our ability to make certain acquisitions. In order to provide liquidity, we have a $180 million five-year senior secured credit facility that matures in March 2010. As of December 31, 2006, indebtedness of $45 million was outstanding under our credit facility. Our credit facility imposes numerous restrictions and covenants, including prescribed debt coverage ratios, net worth requirements, and acquisition limitations that restrict our financial and operating flexibility, including our ability to make certain acquisitions above specified values and declare dividends without lender approval. As a result of the restrictions and covenants imposed under our credit facility, our growth strategy may be negatively impacted by our inability to act with complete flexibility, or our inability to use our credit facility in the manner intended. If we are in default at a time when funds under the credit facility are required to finance an acquisition, or if a proposed acquisition does not satisfy the pro forma financial requirements under our credit facility, we may be unable to use the credit facility in the manner intended. In addition, if we were to draw down on our credit facility, or incur other additional debt in the future, it could have an adverse effect on our business and future operations. For example, it could: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce funds available to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, and other general operating requirements; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. Our ability to obtain any financing, whether through the issuance of new debt securities or otherwise, and the terms of any such financing are dependent on, among other things, our financial condition, financial market conditions within our industry and generally, credit ratings, and numerous other factors. There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance our credit facility and obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time, if at all. If we are unable to obtain financing on terms and within a time acceptable to us it could, in addition to other negative effects, have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, ability to compete, or ability to comply with regulatory requirements. We are dependent on our executive officers and other key employees. Our operations are highly dependent on the efforts of our executive officers. The loss of their leadership, knowledge, and experience could negatively impact our operations. Replacing many of our executive officers might be difficult or take an extended period of time because a limited number of individuals in the managed care industry have the breadth and depth of skills and experience necessary to operate and expand successfully a business such as ours. Our success is also dependent on our ability to hire and retain qualified management, technical, and medical personnel. We may be unsuccessful in recruiting and retaining such personnel which could negatively impact our operations. Negative publicity regarding the managed health care industry could adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products and services. Managed health care companies have received and continue to receive negative publicity reflecting the public perception of the industry. The managed health care industry has also recently experienced significant merger and acquisition activity, giving rise to speculation and uncertainty regarding the status of companies in our industry. Our marketing efforts may be affected by the amount of negative publicity to which the managed health care industry has been subject, as well as by speculation and uncertainty relating to merger and acquisition activity among companies in our industry. Speculation, uncertainty, or negative publicity about us, our industry, or our business could adversely affect our ability to market our services, require changes to our services, or stimulate additional legislation, regulation, review of industry practices, or private litigation that could adversely affect us. 19 Table of Contents A pandemic, such as a worldwide outbreak of a new influenza virus, could materially and adversely affect our ability to control health care costs. An outbreak of a pandemic disease, such as the H5N1 avian flu, could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. The impact of a flu pandemic on the United States would likely be substantial. Estimates of the contagion and mortality rate of any mutated avian flu virus that can be transmitted from human to human are highly speculative. A significant global outbreak of avian flu among humans could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition as a result of increased inpatient and outpatient hospital costs and the cost of anti-viral medication to treat the virus. Because our corporate headquarters and claims processing facilities are located in Southern California, our business operations may be significantly disrupted as a result of a major earthquake. Our corporate headquarters, centralized claims processing, finance and information technology support functions are located in Long Beach, California. Southern California is located along the San Andreas fault and is thus exposed to a statistically greater risk of a major earthquake than most other parts of the country. If a major earthquake were to strike the Los Angeles and Long Beach area, our claims processing and other corporate functions could be significantly impaired for a substantial period of time. Although we have established a disaster recovery and business resumption plan with back-up operating sites to be deployed in the case of such a major disruptive event, there can be no assurances that the business operations of all our health plans, including those that are remote from any such event, would not be substantially impacted by a major earthquake. The results of our operations could be negatively impacted by both upturns and downturns in general economic conditions. The number of persons eligible to receive Medicaid benefits has historically increased more rapidly during periods of rising unemployment, corresponding to less favorable general economic conditions. However, during such economic downturns, state and federal tax receipts could decrease, causing states to attempt to cut health care programs, benefits, and rates. If federal or state funding were decreased while our membership was increasing, our results of operations would be negatively affected. Conversely, the number of persons eligible to receive Medicaid benefits may grow more slowly or even decline if economic conditions improve. Therefore, improvements in general economic conditions may cause our membership levels and profitability to decrease, which could lead to decreases in our operating income. If state regulators do not approve payments of dividends and distributions by our subsidiaries, it may negatively affect our business strategy. We principally operate through our health plan subsidiaries. These subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations that limit the amount of dividends and distributions that they can pay to us without prior approval of, or notification to, state regulators. In California, our health plan may dividend, without notice to or approval of the California Department of Managed Health Care, amounts by which its tangible net equity exceeds 130% of the tangible net equity requirement. In Michigan, New Mexico, Ohio, Texas, Utah, and Washington, our health plans must give thirty days advance notice and the opportunity to disapprove “extraordinary” dividends to the respective state departments of insurance for amounts over the lesser of (a) ten percent of surplus or net worth at the prior year end or (b) the net income for the prior year. The discretion of the state regulators, if any, in approving or disapproving a dividend is not clearly defined. Health plans that declare non-extraordinary dividends must usually provide notice to the regulators ten or fifteen days in advance of the intended distribution date of the non-extraordinary dividend. The aggregate amounts our health plan subsidiaries could have paid us at December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004 without approval of the regulatory authorities were approximately $6.9 million, $4.3 million, and $27.9 million, respectively. If the regulators were to deny or significantly restrict our subsidiaries’ requests to pay dividends to us, the funds available to our company as a whole would be limited, which could harm our ability to implement our business strategy. For example, we could be hindered in our ability to make debt service payments on amounts drawn under our credit facility. 20 Table of Contents Unforeseen changes in regulations or pharmaceutical market conditions may impact our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations. A significant category of our health care costs relate to pharmaceutical products and services. Evolving regulations and state and federal mandates regarding coverage may impact the ability of our HMOs to continue to receive existing price discounts on pharmaceutical products for our members. Other factors affecting our pharmaceutical costs include, but are not limited to, the price of pharmaceuticals, geographic variation in utilization of new and existing pharmaceuticals, and changes in discounts. The unpredictable nature of these factors may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and stock price. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls over our financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our future testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 will continue to require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management time and effort. Moreover, if we are not able to continue to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NYSE, SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. Volatility of our stock price could adversely affect stockholders. Since our initial public offering in July 2003, the sales price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $20.00 to a high of $53.23. A number of factors will continue to influence the market price of our common stock, including: • state and federal budget decreases, • adverse publicity regarding health maintenance organizations and other managed care organizations, • government action regarding eligibility, • changes in government payment levels, • a change in control of Congress from the Republican party to the Democratic party, or vice versa, • changes in state mandatory programs, • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates, if any, of public market analysts, • announcements relating to our business or the business of our competitors, • conditions generally affecting the managed care industry or our provider networks, • the success of our operating or acquisition strategy, • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies, • the termination of our Medicaid or SCHIP contracts with state or county agencies, or subcontracts with other Medicaid managed care organizations that contract with such state or county agencies, 21 Table of Contents • regulatory or legislative change, and • general economic conditions, including inflation and unemployment rates. Our stock may not trade at the same levels as the stock of other health care companies and the market in general may not sustain its current prices. Also, if the trading market for our stock does not continue to develop, securities analysts may not initiate or maintain research coverage of our company and our shares, and this could further depress the market for our shares. Our directors and officers and members of the Molina family own a majority of our capital stock, decreasing the influence of other stockholders on stockholder decisions. Our executive officers and directors, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 20% of our capital stock, and members of the Molina family (some of whom are also officers or directors), in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 54% of our capital stock, either directly or in trusts of which members of the Molina family are beneficiaries. In some cases, members of the Molina family are trustees of the trusts. As a result, Molina family members, acting by themselves or together with our officers and directors, have the ability to significantly influence all matters submitted to stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors, amendments to our charter, and any merger, consolidation, or sale of substantially all of our assets. A significant concentration of share ownership can also adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors often discount the value of stock in companies that have controlling stockholders. Furthermore, the concentration of ownership in our company could delay, defer, or prevent a merger or consolidation, takeover, or other business combination that could be favorable to our stockholders. Finally, the interests and objectives of our controlling stockholders may be different from those of our company or our other stockholders, and our controlling stockholders may vote their common stock in a manner that may adversely affect our other stockholders. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire our company, which could inhibit stockholders from realizing a premium on their stock price. We are subject to the Delaware anti-takeover laws regulating corporate takeovers. These provisions may prohibit stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws also contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of our company that stockholders may consider favorable or beneficial. These provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include: • a staggered board of directors, so that it would take three successive annual meetings to replace all directors, • prohibition of stockholder action by written consent, and • advance notice requirements for the submission by stockholders of nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting. In addition, changes of control are often subject to state regulatory notification, and in some cases, prior approval. Our forecasts and other forward-looking statements are based on a variety of assumptions that are subject to significant uncertainties. Our performance may not be consistent with these forecasts and forward-looking statements. From time to time in press releases and otherwise, we may publish earnings guidance, forecasts, or other forward-looking statements regarding our future results, including estimated revenues, net earnings, and other 22 Table of Contents operating and financial metrics. Any forecast of our future performance reflects numerous assumptions. These assumptions are subject to significant uncertainties, and as a matter of course, any number of them may prove to be incorrect. For example, our earnings guidance issued on January 18, 2007 assumes that the membership of our Ohio HMO will grow during 2007 to approximately 160,000 members, an assumption which may prove to be inaccurate. Further, the achievement of any forecast depends on numerous risks and other factors, including those described in this report, many of which are beyond our control. As a result, we cannot assure that our performance will be consistent with any management forecasts or that the variation from such forecasts will not be material and adverse. You are cautioned not to base your entire analysis of our business and prospects upon isolated predictions, but instead are encouraged to utilize the entire publicly available mix of historical and forward-looking information, as well as other available information affecting us and our services, when evaluating our prospective results of operations. 23 Table of Contents SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION This report and the documents we incorporate by reference in this report contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, that we include in this report and in the documents we incorporate by reference in this report, may be deemed forward-looking statements for purposes of the Securities Act and the Securities Exchange Act. We use the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “project,” “should,” “will,” “would” and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words. We cannot guarantee that we actually will achieve the plans, intentions, or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements and, accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. There are a number of important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from the forward-looking statements that we make, including the factors discussed above and also the factors included in the documents we incorporate by reference in this report. We wish to caution readers that these factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements. In addition, those factors should be considered in conjunction with any discussion of our results of operations herein or in other period reports, as well as in conjunction with all of our press releases, presentations to securities analysts or investors, or other communications by us. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s analysis, judgment, belief, or expectation only as of the date thereof. Except as may be required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that arise after the date on which the forward-looking statement was made. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. 