ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company confronts. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to it or that it currently deems immaterial also may impair the Company's business operations and the implementation of the Plan. If any of the following risks actually occurs, the Company's business, financial condition, operating results and the implementation of the Plan could be materially adversely affected. Uncertainties Relating to the Bankruptcy Plan and the Limited Business Plan The Company has incurred and will continue to incur significant costs associated with the administration of the estate of Comdisco, Inc. and in completing the wind down of operations. The amount of these costs, which are being expensed as incurred, are expected to have a significant adverse affect on the results of operations and on the Company's cash position. The Company's post-bankruptcy business plan is limited to an orderly run-off or sale of its remaining assets. Pursuant to the Plan and restrictions contained in its certificate of incorporation, the Company is specifically prohibited from engaging in any business activities inconsistent with its limited business plan. This business plan is based on numerous assumptions including the anticipated future performance of the Company in running off its operations, the time frame for the run-off, general business and economic conditions, and other matters, many of which are beyond the control of the Company and some of which may not materialize. As a result, the Company's ability to effectively complete this business plan is inherently uncertain. In addition, unanticipated events and circumstances occurring subsequent to the date of this Annual Report may affect the actual financial results of the Company's operations. Uncertainties Relating to the Wind down of Operations The Company has reduced the size and complexity of its organizational and systems infrastructure concurrently with the monetization of its assets. The success of the Company's continuing wind down of operations and implementation of an Order entered by the Bankruptcy court authorizing the organizational systems infrastructure wind down is dependent on numerous factors, including the timing and amount of cash received from the monetization of its assets, the resolution of the remaining Disputed Claims, the ability of the Disbursing Agent to fulfill the positions of the previous Board of Directors and executive officers and the ability of the Company to effectively consolidate its management structure and maintain its operations with limited personnel. 9 Uncertainties in Collections and Recoveries The Company believes that its collections on leases in default and recoveries on accounts previously written off could provide future but diminishing cash flows. The amount and timing of such collections and recoveries are dependent upon many factors including the ability of the Company to recover and liquidate any of its collateral, any offsets or counterclaims that may be asserted against the Company and the ability of a lessee or debtor or its respective estate to pay the claim or any portion thereof. Some of these factors are beyond the control of the Company. The Company's Liquidity is Dependent on a Number of Factors The Company's liquidity generally depends on cash on hand and cash provided by operating activities. The Company's cash flow from operating activities is dependent on a number of variables, including, but not limited to, market conditions for the sale of equity securities, global economic and political conditions, control of operating costs and expenses and the ability of the Company to dispose or otherwise convert to cash its remaining assets. The Payment of Dividends and Distributions All funds generated from the Company's remaining asset portfolios are required by the Plan to be used to satisfy liabilities of the Company and, to the extent funds are available, to pay dividends on the Company's Common Stock and to make distributions with respect to the CDR's in the manner and priorities set forth in the Plan. The Company has material restrictions on its ability, and does not expect or intend, to make any significant investments in new or additional assets. Accordingly, the amount of funds potentially available to pay dividends on the Company's Common Stock and to make distributions with respect to the CDRs is limited to the funds (in excess of the Company's liabilities) that may be generated from the remaining asset. In addition, the Company does not have a significant number of remaining assets, and there is significant uncertainty around the timing of monetization for the remaining assets. Impact of Disallowance of Disputed Claims on the Company's Obligation To Make Payments in Respect of Contingent Distribution Rights Because the present value of distributions to certain former creditors of Comdisco, Inc. has reached the 100% threshold level of percentage recovery established pursuant to the Plan, holders of CDRs are entitled to receive payments from the Company equal to 37% of each dollar available to be distributed to Comdisco stakeholders in accordance with the Plan. All payments by the Company in respect of CDRs are made from the Company's available cash-on-hand and not from funds released from the Disputed Claims Reserve or litigation trust. The Company expects to maintain cash reserves sufficient to make any required payments on the CDRs. The Company's success in reducing the Disputed Claims Reserve through disallowance of Disputed Claims could have a significant negative impact on the cash available to be distributed to common shareholders. Impact of Reconsideration and/or Allowance of Newly Filed Claims, Late Filed Claims or Previously Disallowed Claims The reconsideration and/or allowance by the Bankruptcy court of newly filed claims, late filed claims, or previously disallowed claims, in full or in part, may negatively impact future distributions. Market Conditions Have Made It Difficult and May Continue to Make it Difficult for the Company To Timely Realize the Value of its Warrant and Equity Securities (collectively, "Equity Securities") Market conditions have adversely affected, and could adversely affect in the future, the opportunities for the acquisition/merger of the Internet-related, communications and other high technology and emerging growth companies that make up the substantial majority of the Company's Equity Securities. Additionally, the public market for high technology and other emerging growth companies is extremely volatile. Such volatility has adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, the ability of the Company to realize value from its Equity Securities. Exacerbating these conditions is the fact that some of the Equity Securities held by the Company are subject to lockup agreements restricting its ability to sell until several months after an initial public offering. Without an available liquidity event, the Company is unable to sell its Equity Securities. As a result, the Company, or Windspeed on behalf of the Company, may not be able to generate gains or receive proceeds from the sale of Equity Securities and the Company's business and financial results may suffer. Additionally, liquidation preferences may continue to be offered by companies in the Company's portfolio to parties willing to lend to such companies. The liquidation preferences have had, and could continue to have, an adverse impact on the value of the Company's Equity Securities. For those Equity Securities without a public trading market, the realizable value of the Company's Equity Securities could prove to be lower than the carrying value currently reflected in the financial statements. The estimated fair market value of the Company's equity securities was determined in consultation with Windspeed based on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, quoted trading levels for publicly-traded securities, last round valuation for privately held securities, industry and 10 company multiples, industry acceptance in the market place, liquidity discounts due to lock ups, estimated revenue, and customer, product and market share growth by the respective companies in the portfolio. Substantially all of these factors are outside the control of the Company and are subject to significant volatility. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to realize the estimated fair market value. Furthermore, the current estimated fair market value is subject to significant concentration risk, since as September 30, 2006 95 percent of the estimated fair market value of the entire portfolio is concentrated in 15 individual companies and approximately 68 percent of the estimated amount is in three individual companies. Impact of Interest Rates and Foreign Exchanges Rates Increases in interest rates would negatively impact the value of certain of the Company's assets and a strengthening of the US dollar would negatively impact the value of the Company's net foreign assets. Limited Public Market for Common Stock There is currently a limited public market for the Company's Common Stock. Holders of the Company's Common Stock may, therefore, have difficulty selling their Common Stock, should they decide to do so. In addition, there can be no assurances that such markets will continue or that any shares of Common Stock which may be purchased may be sold without incurring a loss. Any such market price of the Common Stock may not necessarily bear any relationship to the Company's book value, assets, past operating results, financial condition or any other established criteria of value, and may not be indicative of the market price for the Common Stock in the future. Further, the market price of the Common Stock may be volatile depending on a number of factors, including the status of the Company's business performance, its limited business purpose, industry dynamics, news announcements or changes in general economic conditions. The Company Faces a Number of Uncertainties Around the Settlement of Domestic and International Tax Positions. The Company continues to wind down its domestic and international operations. Prior to a subsidiary being dissolved, the Company may have to obtain tax clearances at the state level domestically and on an international level in the country in which the subsidiary was incorporated. The Company has estimated the amounts for such tax settlements; however, actual settlements could differ from such estimates and will be reflected as adjustments in future financial statements when probable and estimable. In conjunction with the wind down of its operations, the Company has outsourced the domestic and international tax functions to a third party service provider. Limited Public Market for Contingent Distribution Rights There is currently a limited public market for the Company's Contingent Distribution Rights. Holders of the Company's Contingent Distribution Rights may, therefore, have difficulty selling their Contingent Distribution Rights, should they decide to do so. In addition, there can be no assurances that such markets will continue or that any Contingent Distribution Rights which may be purchased may be sold without incurring a loss. Any such market price of the Contingent Distribution Rights may not necessarily bear any relationship to the Company's book value, assets, past operating results, financial condition or any other established criteria of value, and may not be indicative of the market price for the Contingent Distribution Rights in the future. Further, the market price of the Contingent Distribution Rights may be volatile depending on a number of factors, including the status of the Company's business performance, industry dynamics, news announcements or changes in general economic conditions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 