Item 1A. Risk Factors Before investing in any of our securities, you should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risks could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition and cause the trading price of our securities to decline. You could lose all or part of your investment. The headings used in this section are solely to aid the reader as to general categories of risks related to investing in the Company. Many of the risk factors listed apply to more than one category or the Company generally. Accordingly, the headings used in this section should not be construed as limiting in any manner the general applicability of any of the risk factors included in this section. Underwriting Risks As a property, agriculture and catastrophe insurer and reinsurer, we are particularly vulnerable to losses from catastrophes. Our property, agriculture and catastrophe insurance and reinsurance lines expose us to claims arising out of catastrophes. Catastrophes can be caused by various unpredictable events, including earthquakes, hurricanes, hailstorms, droughts, severe weather, floods, fires, tornadoes, volcano eruptions, explosions and other natural or man-made disasters. Many scientists believe that the earth’s atmospheric and oceanic temperatures are increasing and that, in recent years, changing climate conditions have increased the unpredictability, severity and frequency of natural disasters in certain parts of the world. The global geographic distribution of our business subjects us to catastrophe exposure for natural events occurring in a number of areas throughout the world, including, but not limited to, windstorms in the United Kingdom and continental Europe, hurricanes in Florida, the Gulf Coast and the Atlantic coast regions of the United States, typhoons and earthquakes in Japan, earthquakes in California and the Pacific Northwest and New Madrid region of the United States and drought, hail, tornado and flooding in the Midwestern United States. From time to time, we may have greater exposures in one or more of these geographic areas than our overall share of the worldwide market might suggest. Accordingly, when and if catastrophes occur in these areas, we may experience relatively more severe negative results from such events than our competitors may. In particular, the Company has historically had a relatively large percentage of its coverage exposures concentrated in the states of California and Florida. In addition, changing climate conditions, primarily rising global temperatures, may be increasing, or may in the future increase the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes, including weather events, and may create new types of catastrophe losses. We expect that increases in the values and concentrations of insured property will increase the severity of such occurrences in the future. In the event that we experience catastrophe losses, there is a possibility that our premiums will be inadequate to cover these risks. In addition, because accounting regulations do not permit insurers and reinsurers to reserve for such catastrophic events until they occur, claims from catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the estimation of reserves related to hurricanes can be affected by the inability to access portions of the affected areas, the complexity of factors contributing to the losses, legal and regulatory uncertainties and the nature of the information available to establish the reserves. Complex factors include but are not limited to: determining whether damage was caused by flooding versus wind; evaluating general liability and pollution exposures; estimating additional living expenses; the impact of demand surge; infrastructure disruption; fraud; the effect of mold damage; business interruption costs; and reinsurance collectability. The timing of a catastrophe’s occurrence, such as at or near the end of a reporting period, can also affect the information available to us in estimating reserves for that reporting period. The estimates related to catastrophes are adjusted as actual claims emerge and additional information becomes available. Our ability to write new business also could be adversely impacted. Although we attempt to manage our exposure to such events through the use of underwriting controls and the purchase of third-party reinsurance, catastrophic events are inherently unpredictable and the actual nature of such events when they occur could be more frequent or severe than contemplated in our pricing and risk management expectations. As a result, the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 14 Table of Contents As a property and casualty insurer and reinsurer, we could face losses from war, terrorism and political unrest. We may have substantial exposure to losses resulting from acts of war, acts of terrorism and political instability. These risks are inherently unpredictable, although recent events may lead to increased frequency and severity. It is difficult to predict their occurrence with statistical certainty or to estimate the amount of loss an occurrence will generate. Accordingly, it is possible that our loss reserves will be inadequate to cover these risks. We closely monitor the amount and types of coverage we provide for terrorism risk under insurance policies and reinsurance treaties. We often seek to exclude terrorism when we cannot reasonably evaluate the risk of loss or charge an appropriate premium for such risk. Even in cases where we have deliberately sought to exclude coverage, we may not be able to eliminate our exposure to terrorist acts, and thus it is possible that these acts will have a material adverse effect on us. The risks associated with property and casualty reinsurance underwriting could adversely affect us. Because we participate in property and casualty reinsurance markets, the success of our underwriting efforts depends, in part, upon the policies, procedures and expertise of the ceding companies making the original underwriting decisions. We face the risk that these ceding companies may fail to accurately assess the risks that they assume initially, which, in turn, may lead us to inaccurately assess the risks we assume. If we fail to establish and receive appropriate premium rates, we could face significant losses on these contracts. The terms of the Federal Multiple Peril Crop Insurance Program may change and adversely impact us. We are one of 16 companies that currently participate in the U.S. Federal Multi Peril Crop Insurance Program (“MPCI”) sponsored by the Risk Management Agency of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (the “RMA”). As a result of our acquisition of ARMtech in December of 2007, crop insurance premiums, which are primarily driven by MPCI, have become an increasingly larger portion of our business, totaling $567.5 million of gross premiums written in 2010, and representing 51.0% of the total gross premiums written in our Insurance segment in 2010. The RMA periodically reviews and proposes changes to the Standard Reinsurance Agreement (“SRA”) and such changes to the SRA could adversely affect the financial results of crop insurers such as ARMtech. As an agriculture insurer, we could face losses from commodity price volatility. A significant portion of our agriculture insurance business provides revenue protection to farmers for their expected crop revenues, which can be affected by changes in crop prices. We face the risk that significant losses could be incurred in the event of a decline in the applicable commodity prices prior to harvest. While this risk is partially mitigated by policyholder retentions, it is possible that large declines in the commodity prices of the major crops we insure, including corn, soybeans, cotton and wheat, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition if we are unable to cost effectively reinsure these risks or enter into applicable commodity price hedges. If actual renewals of our existing policies and contracts do not meet expectations, our gross premiums written in future years and our future results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our insurance policies and reinsurance contracts are generally for a one-year term. In our financial forecasting process, we make assumptions about the renewal of our prior year’s policies and contracts. If actual renewals do not meet expectations, our gross premiums written in future years and our future results of operations could be materially adversely affected. This risk is especially prevalent in the first quarter of each year when a large number of insurance and reinsurance contracts are subject to renewal. The ongoing development of our U.S.-based insurance operations is subject to increased risk from changing market conditions. Excess and surplus lines insurance is a substantial portion of the business written by our U.S.-based insurance operations. Excess and surplus lines insurance covers risks that are typically more complex and unusual than standard risks and require a high degree of specialized underwriting. As a result, excess and surplus lines risks do not often fit the underwriting criteria of standard insurance carriers. Our excess and surplus lines insurance business fills the insurance needs of businesses with unique characteristics and is generally considered higher risk than those in the standard market. If our underwriting staff inadequately judges and prices the risks associated with the business underwritten in the excess and surplus lines market, our financial results could be adversely impacted. 15 Table of Contents Further, the excess and surplus lines market is significantly affected by the conditions of the property and casualty insurance market in general. The impact of this cyclicality can be more pronounced in the excess and surplus market than in the standard insurance market. During times of hard market conditions (when market conditions are more favorable to insurers), as rates increase and coverage terms become more restrictive, business tends to move from the admitted market to the excess and surplus lines market and growth in the excess and surplus market can be significantly more rapid than growth in the standard insurance market. When soft market conditions are prevalent (when market conditions are less favorable to insurers), standard insurance carriers tend to loosen underwriting standards and expand market share by moving into business lines traditionally characterized as excess and surplus lines, exacerbating the effect of rate decreases. If we fail to manage the cyclical nature and volatility of the revenues and profit we generate in the excess and surplus lines market, our financial results could be adversely impacted. The failure of any of the loss limitation methods we employ could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or on our results of operations. We seek to limit our loss exposure by writing many of our insurance and reinsurance contracts on an excess of loss basis, adhering to maximum limitations on policies written in defined geographical zones, limiting program size for each client, establishing per risk and per occurrence limitations for each event, employing coverage restrictions and following prudent underwriting guidelines for each program written. In the case of proportional treaties, we seek per occurrence limitations or loss ratio caps to limit the impact of losses from any one event. Most of our direct liability insurance policies include maximum aggregate limitations. We also seek to limit our loss exposure through geographic diversification. Disputes relating to coverage and choice of legal forum may also arise. As a result, various provisions of our policies, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum, may not be enforceable in the manner we intend and some or all of our other loss limitation methods may prove to be ineffective. Underwriting is a matter of judgment, involving important assumptions about matters that are inherently unpredictable and beyond our control, and for which historical experience and probability analysis may not provide sufficient guidance. One or more future catastrophic or other events could result in claims that substantially exceed our expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our results of operations, possibly to the extent of eliminating our shareholders’ equity. We may be unable to purchase reinsurance and our net income could be reduced or we could incur a net loss in the event of an unusual loss experience. We purchase reinsurance if it is deemed prudent from a risk mitigation perspective or if it is expected to have a favorable cost/benefit relationship relative to our retained risk portfolio. Changes in the availability and cost of reinsurance, which are subject to market conditions that are outside of our control, may reduce to some extent our ability to use reinsurance to balance exposures across our reinsurance or insurance operations. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain our desired amounts of reinsurance. In addition, even if we are able to obtain such reinsurance, we may not be able to negotiate terms that we deem appropriate or acceptable or obtain such reinsurance from entities with satisfactory creditworthiness. We are also subject to credit risk with respect to our reinsurers because the transfer of risk to a reinsurer does not relieve us of our liability to our clients. If our reinsurance companies experience financial difficulties, they may be unable to pay us. In addition, reinsurers may be unwilling to pay us, even though they are able to do so. The failure of one or more of the our reinsurers to honor their obligations to us in a timely fashion would impact our cash flow and reduce our net income and, depending upon the amount of reinsurance we have purchased, could cause us to incur a significant loss. A decline in our financial strength ratings could affect our standing among brokers and customers and cause our premiums and earnings to decrease. Financial strength ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance and reinsurance companies. We currently maintain an A.M. Best financial strength rating of “A” (Excellent) with a stable outlook and an S&P financial strength rating of “A” (Strong) with a stable outlook. Because all of our ratings are subject to continual review, the retention of these ratings cannot be assured. If our ratings are reduced from their current level by A.M. Best or S&P, our competitive position in the insurance and reinsurance industry would suffer. Such a downgrade may have a material negative impact on our ability to expand our insurance and reinsurance portfolio and renew our existing insurance and reinsurance policies and agreements, require us to establish trusts or post letters of credit for ceding company clients, and could trigger provisions allowing some ceding company clients to terminate their reinsurance contracts with us on terms disadvantageous to us. In addition, a downgrade of our A.M. Best rating below “B++” (two levels below our current rating) would constitute an event of default under our bank credit facility. Each of the effects of a downgrade of our financial strength rating described above could make it more expensive or otherwise difficult for us to compete in certain business segments in which we would otherwise desire to operate. If this were to occur, we could suffer a material and adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations, and the market price for our securities, including any ordinary shares, could be materially and adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents It is possible that rating agencies may in the future heighten the level of scrutiny they apply when analyzing companies in our industry, may increase the frequency and scope of their reviews, may request additional information from the companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in their models for maintenance of certain rating levels. We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which could adversely affect our business. As with other companies in the financial services industry, our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without any notice. Profitability may be adversely impacted by inflation. The effects of inflation could cause the cost of claims from catastrophes or other events to rise in the future. Our reserve for losses and loss expenses includes assumptions about future payments for settlement of claims and claims handling expenses, such as medical treatments and litigation costs. To the extent inflation causes these costs to increase above reserves established for these claims, we will be required to increase our loss reserves with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is identified. Adverse changes to the economy in the countries in which we operate could lower the demand for our insurance and reinsurance products and could have a materially adverse effect on the profitability of our operations. Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, indirectly, the amount and profitability of our business. In an economic environment characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for insurance products could be adversely affected. Adverse changes in the economy could potentially lead our customers to have less need for insurance coverage, to cancel existing insurance policies, modify coverage or to not renew with us, and our premium revenue could be adversely affected. Challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our customers to pay premiums as they come due. Since we depend on a few brokers for a large portion of our revenues, loss of business provided by any one of them could adversely affect us. We market our insurance and reinsurance worldwide through insurance and reinsurance brokers. In the year ended December 31, 2010, our top three brokers represented approximately 54.2% of our net premiums written. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided by one or more of these brokers could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our reliance on brokers subjects us to their credit risk. In accordance with industry practice, we frequently pay amounts owed on claims under our insurance or reinsurance contracts to brokers, and these brokers, in turn, pay these amounts to the clients that have purchased insurance or reinsurance from us. If a broker fails to make such a payment, in a significant majority of business that we write, it is highly likely that we will be liable to the client for the deficiency because of local laws or contractual obligations, notwithstanding the broker’s obligation to make such payment. Likewise, when the client pays premiums for these policies to brokers for payment over to us, these premiums are considered to have been paid and, in most cases, the client will no longer be liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we have actually received the premiums. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with brokers around the world with respect to most of our insurance and reinsurance business. To date we have not experienced any losses related to such credit risks. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either broadening coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance or reinsurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. 17 Table of Contents Recent examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include: • larger settlements and jury awards for professionals and corporate directors and officers covered by professional liability and directors’ and officers’ liability insurance; • initial rollback of tort reform caps and other limitations in various states possibly increasing jury awards in medical malpractice, auto and other liability exposures; • a growing trend of plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers in purported class action litigations relating to claims-handling, insurance sales practices and other practices related to the conduct of our business; and • uncertainties associated with liability coverages related to sub-prime mortgage and general credit crisis exposures. The effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could harm our business. We operate in a highly competitive environment which could adversely impact our operating margins. The insurance and reinsurance industries are highly competitive. We compete with major U.S. and non-U.S. insurers and reinsurers, including other Bermuda-based insurers and reinsurers. Many of our competitors have greater financial, marketing and management resources. In addition, we may not be aware of other companies that may be planning to enter the segments of the insurance and reinsurance market in which we operate or of existing companies that may be planning to raise additional capital. Increasing competition could result in fewer submissions, lower premium rates and less favorable policy terms and conditions, which could have a material adverse impact on our growth and profitability. Further, insurance/risk-linked securities and derivative and other non-traditional risk transfer mechanisms and vehicles are being developed and offered by other parties, including non-insurance company entities, which could impact the demand for traditional insurance or reinsurance. A number of new, proposed or potential industry or legislative developments could further increase competition in our industry. New competition from these developments could cause the demand for insurance or reinsurance to fall or the expense of customer acquisition and retention to increase, either of which could have a material adverse affect on our growth and profitability. The historical cyclicality of the property and casualty reinsurance industry may cause fluctuations in our results. Historically, property and casualty insurers and reinsurers have experienced significant fluctuations in operating results due to competition, frequency of occurrence or severity of catastrophic events, levels of capacity, general economic conditions and other factors. Demand for insurance and reinsurance is influenced significantly by prevailing general economic conditions and, in the case of reinsurance, the underwriting results of primary property and casualty insurers. The supply of insurance and reinsurance is related to prevailing prices, the levels of insured losses and the levels of industry surplus which, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments being earned in the insurance and reinsurance industry. As a result, the insurance and reinsurance business historically has been a cyclical industry characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted favorable premium levels. The continued strengthening of the industry’s surplus position in 2010 and the establishment of new market entrants within the past five years has increased the supply of insurance and reinsurance and has caused insurance and reinsurance prices in many of the markets in which we participate to decrease since 2006. Any of these factors could lead to a significant reduction in premium rates, less favorable policy terms and fewer submissions for insurance and reinsurance coverage. In addition to these considerations, changes in the frequency and severity of losses suffered by insureds and cedants may affect the cycles of the insurance and reinsurance business significantly. To the extent these trends continue, our financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents Investment Risks We are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads and foreign currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. We are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, market volatility, the performance of the economy in general, the performance of the specific issuers included in our portfolio and other factors outside our control. Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in interest rates. A rise in interest rates, in the absence of other countervailing changes, will increase the net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolio. In the event that our estimate of our liability-cash flow profile is inaccurate, we may be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to cover the liability. Although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to adequately mitigate the interest rate risk of our assets relative to our liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in credit spreads. If issuer credit spreads widen or increase significantly over an extended period of time, it may result in a net unrealized loss position in our investment portfolio. If credit spreads tighten significantly, it will reduce net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed maturity investments. Our primary foreign currency exchange risks are related to net income from foreign operations, non—U.S. dollar denominated investments and investments in foreign subsidiaries. In general, the weakening of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar will unfavorably affect net income from foreign operations, the value of non-U.S. dollar denominated investments, and investments in foreign subsidiaries. A portion of our investment portfolio is allocated to Other Investments which we expect to have different risk characteristics than our investments in traditional fixed maturity investments and short-term investments, which in turn could result in a material adverse change to our investment performance, and accordingly adversely affect our financial results. A portion of our investment portfolio is allocated to Other Investments, both alternative funds and high yield loan funds, which we expect to have different risk characteristics than our investments in traditional fixed income securities and short term investments. Our alternative funds include investments in funds which invest in senior secured bank debt and high yield securities, distressed debt, distressed real estate, derivatives and equity long/short strategies and constituted 4.4% of the carrying value of our cash and invested assets as of December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, we are committed to potential future capital calls in the aggregate amount of approximately $11.7 million. Our high yield loan funds constituted 1.7% of the carrying value of our cash and invested assets as of December 31, 2010. The amount and timing of net investment income from such Other Investments tends to be uneven as a result of the performance of the underlying investments. The timing of distributions from these investments, which depends on particular events relating to the underlying investments, as well as the funds’ schedules for making distributions and their needs for cash, can be difficult to predict. As a result, the amount of net investment income that we record from these investments can vary substantially from quarter to quarter. Many of the investments are subject to restrictions on redemptions and sales that limit our ability to liquidate these investments in the short-term. These investments expose us to market risks including interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, equity price risk and credit risk. In addition, we typically do not hold the underlying securities of these investments in our custody accounts. As a result, we generally do not have the ability to quantify the risks associated with these investments in the same manner for which we have for our fixed income portfolio. The performance of these investments is also dependent on the individual investment managers and their investment strategies. It is possible that the investment managers will leave and/or the investment strategies will become ineffective. Any of the foregoing could result in a material adverse change to our investment performance, and accordingly adversely affect our financial results. 19 Table of Contents Losses due to defaults by others, including issuers of investment securities (which include structured securities such as commercial mortgage-backed securities and residential mortgage-backed securities or high yielding bonds), and reinsurance counterparties could adversely affect the value of our investments, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Issuers or borrowers whose securities or loans we hold, customers, reinsurers, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries and guarantors may default on the principal and interest they owe to us due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure, fraud or other reasons. We are also subject to the risk that the underlying collateral within loan-backed securities, including mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, may default on principal and interest payments causing an adverse change in cash flows paid to us. At December 31, 2010, the fixed income portfolio of $5.2 billion represented 84.1% of our total cash and invested assets. The occurrence of a major economic downturn, acts of corporate malfeasance, widening risk spreads, or other events that adversely impact the issuers, guarantors or underlying collateral of these securities could cause the value of our fixed income portfolio and our net income to decline and the default rate of the fixed maturity investments to increase. A ratings downgrade affecting issuers or guarantors of particular securities, or similar trends that could worsen the credit quality of issuers, such as the corporate issuers of securities in our investment portfolio, could also have a similar effect. With economic uncertainty, credit quality of issuers or guarantors could be adversely affected. Similarly, a ratings downgrade affecting a loan-backed security we hold could indicate the credit quality of that security has deteriorated. Any event reducing the value of these securities other than on a temporary basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Levels of write down or impairment are impacted by our assessment of the intent and ability to hold securities which have declined in value and whether such declines in the Company’s value below amortized cost are due to credit related factors. We have also engaged third party investment managers to provide us with investment advisory and management services. It is possible that the investment strategies employed by these third party investment managers may become ineffective or that such managers will fail to follow our investment guidelines, which could result in a material adverse change to our investment performance, and accordingly adversely affect our financial results. Our participation in a securities lending program subjects us to potential liquidity and other risks. We participate in a securities lending program whereby securities, including fixed income investments, are loaned by us to third parties. We retain all economic interest in the securities we lend, retain the earnings and cash flows associated with the loaned securities and receive a fee from the borrower for the temporary use of the securities. We require collateral in the form of cash, government securities and/or letters of credit at a rate of 102% — 105% of the market value of the loaned securities. We invest such collateral in other securities, primarily overnight repurchase agreements. Returns of loaned securities by the third parties would require us to return the collateral associated with such loaned securities. In addition, in some cases, the maturity of the securities held as invested collateral (i.e., securities that we have purchased with collateral received from the third parties) may exceed the term of the related securities on loan and the market value may fall below the amount received as collateral and invested. If we are required to return significant amounts of collateral on short notice and we are forced to sell securities to meet the return obligation, we may have difficulty selling such collateral that is invested in securities in a timely manner, be forced to sell securities in a volatile or illiquid market for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize under normal market conditions, or both. In addition, under stressful capital market and economic conditions, liquidity broadly deteriorates, which may further restrict our ability to sell securities. The determination of the other-than-temporary impairments taken on our investments is highly subjective and could materially impact our financial position or results of operations. The determination of the amount of other-than-temporary impairments taken on our investments varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class as well as an analysis on a security by security basis. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects impairments in operations as such evaluations are revised. During periods of market disruption including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities, for example mortgage-backed securities, if trading becomes less frequent or market data becomes less observable. In addition, there may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid. In such cases, more securities may fall to Level 3 and thus require more subjectivity and management judgment. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation as well as valuation methods, which are more sophisticated or require greater estimation thereby resulting in values which may differ materially from the value at which the investments may be ultimately sold. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 20 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that our management has accurately assessed the level of impairments taken in our financial statements. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken in the future, which could materially impact our financial position or results of operations. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments. Some of our investments are relatively illiquid and are in asset classes that may experience significant market valuation fluctuations. We hold certain investments that may lack liquidity, such as our alternative funds and high yield loan funds. If we require significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of normal cash requirements or are required to post or return collateral in connection with our investment portfolio or securities lending activities, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize, or both. The reported value of our relatively illiquid types of investments and, at times, our high quality, generally liquid asset classes, do not necessarily reflect the lowest current market price for the asset. If we were forced to sell certain of our assets in the current market, there can be no assurance that we will be able to sell them for the prices at which we have recorded them, and we may be forced to sell them at significantly lower prices. Our investment liquidity and investment performance may affect our financial assets and ability to conduct business. We derive a significant portion of our income from our invested assets. As a result, our operating results depend in part on the performance of our investment portfolio, which consists primarily of fixed maturity investments. Our income derived from our invested assets (including net realized gains (losses) on investment sales and net impairment losses recognised in earnings) was $218.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Our operating results are subject to a variety of investment risks, including risks relating to general economic conditions, market volatility, interest rate fluctuations, liquidity risk and credit and default risk. In addition, we are subject to pre-payment or reinvestment risk as well as restrictions on redemptions or sale of certain of our investments. With respect to our liabilities, we strive to structure our investments in a manner that recognizes their cash flow profile and our potential liquidity needs. In that regard, we attempt to correlate the maturity and duration of our investment portfolio to our liability profile. However, if our liquidity needs or liability profile unexpectedly changes, we may not be successful in continuing to structure our investment portfolio in that manner. The market value of our fixed income portfolio will be subject to fluctuations depending on changes in various factors, including prevailing interest rates. To the extent that we are unsuccessful in correlating our investment portfolio with our liabilities, we may be forced to liquidate our investments at times and prices that are not optimal, which could have a material adverse effect on the performance of our investment portfolio. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Although we take measures to attempt to manage the risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to mitigate interest rate sensitivity effectively. A significant increase in interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our book value. Liquidity and Capital Risks Our holding company structure and certain regulatory and other constraints affect our ability to pay dividends and make other payments. Endurance Holdings is a holding company and, as such, has no substantial operations of its own. Dividends and other permitted distributions from our operating subsidiaries are expected to be Endurance Holdings’ primary source of funds to meet ongoing cash requirements, including debt service payments and other expenses, and to pay dividends, if any, to shareholders. Bermuda law and regulations, including, but not limited to, Bermuda insurance regulations, restrict the declaration and payment of dividends and the making of distributions by Endurance Bermuda unless certain regulatory requirements are met. The inability of Endurance Bermuda to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable Endurance Holdings to meet its cash requirements at the holding company level could have a material adverse effect on its operations. In addition, Endurance Holdings’ U.S. and U.K. operating subsidiaries are subject to significant regulatory restrictions limiting their ability to declare and pay dividends. We therefore do not expect to receive material dividends from these operating subsidiaries for the foreseeable future. 21 Table of Contents Endurance Holdings is subject to Bermuda regulatory constraints that will affect its ability to pay dividends on its ordinary shares, class A shares and 7.75% Non-Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series A (the “Series A Preferred Shares”), and to make other payments. Under the Bermuda Companies Act 1981, as amended (the “Companies Act”), Endurance Holdings may declare or pay a dividend or make a distribution out of retained earnings or contributed surplus only if it has reasonable grounds for believing that it is, or would after the payment be, able to pay its liabilities as they become due and if the realizable value of its assets would thereby not be less than the aggregate of its liabilities and issued share capital and share premium accounts. In addition, the terms of our credit facility prohibit Endurance Holdings from declaring or paying any dividends if a default or event of default has occurred and is continuing at the time of such declaration or payment or would result from such declaration or payment. In addition, the terms of the Series A Preferred Shares prohibit the declaration or payment of dividends on our ordinary shares unless dividends on the Series A Preferred Shares have been declared and paid. Preference shares, including the Series A Preferred Shares, may also not be redeemed if as a result of the redemption, our issued share capital would be reduced below the minimum capital specified in the memorandum of association of Endurance Holdings. We could incur substantial losses and reduced liquidity if one of the financial institutions we use in our operations, including those institutions that participate in our credit facility, fails. We have exposure to counterparties in many different industries and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, hedge funds and other investment funds and other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty. In addition, with respect to secured transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the obligation. Due to the uncertainty associated with casualty business, current reinsurance recoverables are subject to the credit risk of the reinsurers. We maintain cash balances, including restricted cash held in premium trust accounts, significantly in excess of the FDIC insurance limits at various depository institutions. We also maintain cash balances in foreign banks and institutions and rely upon funding commitments from several banks and financial institutions that participate in our credit facility. If one or more of these financial institutions were to fail, our ability to access cash balances or draw down on our credit facility may be temporarily or permanently limited, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. The cost of reinsurance security arrangements may materially impact our margins. As a Bermuda reinsurer, Endurance Bermuda is required to post collateral security with respect to reinsurance liabilities it assumes from ceding insurers domiciled in the U.S. The posting of collateral security is generally required in order for U.S. ceding companies to obtain credit on their U.S. statutory financial statements with respect to reinsurance liabilities ceded to unlicensed or unaccredited reinsurers, such as Endurance Bermuda. Under applicable statutory provisions, the security arrangements may be in the form of letters of credit, reinsurance trusts maintained by third-party trustees or funds-withheld arrangements whereby the trusteed assets are held by the ceding company. Endurance Bermuda has the ability to issue up to $1.175 billion in letters of credit under our letter of credit and revolving credit facility that expires on May 8, 2012. If this facility is not sufficient or if the Company is unable to renew this facility or is unable to arrange for other types of security on commercially acceptable terms, the ability of Endurance Bermuda to provide reinsurance to U.S.-based clients may be severely limited. Security arrangements may subject our assets to security interests and/or require that a portion of our assets be pledged to, or otherwise held by, third parties. Although the investment income derived from our assets while held in trust typically accrues to our benefit, the investment of these assets is governed by the investment regulations of the state of domicile of the ceding insurer, which may be more restrictive than the investment regulations applicable to us under Bermuda law. The restrictions may result in lower investment yields on these assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. 22 Table of Contents Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to underwrite new business successfully, to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses, and to maintain our current rating agency ratings. We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses and without sufficient liquidity, we will be forced to curtail our operations, and our business will suffer. The principal sources of our liquidity are our invested assets. Sources of liquidity in normal markets also include a variety of short- and long-term instruments, including repurchase agreements, commercial paper, medium- and long-term debt, junior subordinated debt securities, capital securities and shareholders’ equity. In the event current resources do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large investment losses or if the level of our business activity decreases due to a market downturn. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. Our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business, most significantly our insurance operations. Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities; satisfy statutory capital requirements; generate fee income and market-related revenue to meet liquidity needs; and access the capital necessary to grow our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter tenor securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our shareholders could result, and in any case such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our already outstanding securities. In the case of debt financings, our credit spreads have widened since we previously issued debt securities, which could lead to higher interest costs on new debt. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets and an inability to obtain adequate capital. Our failure to comply with restrictive covenants contained in the indentures governing our senior notes or our current or future credit facility could trigger prepayment obligations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The indentures governing our senior notes contain covenants that impose restrictions on us and certain of our subsidiaries with respect to, among other things, the incurrence of liens and the disposition of capital stock of these subsidiaries. In addition, our credit facility requires us and/or certain of our subsidiaries to comply with certain covenants, including the maintenance of a minimum consolidated net tangible worth and restrictions on the payment of dividends. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default under the indentures or our credit facility, which, if not cured or waived, could result in us being required to repay the notes or any amounts outstanding under the credit facility prior to maturity. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Legal and Regulatory Risks Recent or future legislation may decrease the demand for our property catastrophe reinsurance products and adversely affect our business and results of operations. It is also possible that U.S states, particularly those with Atlantic or Gulf Coast exposures, may enact new or expanded legislation establishing further state involvement in providing or governing the insurance or reinsurance of catastrophe exposed risks, or may otherwise enact legislation, which would further diminish aggregate private market demand for our products. Alternatively, legislation adversely impacting the private markets could be enacted on a regional or at the federal level. Moreover, we believe that numerous modeled potential catastrophes could exceed the actual or politically acceptable bonded capacity of one or more of the catastrophe funds established by U.S. states, which could lead either to a severe dislocation or the necessity of Federal intervention in the markets of one or more of those states, either of which would adversely impact the private insurance and reinsurance industry. 23 Table of Contents The regulatory system under which we operate, and potential changes thereto, including heightened scrutiny of issues and practices in the insurance industry could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations or accreditations, or may be able to do so only at great cost. In addition, we may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, the wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance or reinsurance companies or holding companies. Failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate exemptions under any applicable laws could result in restrictions on our ability to do business in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate and fines and other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The laws and regulations under which we operate, such as the regulations governing our insurance rates and forms, the U.S. multiple peril crop insurance program and the purchase of reinsurance by property insurers in Florida, could be revised in a manner materially adverse to the manner in which we conduct our business. The insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework continues to be subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions, including the U.S. and various states within the U.S. Certain government authorities, including state officials in Florida, New York and Connecticut, have from time to time investigated a number of issues and practices within the insurance industry. It is possible such scrutiny could include us and it is also possible that these investigations or related regulatory developments could mandate or otherwise give rise to changes in industry practices in a fashion that increases our costs or requires us to alter how we conduct our business. In addition, if our Bermuda insurance or reinsurance operations become subject to the insurance laws of any state in the U.S., we could face inquiries or challenges to the future operations of these companies. Although surplus lines business is generally less regulated than the admitted market, the regulation of surplus lines insurance may undergo changes in the future. Federal and/or state measures may be introduced and promulgated that could result in increased oversight and regulation of surplus lines insurance. Additionally, some recent and pending cases in Florida and California courts have raised potentially significant questions regarding surplus lines insurance in those states such as whether surplus lines insurers will be subject to policy form content, filing and approval requirements or additional taxes. These cases also could foreshadow more extensive oversight of surplus lines insurance by other jurisdictions. Endurance American and Endurance Risk Solutions write insurance on an admitted basis within the U.S. and are subject to extensive regulation under state statutes which confer regulatory, supervisory and administrative powers on state insurance commissioners. Such regulation generally is designed to protect policyholders rather than investors or shareholders of the insurer. Our current or future business strategy could cause one or more of our currently unregulated non-insurance subsidiaries to become subject to some form of regulation. Any failure to comply with applicable laws could result in the imposition of significant restrictions on our ability to do business, and could also result in fines and other sanctions, any or all of which could adversely affect our financial results and operations. We could be required to allocate considerable time and resources to comply with any new or additional regulatory requirements and any such requirements may impact the operations of our insurance and non-insurance subsidiaries and ultimately could impact our financial condition as well. In addition, we could be adversely affected if a regulatory authority believed we had failed to comply with applicable law or regulation. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) may adversely impact our business. The U.S. Congress and the current administration have made, or called for consideration of, several additional proposals relating to a variety of issues with respect to financial regulation reform, including regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market, the establishment of a single-state system of licensure for U.S. and foreign reinsurers, regulation of executive compensation and others. One of those initiatives, the Dodd-Frank Act, was signed into law by President Obama on July 21, 2010. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the United States and establishes a Federal Insurance Office under the U.S. Treasury Department to monitor all aspects of the insurance industry and of lines of business other than certain health insurance, certain long-term care insurance and crop insurance. The director of the Federal Insurance Office will have the ability to recommend that an insurance company or an insurance holding company be subject to heightened prudential standards. The Dodd-Frank Act also provides for the pre-emption of state laws in certain instances involving the regulation of reinsurance and other limited insurance matters and established the federal Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (the “BCFP”) which will require the BCFP and other federal agencies to implement many new rules. At this time, it is not possible to predict with any degree of certainty whether any other proposed legislation, rules or regulatory changes will be adopted or what impact, if any, the Dodd-Frank or any other such legislation, rules or changes could have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Solvency II could adversely impact our financial results and operations. Solvency II, a European Union directive concerning the capital adequacy, risk management and regulatory reporting for insurers, which was adopted by the European Parliament in April of 2009, may adversely affect our (re)insurance businesses. Implementation of Solvency II by the European Commission is expected to take effect January 1, 2013 in the European Union Member States, and will replace the current solvency requirements. Implementation of Solvency II will require us to utilize a significant amount of resources to ensure compliance. In addition, the measures implementing Solvency II are currently subject to a consultation process and are not expected to be finalized until late 2011; consequently, our implementation plans are based on our current understanding of the Solvency II requirements, which may change. The European Union is in the process of considering the Solvency II equivalence of Bermuda’s insurance regulatory and supervisory regime. The European Union equivalence assessment considers whether Bermuda’s regulatory regime provides a similar level of policyholder protection as provided under Solvency II. A finding that Bermuda’s insurance regulatory regime is not equivalent to the European Union’s Solvency II could have an adverse effect on our reinsurance operations in the European Union and on our group solvency calculations. Such a finding could also have adverse indirect commercial impacts on our operations. We are monitoring the ongoing legislative and regulatory steps following adoption of Solvency II. The principles, standards and requirements of Solvency II may also, directly or indirectly, impact the future supervision of additional operating subsidiaries of ours. 24 Table of Contents Operational Risks Changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements may materially impact our reported financial results. Unanticipated developments in accounting practices may require us to incur considerable additional expenses to comply with such developments, particularly if it is required to prepare information relating to prior periods for comparative purposes or to apply the new requirements retroactively. The impact of changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements cannot be predicted but may affect the calculation of net income, net equity, and other relevant financial statement line items. For example, the current proposal for the convergence of U.S. GAAP with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) may require the Company to prepare financial statements in accordance with IFRS for the year ended December 31, 2015, including comparative information also prepared under IFRS for the two previous years. Also, recent proposals from U.S. and international standard setters have indicated a possible move away from the current insurance accounting models toward a more “present value” based model which could introduce significant volatility in the earnings of insurance industry participants and significant changes in financial statement disclosures. Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period and may not be indicative of our long-term prospects. Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period. These fluctuations result from a variety of factors, including the seasonality of the reinsurance and insurance business, the volume and mix of reinsurance and insurance products that we write, loss experience on our reinsurance and insurance liabilities, the performance of our investment portfolio and our ability to assess and integrate our risk management strategy effectively. In particular, we seek to underwrite products and make investments to achieve long-term results. As a result, our short-term results of operations may not be indicative of our long-term prospects. If actual claims exceed our reserve for losses and loss expenses, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our success depends upon our ability to accurately assess the risks associated with the businesses that we insure or reinsure. We establish loss reserves to cover our estimated liability for the payment of all losses and loss expenses incurred with respect to premiums earned on the policies that we write. Loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Rather, loss reserves are estimates of what we expect the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost. These estimates are based upon actuarial and statistical projections and on our assessment of currently available data, as well as estimates of future trends in claims severity and frequency, judicial theories of liability and other factors. Loss reserve estimates are refined continually in an ongoing process as experience develops and claims are reported and settled. Establishing an appropriate level of loss reserves is an inherently uncertain process. Moreover, these uncertainties are greater for companies like us than for those with a longer operating history because we do not yet have an extensive loss history. Because of this uncertainty, it is possible that our reserves at any given time will prove inadequate. To the extent we determine that actual losses and loss expenses exceed our expectations and loss reserves recorded in our financial statements, we will be required to increase our reserve for losses and loss expenses. This could cause a material reduction in our profitability and capital. We may be adversely affected by foreign currency fluctuations. We have made a significant investment in the capitalization of Endurance U.K., which is denominated in British Sterling. In addition, we enter into reinsurance and insurance contracts where we are obligated to pay losses in currencies other than U.S. dollars. For the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 12.5% of our gross premiums were written in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. A portion of our cash and cash equivalents, investments and loss reserves are also denominated in non-U.S. currencies. The majority of our operating foreign currency assets and liabilities are denominated in Euros, British Sterling, Canadian Dollars, Japanese Yen and Australian Dollars. We may, from time to time, experience losses from fluctuations in the values of these and other non-U.S. currencies, which could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. We periodically buy and sell currencies or investment securities denominated in non-U.S. dollars in an attempt to match our non-U.S. dollar assets to our related non-U.S. dollar liabilities. We currently have no currency hedges in place but may implement hedges in the future. As part of our asset-liability matching strategy, we also consider the use of hedges when we become aware of probable significant losses that will be paid in non-U.S. currencies. However, it is possible that we will not successfully match our exposures or structure the hedges to effectively manage these risks. 25 Table of Contents Acquisitions or strategic investments that we made or may make could turn out to be unsuccessful. As part of our strategy, we have pursued and may continue to pursue growth through acquisitions and/or strategic investments in new businesses. The negotiation of potential acquisitions or strategic investments as well as the integration of an acquired business or new personnel could result in a substantial diversion of management resources. Successful integration will depend on, among other things, our ability to effectively integrate acquired businesses or new personnel into our existing risk management techniques, our ability to effectively manage any regulatory issues created by our entry into new markets and geographic locations, our ability to retain key personnel and other operational and economic factors. There can be no assurance that the integration of acquired business or new personnel will be successful or that the business acquired will prove to be profitable or sustainable. The failure to integrate successfully or to manage the challenges presented by the integration process may adversely impact our financial results. Acquisitions could involve numerous additional risks such as potential losses from unanticipated litigation or levels of claims and inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs. Our ability to manage our growth through acquisitions or strategic investments will depend, in part, on our success in addressing these risks. Any failure by us to effectively implement our acquisitions or strategic investment strategies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Operational risks, including systems or human failures, are inherent in business, including ours. We are subject to operational risks including fraud, employee errors, failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization, failure to comply with regulatory requirements or obligations under our agreements, information technology failures, or external events. Losses from these risks may occur from time to time and may be significant. As our business and operations grow more complex, we are exposed to more risk in these areas. Our modeling, underwriting and information technology systems are critical to our success. Moreover, our proprietary technology and application systems have been an important part of our underwriting strategy and our ability to compete successfully. We have also licensed certain systems and data from third parties. We cannot be certain that we will have access to these, or comparable, service providers, or that our information technology or application systems will continue to operate as intended. While we have implemented disaster recovery and other business continuity plans, a defect or failure in our internal controls or information technology systems could result in reduced or delayed revenue growth, higher than expected losses, management distraction, or harm to our operations and/or our reputation. We believe appropriate controls and mitigation procedures are in place to prevent significant risk of defect in our internal controls and information technology systems, but internal controls provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance as to the absence of errors or irregularities and any ineffectiveness of such controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business. Since we are dependent on key executives, the loss of any of these executives or our inability to retain other key personnel could adversely affect our business. Our success substantially depends upon our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and upon the ability of our senior management and other key employees to implement our business strategy. We believe there are only a limited number of available qualified executives in the business lines in which we compete. We rely substantially upon the services of David S. Cash, Chief Executive Officer, and William M. Jewett, President. We believe we have been successful in attracting and retaining key personnel since our inception. The loss of any of their services or the services of other members of our management team or the inability to attract and retain other talented personnel could impede the further implementation of our business strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not currently maintain key man life insurance policies with respect to any of our employees. Our business could be adversely affected by Bermuda employment restrictions. We will need to continue to hire employees to work in Bermuda. Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians (other than spouses of Bermudians) may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without an appropriate governmental work permit. Work permits may be granted or extended by the Bermuda government upon showing that, after proper public advertisement in most cases, no Bermudian (or spouse of a Bermudian) is available who meets the minimum standard requirements for the advertised position. Current Bermuda law limits the duration of work permits to six years, with certain exemptions for key employees. All of our 33 Bermuda-based professional employees who require work permits, including Mr. Jewett, have been granted permits by the Bermuda government. The terms of such permits usually range from three to five years at the time of grant depending on the individual. It is possible that we could lose the services of one or more of our key employees if we are unable to obtain or renew their work permits, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 26 Table of Contents Corporate Risks There are provisions in our charter documents that may reduce or increase the voting rights of our ordinary shares. The bye-laws of Endurance Holdings generally provide that any shareholder owning, directly, indirectly or, in the case of any U.S. person, by attribution, outstanding ordinary shares possessing more than 9.5% of the aggregate voting power of our ordinary shares will have their voting rights reduced so that they may not exercise more than 9.5% of the voting rights conferred by our ordinary shares. Under these provisions, certain shareholders may have their voting rights limited to less than one vote per share, while other shareholders may have voting rights in excess of one vote per share. Moreover, these provisions could have the effect of reducing the votes of certain shareholders who would not otherwise be subject to the 9.5% limitation by virtue of their direct share ownership. The bye-laws of Endurance Holdings provide that shareholders will be notified of their voting interests prior to any vote to be taken by the shareholders. As a result of any reallocation of votes, your voting rights might increase above 5% of the aggregate voting power of the outstanding ordinary shares, thereby possibly resulting in your becoming a reporting person subject to Schedule 13D or 13G filing requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). In addition, the reallocation of your votes could result in your becoming subject to filing requirements under Section 16 of the Exchange Act. We also have the authority to request information from any shareholder for the purpose of determining whether a shareholder’s voting rights are to be reallocated pursuant to the bye-laws. If a shareholder fails to respond to a request for information from us or submits incomplete or inaccurate information (after a reasonable cure period) in response to a request, we may, in our reasonable discretion, reduce or eliminate the shareholder’s voting rights. Provisions of Endurance Holdings’ bye-laws may restrict the ability to transfer shares of Endurance Holdings. Endurance Holdings’ Board of Directors may decline to register a transfer of any ordinary shares if the relevant instrument of transfer (if any) is in favor of five persons or more jointly or is not properly executed, the transferred shares are not fully paid shares or if the transferor fails to comply with all applicable laws and regulations governing the transfer. A shareholder may be required to sell its shares of Endurance. The bye-laws of Endurance Holdings provide that we have the option, but not the obligation, to require a shareholder to sell its ordinary shares for their fair market value to us, to other shareholders or to third parties if we determine, based on the written advice of legal counsel, that failure to exercise our option would result in non-de minimis adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequences to us or certain U.S. persons as to which the shares held by such shareholder constitute controlled shares. In the latter case, our right to require a shareholder to sell its ordinary shares to us will be limited to the purchase of a number of ordinary shares that will permit avoidance of those adverse tax consequences. A shareholder may be required to indemnify us for any tax liability that results from the acts of that shareholder. The bye-laws of Endurance Holdings provide certain protections against adverse tax consequences to us resulting from laws that apply to the shareholders of Endurance Holdings. If a shareholder’s death or non-payment of any tax or duty payable by the shareholder, or any other act or thing involving the shareholder, causes any adverse tax consequences to us (i) the shareholder (or his executor or administrator) is required to indemnify us against any tax liability that we incur as a result, (ii) we will have a lien on any dividends or any other distributions payable to the shareholder by us to the extent of the tax liability and (iii) if any amounts not covered by our lien on dividends and distributions are owed to us by the shareholder as a result of our tax liability, we have the right to refuse to register any transfer of the shareholder’s shares. 27 Table of Contents There are regulatory limitations on the ownership and transfer of our ordinary shares. State laws in the United States and the United Kingdom require prior notices or regulatory agency approval of changes in control of an insurer or its holding company. The insurance laws of the domiciliary jurisdiction provide that no corporation or other person (except in certain jurisdictions an authorized insurer) may acquire control of a domestic insurance or reinsurance company unless it has given notice and obtained prior written approval of the appropriate regulatory agency. Any purchaser of 10% or more of our ordinary shares could become subject to such regulations and could be required to file certain notices and reports with the insurance commissioners of the domiciliary jurisdictions of our operating companies. U.S. persons who own our ordinary shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests than U.S. persons who are shareholders of a U.S. corporation. The Companies Act, which applies to Endurance Holdings and Endurance Bermuda, differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. These differences include the manner in which directors must disclose transactions in which they have an interest, the rights of shareholders to bring class action and derivative lawsuits and the scope of indemnification available to directors and officers. Anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws could impede an attempt to replace or remove our directors, which could diminish the value of our ordinary shares. Endurance Holdings’ bye-laws contain provisions that may entrench directors and make it more difficult for shareholders to replace directors even if the shareholders consider it beneficial to do so. In addition, these provisions could delay or prevent a change of control that a shareholder might consider favorable. Even in the absence of an attempt to effect a change in management or a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our ordinary shares if they are viewed as discouraging changes in management and takeover attempts in the future. It may be difficult to enforce service of process and enforcement of judgments against us and our officers and directors. Endurance Holdings is a Bermuda company and certain of its officers and directors are residents of jurisdictions outside the United States. A substantial portion of its assets and its officers and directors, at any one time, are or may be located in jurisdictions outside the United States. It may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States on our directors and officers who reside outside the United States or to enforce against us or our directors and officers judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. There is no treaty in force between the United States and Bermuda providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. As a result, whether a United States judgment would be enforceable in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers depends on whether the U.S. court that entered the judgment is recognized by the Bermuda court as having jurisdiction over us or our directors and officers, as determined by reference to Bermuda conflict of law rules. In addition to and irrespective of jurisdictional issues, the Bermuda courts will not enforce a United States federal securities law that is either penal or contrary to Bermuda public policy. An action brought pursuant to a public or penal law, the purpose of which is the enforcement of a sanction, power or right at the instance of the state in its sovereign capacity, will not be entertained by a Bermuda court. Consequently, certain remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including certain remedies under U.S. federal securities laws, may not be available under Bermuda law or enforceable in a Bermuda court, as they may be contrary to Bermuda public policy. Further, no claim may be brought in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers in the first instance for violation of U.S. federal securities laws because these laws have no extraterritorial jurisdiction under Bermuda law and do not have force of law in Bermuda. A Bermuda court may, however, impose civil liability on us or our directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda law. 28 Table of Contents Taxation Risks We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after March 28, 2016, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, of Bermuda, has given Endurance Holdings and Endurance Bermuda an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would “impose tax computed on profits or income or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition” any such tax will not be applicable to Endurance Holdings, Endurance Bermuda or any of their respective operations, shares, debentures or other obligations until March 28, 2016. The government of Bermuda has announced its intent to extend the protection afforded under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966 to 2035. However, the extension has not yet been enacted into law and there can be no assurance that it will be enacted into law. Accordingly, it is possible that after March 28, 2016 we may be subject to Bermuda taxes. We and our subsidiaries may be subject to U.S. tax which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Endurance Holdings and Endurance Bermuda are Bermuda companies and Endurance U.K. is an English company. Endurance Holdings, Endurance Bermuda and Endurance U.K. each intend to operate in such a manner that none of these companies will be deemed to be engaged in the conduct of a trade or business within the United States. Nevertheless, because definitive identification of activities which constitute being engaged in a trade or business in the United States is not provided by the Internal Revenue Code (“Code”), regulations or court decisions, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) might successfully contend that any of Endurance Holdings, Endurance Bermuda and/or Endurance U.K. are/is engaged in a trade or business in the United States. If Endurance Holdings, Endurance Bermuda and/or Endurance U.K. were/was engaged in a trade or business in the United States, and if Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda was to qualify for benefits under the applicable income tax treaty with the United States, but such trade or business was attributable to a “permanent establishment” in the United States (or in the case of Endurance Bermuda, with respect to investment income, arguably even if such income was not attributable to a “permanent establishment”), Endurance Holdings, Endurance U.K. and/or Endurance Bermuda would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates on the income that is effectively connected with the U.S. trade or business, plus an additional 30% “branch profits” tax in certain circumstances, in which case our financial condition and results of operations and your investment could be materially adversely affected. Holders of Endurance Holdings’ ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares who own 10% or more of our voting power may be subject to taxation under the “controlled foreign corporation” (“CFC”) rules. Certain “10% U.S. Shareholders” of a foreign corporation that is considered a “controlled foreign corporation” (a “CFC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes must include in gross income such 10% U.S. shareholder’s pro rata share of the CFC’s “subpart F income,” even if the subpart F income is not distributed. See “Material Tax Considerations — Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations — United States Taxation of Holders of Ordinary Shares and Series A Preferred Shares — Shareholders Who Are U.S. Persons —Classification of Endurance Holdings, Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda as a Controlled Foreign Corporation.” Due to the dispersion of Endurance Holdings’ share ownership among holders, its bye-law provisions that impose limitations on the concentration of voting power of its shares entitled to vote and authorize Endurance Holdings to purchase such shares under certain circumstances, and other factors, no U.S. Person that owns shares in Endurance Holdings directly or indirectly through foreign entities should be subject to treatment as a 10% U.S. Shareholder of a CFC. It is possible, however, that the IRS could challenge the effectiveness of these provisions and that a court could sustain such a challenge. Accordingly, investors should consult their tax advisors regarding the application of the CFC rules to an investment in Endurance Holdings. U.S. Persons who hold ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares may be subject to U.S. income taxation on their pro rata share of our “related party insurance income” (“RPII”). The CFC rules apply to certain insurance and reinsurance companies that earn RPII. If the RPII rules were to apply to Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda, a U.S. Person who owns ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares of Endurance Holdings directly or indirectly through foreign entities on the last day of the taxable year would be required to include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes the shareholder’s pro rata share of Endurance U.K.’s or Endurance Bermuda’s RPII for the entire taxable year, determined as if such RPII were distributed proportionately to such U.S. shareholders at that date regardless of whether such income is distributed. In addition, any RPII that is includible in the income of a U.S. tax-exempt organization would be treated as unrelated business taxable income. Although Endurance U.K. and Endurance Bermuda intend to generally operate in a manner so as to qualify for certain exceptions to the RPII rules, there can be no assurance that these exceptions will be available. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that U.S. Persons who own ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares will not be required to recognize gross income inclusions attributable to RPII. See “Material Tax Considerations — Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations — United States Taxation of Holders of Ordinary Shares and Series A Preferred Shares— Shareholders Who Are U.S. Persons — RPII Companies; RPII Exceptions.” 29 Table of Contents The RPII rules provide that if a shareholder who is a U.S. Person disposes of shares in a foreign insurance corporation that has RPII and in which U.S. Persons collectively own 25% or more of the shares, any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as ordinary income to the extent of the shareholder’s share of the corporation’s undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the shareholder owned the shares (whether or not such earnings and profits are attributable to RPII). In addition, such a shareholder will be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned by the shareholder. These rules should not apply to dispositions of ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares because Endurance Holdings will not itself be directly engaged in the insurance business. The RPII provisions, however, have not been interpreted by the courts or the U.S. Treasury Department, and regulations interpreting the RPII provisions of the Code exist only in proposed form. Accordingly, the IRS might interpret the proposed regulations in a different manner and the applicable proposed regulations may be promulgated in final form in a manner that would cause these rules to apply to dispositions of our ordinary shares and Series A Preferred Shares. See “Material Tax Considerations — Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations — United States Taxation of Holders of Ordinary Shares and Series A Preferred Shares — Shareholders Who Are U.S. Persons — Disposition of Ordinary Shares and Series A Preferred Shares; Uncertainty as to the Application of RPII.” U.S. Persons who hold ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares will be subject to adverse tax consequences if we are considered a “passive foreign investment company” (a “PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We believe that we should not be considered a PFIC for U.S. federal income purposes for the year ended December 31, 2010. Moreover, we do not expect to conduct our activities in a manner that would cause us to become a PFIC in the future. However, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge this position or that a court will not sustain such challenge. Accordingly, it is possible that we could be deemed a PFIC by the IRS or a court for the 2010 year or any future year. If we were considered a PFIC, it could have material adverse tax consequences for an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation, including subjecting the investor to a greater tax liability than might otherwise apply or subjecting the investor to tax on amounts in advance of when tax would otherwise be imposed. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC provisions to an insurance company. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying these rules may be forthcoming. We cannot predict what impact, if any, such guidance would have on a shareholder that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation. See “Material Tax Considerations — Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations — United States Taxation of Holders of Ordinary Shares and Series A Preferred Shares — Shareholders Who Are U.S. Persons — Passive Foreign Investment Companies.” Changes to U.S. Tax Legislation could have an adverse impact on us or our shareholders The U.S. Congress and the U.S. President Obama’s Administration have discussed from time-to-time proposals intended to eliminate certain perceived tax advantages of companies (including insurance and reinsurance companies) that have legal domiciles outside the United States but have certain U.S. connections. In particular, U.S. President Obama’s budget for fiscal year 2012 includes proposals that would deny a U.S. non-life insurance company a deduction for certain non-taxed reinsurance premiums paid to affiliates and defer interest deductions related to certain foreign source income. Congress, during prior sessions, has also introduced similar legislation, as well as other proposals relating to tax-haven jurisdictions, cross-border transactions, intangible products, and a proposal that would treat a foreign corporation that is primarily managed and controlled in the United States as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We cannot be certain if, when or in what form such legislation may be enacted and whether such legislation, if enacted, would have retroactive effect. Enactment of some versions of such legislation as well as other changes in U.S. tax laws, regulations and interpretations of such legislation or tax law changes to address these issues could adversely affect the results of our operations and financial condition and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 30 Table of Contents The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (“OECD”) and the European Union are considering measures that might increase our taxes and reduce our net income. The OECD has published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. In the OECD’s report dated April 18, 2002 and updated as of June 2004 and November 2005 via a “Global Forum,” Bermuda was not listed as an uncooperative tax haven jurisdiction because it had previously committed to eliminate harmful tax practices and to embrace international tax standards for transparency, exchange of information and the elimination of any aspects of the regimes for financial and other services that attract business with no substantial domestic activity. Bermuda was included in the most recently revised OECD white list with other countries that have substantially implemented the OECD’s international tax standards. We are not able to predict what changes will arise from the commitment or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes. REGULATORY MATTERS General The business of insurance and reinsurance is regulated in most countries, although the degree and type of regulation varies significantly from one jurisdiction to another. Reinsurers are generally subject to less direct regulation than primary insurers. Bermuda The Insurance Act 1978 of Bermuda and related regulations, as amended (the “Insurance Act”), regulates the insurance business of Endurance Bermuda and provides that no person may carry on any insurance business in or from within Bermuda unless registered as an insurer by the Bermuda Monetary Authority (“BMA”) under the Insurance Act. Endurance Bermuda is registered as a Class 4 insurer by the BMA. As a holding company, Endurance Holdings is not subject to Bermuda insurance regulations. Insurance, as well as reinsurance, is regulated under the Insurance Act. The BMA, in deciding whether to grant registration, has broad discretion to act as it thinks fit in the public interest. The continued registration of an applicant as an insurer is subject to it complying with the terms of its registration and such other conditions as the BMA may impose from time to time. An Insurance Advisory Committee appointed by the Bermuda Minister of Finance (the “Minister”) advises the BMA on matters connected with the discharge of the BMA’s functions. Sub-committees of the Insurance Advisory Committee supervise and review the law and practice of insurance in Bermuda, including reviews of accounting and administrative procedures. The day-to-day supervision of insurers is the responsibility of the BMA. The BMA utilizes a risk based approach when it comes to licensing and supervising insurance companies in Bermuda. As part of the BMA’s risk based system, an assessment of the inherent risks within each particular class of insurer is utilized in the first instance to determine the limitations and specific requirements which may be imposed. Thereafter, the BMA keeps its analysis of relative risk within individual institutions under review on an ongoing basis, including through the scrutiny of regular audited statutory financial statements, and, as appropriate, meeting with senior management during onsite visits. The initial meetings with senior management and any proposed onsite visit will primarily focus upon companies that are licensed as Class 3, Class 3A, Class 3B and Class 4 insurers. The BMA has also adopted guidance notes (the “Guidance Notes”) in order to ensure those operating in Bermuda have a good understanding of the nature of the requirements of, and the BMA’s approach in implementing, the Insurance Act. The Insurance Act imposes solvency and liquidity standards and auditing and reporting requirements on Bermuda insurance companies and grants the BMA powers to supervise, investigate, require information and the production of documents and intervene in the affairs of insurance companies. Certain significant aspects of the Bermuda insurance regulatory framework are set forth below. In July 2008, the Insurance Amendment Act 2008 (the “Amendment Act”) was promulgated, which among other things, created a new supervisory framework for Bermuda insurers by establishing new risk-based regulatory capital adequacy and solvency margin requirements, including the calculation of a Class 4 insurer’s Enhanced Capital Requirement (“ECR”) as further discussed below. 31 Table of Contents The BMA continues to make amendments to the Insurance Act with a view to enhancing Bermuda’s insurance regime and ensuring that Bermuda remains at the vanguard of international standards of insurance. Of particular importance and significance to Endurance Bermuda are the following recent amendments promulgated in 2010: • A group wide supervisory regime was introduced with the principle purpose of enabling the BMA to form a comprehensive view of the overall exposure of an insurance group; • The scope of the BMA’s powers was extended allowing the BMA to make rules in relation to prudential standards to include insurance reserves and eligible capital requirements; and • New notification requirements were introduced in respect of a change of shareholder controller, changes to controllers and officers and provisions for insurers to notify the BMA of any proposed material change in their business. Additionally, the Insurance Code of Conduct (the "Insurance Code") became operative on 1 July 2010. Insurers have until 1 July 2011 to comply with the Insurance Code. Classification of Insurers The Insurance Act distinguishes between insurers carrying on long-term business and insurers carrying on general business. There are six classifications of insurers carrying on general business, with Class 4 insurers subject to the strictest regulation. Endurance Bermuda, which is incorporated to carry on general insurance and reinsurance business, is registered as a Class 4 insurer in Bermuda and is regulated as such under the Insurance Act. Endurance Bermuda is not licensed to carry on long-term business. Cancellation of Insurer’s Registration An insurer’s registration may be canceled by the Supervisor of Insurance of the BMA on certain grounds specified in the Insurance Act, including failure of the insurer to comply with its obligations under the Insurance Act or if, in the opinion of the BMA after consultation with the Insurance Advisory Committee, the insurer has not been carrying on business in accordance with sound insurance principles. Principal Representative An insurer is required to maintain a principal office in Bermuda and to appoint and maintain a principal representative in Bermuda. For the purpose of the Insurance Act, Endurance Bermuda’s principal office is its executive offices in Pembroke, Bermuda. Michael J. McGuire has been appointed by the Board of Directors as Endurance Bermuda’s principal representative and has been approved by the BMA. Without a reason acceptable to the BMA, an insurer may not terminate the appointment of its principal representative, and the principal representative may not cease to act as such, unless 30 days’ notice in writing to BMA is given of the intention to do so. A principal representative shall forthwith notify the BMA, in such a manner as it may direct, (a) on his reaching a view that there is a likelihood of the insurer for which he acts becoming insolvent, for instance the failure by the insurer to comply substantially with a condition imposed upon the insurer by the BMA relating to a solvency margin or liquidity or other ratio would be a reportable “event”; (b) on its coming to his knowledge, or his having reason to believe, that an event to which the applicable section of the Insurance Act applies has occurred, under the Amendment Act these events now include (i) circumstances where a Class 4 insurer undergoes a material change to the nature of the business it underwrites; and (ii) a significant loss which is likely to render the insurer unable to comply with its ECR. Within 14 days of such notification, the principal representative shall furnish the BMA with a report in writing setting out all the particulars of the case that are available to him. Independent Approved Auditor Every registered insurer must appoint an independent auditor who will audit and report annually on the statutory financial statements and the statutory financial return of the insurer, both of which, in the case of Endurance Bermuda, are required to be filed annually with the BMA. Endurance Bermuda’s independent auditor must be approved by the BMA and may be the same person or firm that audits Endurance Holdings’ consolidated financial statements and reports for presentation to its shareholders. Loss Reserve Specialist As a registered Class 4 insurer, Endurance Bermuda is required to submit an opinion of its approved loss reserve specialist with its statutory financial return in respect of its losses and loss expenses provisions. The loss reserve specialist, who will normally be a qualified property and casualty actuary, must be approved by the BMA. Michael E. Angelina, Chief Actuary and Chief Risk Officer for the Company, has been appointed by our Board of Directors and has been approved by the BMA to act as Endurance Bermuda’s loss reserve specialist. 32 Table of Contents Statutory and GAAP Financial Statements An insurer must prepare and file annual statutory financial statements with the BMA within four months from the end of the financial year to which they relate. The Insurance Act prescribes rules for the preparation and substance of these statutory financial statements (which include, in statutory form, a balance sheet, an income statement, a statement of capital and surplus and notes thereto). The insurer is required to give detailed information and analyses regarding premiums, claims, reinsurance and investments. The new accounts regime applicable to Class 4 insurers includes (i) a distinct methodology and new format to be applied when preparing and reporting the statutory balance sheet and statutory income statements for Class 4 insurers and (ii) accompanying explanatory notes to be added and instructions affecting each statutory statement. The most significant aspect of the amended Regulations in relation to the statutory balance sheet of Class 4 insurers is the reporting obligation to detail, on a line-by-line basis, specific asset and liability classes, as well as the requirement to identify and distinguish between what is or is not attributable to affiliates of the Class 4 insurer. Class 4 insurers are required to prepare and file with the BMA audited annual financial statements prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) (which applies in Bermuda, U.K., U.S., or such other GAAP as the BMA may recognize) or International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”). The audited financial statements are to be submitted within four months from the end of the financial year to which they relate or, if the Class 4 insurer makes an application to the BMA, such longer period as may be allowed by the BMA but no longer than seven months from the end of the financial year to which they relate. The BMA publishes on its website each such Class 4 insurer’s GAAP or IFRS audited financial statements. In addition to the audited GAAP or IFRS financial statements, Class 4 insurers are required to file with the BMA statutory financial statements which are not prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and are distinct from the financial statements prepared for presentation to the insurer’s shareholders under the Companies Act, which financial statements, in the case of the Company, will be prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. As a general business insurer, Endurance Bermuda is required to submit the annual statutory financial statements as part of the annual statutory financial return. The statutory financial statements and the statutory financial return do not form part of the public records maintained by the BMA. Annual Statutory Financial Return Endurance Bermuda is required to file with the BMA a statutory financial return no later than four months after its financial year end (unless specifically extended upon application to the BMA). The statutory financial return for a Class 4 insurer includes, among other matters, a report of the approved independent auditor on the statutory financial statements of the insurer, solvency certificates, the statutory financial statements, the opinion of the loss reserve specialist and a schedule of reinsurance ceded. The solvency certificates must be signed by the principal representative and at least two directors of the insurer certifying that the minimum solvency margin, as well as the minimum liquidity ratio, has been met and whether the insurer complied with the conditions attached to its certificate of registration. The independent auditor is required to state whether, in its opinion, it was reasonable for the directors to make these certifications and whether the declaration of the statutory ratios complies with the requirements of the Insurance Act. If an insurer’s accounts have been audited for any purpose other than compliance with the Insurance Act, a statement to that effect must be filed with the statutory financial return. Enhanced Capital Requirement, Minimum Solvency Margin and Restrictions on Dividends and Distributions Bermuda’s risk-based regulatory capital adequacy and solvency margin regime termed the Bermuda Solvency Capital Requirement (“BSCR”) provides a risk-based capital model as a tool to assist the BMA both in measuring risk and in determining appropriate levels of capitalization. BSCR employs a standard mathematical model that correlates the risk underwritten by Bermuda insurers to the capital that is dedicated to their business. The framework that has been developed, applies a standard measurement format to the risk associated with an insurer’s assets, liabilities and premiums, including a formula to take account of the catastrophe risk exposure. Where the insurer believes that its own internal model for measuring risk and determining appropriate levels of capital better reflects the inherent risk of its business, it may apply to the BMA for approval to use its internal capital model in substitution for the BSCR model. The BMA may approve an insurer’s internal model provided certain conditions have been established and may revoke approval of an internal model in the event that the conditions are no longer met or where it feels that the revocation is appropriate. The BMA will review the internal model regularly to confirm that the model continues to meet the conditions. 33 Table of Contents In order to minimise the risk of a shortfall in capital arising from an unexpected adverse deviation, the BMA seeks that insurers operate at or above a threshold capital level (termed the Target Capital Level (“TCL”)), which exceeds the BSCR or approved internal model minimum amounts. The BMA has introduced prudential standards in relation to the ECR and Capital and Solvency Return (“CSR”). The ECR is determined using the BSCR or an approved internal model, provided that at all times the ECR must be an amount equal to, or exceeding the minimum margin of solvency. The CSR is the return setting out the insurers risk management practises and other information used by the insurer to calculate its approved internal model ECR. The new capital requirements require Class 4 insurers to hold available statutory capital and surplus equal to or exceeding ECR and set TCL at 120% of ECR. The BMA also has a degree of discretion enabling it to impose ECR on insurers in particular cases, for instance where an insurer falls below the TCL. In those cases, the new risk-based capital model should be supplemented by a requirement for the affected insurers to conduct certain stress and scenario testing in order to assess their potential vulnerability to defined extreme events. Where the results of scenario and stress testing indicated potential capital vulnerability, the BMA would be able to require a higher solvency ‘cushion’ by increasing the 120% TCL figure. In circumstances where an insurer has failed to comply with an ECR given by the BMA in respect of that insurer, such insurer is prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends until the failure is rectified and the insurer is obliged to (i) provide the BMA, within fourteen days of the failure, with a written report as to why the failure occurred and remedial steps to be taken; and (ii) within forty-five days of the failure to provide the BMA with unaudited interim financial statements. In addition, the unaudited interim financial statements must be accompanied by the opinion of the loss reserve specialist, a general business solvency certificate in respect of the unaudited financials and a CSR reflecting an ECR prepared using post-failure data. Underlying the risk-based solvency capital regime described above is the minimum solvency margin test set out in the Insurance Returns and Solvency Amendment Regulations 1980 (as amended). While it must calculate its ECR annually by reference to either the BSCR or an approved internal model, a Class 4 insurer such as Endurance Bermuda must also ensure that, at all times, its ECR is at least equal to the minimum solvency margin for a Class 4 insurer in respect of its general business, which is the greater of: • $100,000,000; • 50% of net premiums written (being gross premiums written less any reinsurance premiums ceded (not exceeding 25% of gross premiums written)); and • 15% of net loss and loss expense provisions and other general business insurance reserves. In addition, under the Insurance Act, Class 4 insurers are prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends of more than 25% of its total statutory capital and surplus, as shown on its previous financial year statutory balance sheet, unless at least seven days before payment of the dividends it files with the BMA an affidavit that it will continue to meet its required solvency margins. Endurance Bermuda as a Class 4 insurer must obtain the BMA’s prior approval before reducing its total statutory capital, as shown on its previous financial year statutory balance sheet, by 15% or more. Furthermore, under the Companies Act, Endurance Holdings and Endurance Bermuda may only declare or pay a dividend if Endurance Holdings or Endurance Bermuda, as the case may be, has no reasonable grounds for believing that it is, or would after the payment be, unable to pay its liabilities as they become due, or if the realizable value of its assets would not be less than the aggregate of its liabilities and its issued share capital and share premium accounts. 34 Table of Contents Minimum Liquidity Ratio The Insurance Act provides a minimum liquidity ratio for general business insurers, like Endurance Bermuda. An insurer engaged in general business is required to maintain the value of its relevant assets at not less than 75% of the amount of its relevant liabilities. Relevant assets include, but are not limited to, cash and time deposits, quoted investments, unquoted bonds and debentures, first liens on real estate, investment income due and accrued, accounts and premiums receivable, reinsurance balances receivable and funds held by ceding reinsurers. There are certain categories of assets which, unless specifically permitted by the BMA, do not automatically qualify as relevant assets, such as unquoted equity securities, investments in and advances to affiliates and real estate and collateral loans. The relevant liabilities are total general business insurance reserves and total other liabilities less deferred income tax and sundry liabilities (by interpretation, those not specifically defined), letters of credit and guarantees. Supervision, Investigation and Intervention The BMA may appoint an inspector with extensive powers to investigate the affairs of Endurance Bermuda if the BMA believes that such an investigation is in the best interests of its policyholders or persons who may become policyholders. In order to verify or supplement information otherwise provided to the BMA, the BMA may direct Endurance Bermuda to produce documents or information relating to matters connected with its business. In addition, the BMA has the power to require the production of documents from any person who appears to be in possession of such documents. Further, the BMA has the power, in respect of a person registered under the Insurance Act, to appoint a professional person to prepare a report on any aspect of any matter about which the BMA has required or could require information. If it appears to the BMA to be desirable in the interests of the clients of a person registered under the Insurance Act, the BMA may also exercise these powers in relation to any company which is or has at any relevant time been (a) a parent company, subsidiary company or related company of that registered person, (b) a subsidiary company of a parent company of that registered person, (c) a parent company of a subsidiary company of that registered person or (d) a company in the case of which a shareholder controller of that registered person, either alone or with any associate or associates, holds 50 percent or more of the shares or is entitled to exercise, or control the exercise, of more than 50 percent of the voting power at a general meeting. The BMA may also make rules prescribing prudential standards in relation to ECR, capital and solvency returns, insurance reserves and eligible capital which Endurance Bermuda must comply with. Endurance Bermuda may make an application to be exempted from the rules. If it appears to the BMA that there is a risk of Endurance Bermuda becoming insolvent, or that Endurance Bermuda is in breach of the Insurance Act or any conditions imposed upon its registration, the BMA may, among other things, direct Endurance Bermuda (i) not to effect further contracts of insurance, or any contract of insurance of a specified description; (ii) to limit the aggregate of the premiums to be written by it during a specified period beginning not earlier than 28 days after the direction is given; (iii) not to vary any contract of insurance in force when the direction is given, if the effect of the variation would be to increase the liabilities of the insurer; (iv) not to make any investment of a specified class; (v) before the expiration of a specified period (or such longer period as the BMA may allow) to realize any existing investment of a specified class; (vi) not to declare or pay any dividends or any other distributions, or to restrict the making of such payments to such extent as the BMA thinks fit; (vii) not to enter into any specified transaction with any specified person or persons of a specified class; (viii) to provide such written particulars relating to the financial circumstances of the insurer as the BMA thinks fit; and (ix) to obtain the opinion of a loss reserve specialist with respect to general business, or an actuarial opinion with respect to long-term business, and to submit it to the BMA within a specified time. Disclosure of Information In addition to powers under the Insurance Act to investigate the affairs of an insurer, the BMA may require certain information from an insurer (or certain other persons) to be produced to them. Further, the BMA has been given powers to assist other regulatory authorities, including foreign insurance regulatory authorities, with their investigations involving insurance and reinsurance companies in Bermuda but subject to restrictions. For example, the BMA must be satisfied that the assistance being requested is in connection with the discharge of regulatory responsibilities of the foreign regulatory authority. Further, the BMA must consider whether cooperation is in the public interest. The grounds for disclosure are limited and the Insurance Act provides sanctions for breach of the statutory duty of confidentiality. 35 Table of Contents Under the Companies Act, the Minister has been given powers to assist a foreign regulatory authority which has requested assistance in connection with enquiries being carried out by it in the performance of its regulatory functions. The Minister’s powers include requiring a person to furnish him with information, to produce documents to him, to attend and answer questions and to give assistance in connection with enquiries. The Minister must be satisfied that the assistance requested by the foreign regulatory authority is for the purpose of its regulatory functions and that the request is in relation to information in Bermuda which a person has in his possession or under his control. The Minister must consider, among other things, whether it is in the public interest to give the information sought. The Insurance Code of Conduct The BMA has implemented a new insurance code, the Insurance Code, which came into effect on 1 July 2010. The BMA established 1 July 2011 as the date of compliance for all insurers. The Insurance Code is divided into six categories, including: (1) Proportionality Principle; (2) Corporate Governance; (3) Risk Management; (4) Governance Mechanism; (5) Outsourcing; and (6) Market Discipline and Disclosure. These categories contain the duties, requirements and compliance standards to be adhered to by all insurers. It stipulates that in order to achieve compliance with the Insurance Code, insurers are to develop and apply policies and procedures capable of assessment by the BMA. Group Supervision Emerging international norms in the regulation of global insurance and reinsurance groups are trending increasingly towards the imposition of group-wide supervisory regimes by one principal “home” regulator over all the legal entities in the group, no matter where incorporated. Amendments to the Insurance Act in 2010 introduced such a regime into Bermuda insurance regulation by the insertion of a new Part IVA of the Insurance Act. As a result of the new Part IVA, the BMA will publish a statement of principles regarding the exercise of its discretion to determine whether it should be a group supervisor. The new Part IVA includes new provisions regarding group supervision, the authority to exclude specified entities from group supervision, the power for the BMA to withdraw as group supervisor, the functions of the BMA as group supervisor and the power of the BMA to make rules regarding group supervision. The BMA also intends to publish an insurance code of conduct in relation to group supervision. There is presently no indication as to when group supervision may be fully implemented and what companies may be included. Notifications to the BMA The amendments to the Insurance Act in 2010 saw the modification of notification requirements for change of shareholder controllers. Where an insurer’s shares or its parent company’s shares are traded on any stock exchange recognized by the BMA, then any shareholder must notify the BMA within 45 days of becoming a 10 percent, 20 percent, 33 percent, or 50 percent shareholder controller of such insurer. The notice has to be given within 45 days of the shareholder becoming aware of the relevant facts. These provisions are applicable to us and our shareholders although we are unlikely to ever trigger the shareholder controller provisions in respect of U.S. shareholders due to the limitation on voting provisions in the Endurance Bermuda’s bye-laws. Also an insurer must give written notice to the BMA that a person has become, or ceased to be, a controller of that insurer, a controller being a managing director, chief executive or other person in accordance with whose directions or instructions the directors of Endurance Bermuda are accustomed to act, including any person who holds, or is entitled to exercise, 10% or more of the voting shares or voting power or is able to exercise a significant influence over the management of Endurance Bermuda. Failure to give such notice is an offence under the Insurance Act. 36 Table of Contents An insurer, or designated insurer, in respect of the group of which it is a member, must notify the BMA in writing that it proposes to take measures that are likely to be of material significance for the discharge, in relation to the insurer or the insurance group, of the BMA’s functions under the Insurance Act. Measures that are likely to be of material significance include: • transfer or acquisition of insurance business being part of a scheme falling within section 25 of the Insurance Act or section 99 of the Companies Act; • amalgamation with or acquisition of another firm; and • a material change in the insurer’s business plan not otherwise reported to the BMA. In respect of the foregoing, the BMA is obliged to service a notice of objection to the material change unless it is satisfied that: • the interest of policyholders and potential policyholders of the insurer or the insurance group would not in any manner be threatened by the material change; and • without prejudice to the first bulletin point above, that, having regard to the material change the requirements of Insurance Act would continue to be complied with, or, if any of those requirements are not complied with, that the insurer concerned is likely to undertake adequate remedial action. Failure to give such notice constitutes an offence under the Insurance Act. It is possible to appeal a notice of objection served by the BMA. Bermuda Guidance Notes The BMA has issued Guidance Notes on the application of the Insurance Act in respect of the duties, requirements and standards to be complied with by persons registered under the Insurance Act or otherwise regulated under it and the procedures and sound principles to be observed by such persons and by auditors, principal representatives and loss reserve specialists. The BMA continues to issue Guidance Notes through its web site at www.bma.bm. These provide guidance on, among other things, the roles of the principal representative, approved auditor, and approved actuary and corporate governance for Bermuda insurers. The BMA has stated that the Guidance Notes should be understood as reflecting the minimum standard that the BMA expects insurers such as Endurance Bermuda and other relevant parties to observe at all times. Certain Other Bermuda Law Considerations Endurance Holdings and Endurance Bermuda each are required to comply with the provisions of the Companies Act regulating the payment of dividends and making of distributions from contributed surplus. Endurance Holdings and Endurance Bermuda are prohibited from declaring or paying a dividend, or making a distribution out of contributed surplus, if there are reasonable grounds for believing that: (a) the company is, or would after the payment be, unable to pay its liabilities as they become due; or (b) the realizable value of the company’s assets would thereby be less than the aggregate of its liabilities and its issued share capital and share premium accounts. Although Endurance Bermuda is incorporated in Bermuda, it is classified as a non-resident of Bermuda for exchange control purposes by the BMA. Pursuant to its non-resident status, Endurance Bermuda may engage in transactions in currencies other than Bermuda dollars and there are no restrictions on its ability to transfer funds (other than funds denominated in Bermuda dollars) in and out of Bermuda or to pay dividends to United States residents who are holders of its ordinary shares. Under Bermuda law, exempted companies are companies formed for the purpose of conducting business outside Bermuda from a principal place of business in Bermuda. As “exempted” companies, Endurance Holdings and Endurance Bermuda may not, without the express authorization of the Bermuda legislature or under a license or consent granted by the Minister, participate in certain business transactions, including: (1) the acquisition or holding of land in Bermuda (except that held by way of lease or tenancy agreement which is required for its business and held for a term not exceeding 50 years, or which is used to provide accommodation or recreational facilities for its officers and employees and held with the consent of the Minister, for a term not exceeding 21 years); (2) the taking of mortgages on land in Bermuda to secure an amount in excess of $50,000; (3) to acquire any bonds or debentures secured on any land in Bermuda except bonds or debentures issued by the Government of Bermuda or a public authority or (4) the carrying on of business of any kind for which it is not licensed in Bermuda, except in certain limited circumstances such as doing business with another exempted undertaking in furtherance of Endurance Holdings’ business or Endurance Bermuda’s business (as the case may be) carried on outside Bermuda. Endurance Bermuda is a licensed insurer in Bermuda, and so may carry on activities from Bermuda that are related to and in support of its insurance business. 37 Table of Contents Securities may be offered or sold in Bermuda only in compliance with the provisions of the Investment Business Act 2003, and Exchange Control Act 1972, and related regulations of Bermuda which regulate the sale of securities in Bermuda. In addition, specific permission is required from the BMA, pursuant to the provisions of the Exchange Control Act 1972 and related regulations, for all issuances and transfers of securities of Bermuda companies, other than in cases where the BMA has granted a general permission. The BMA, in its policy dated June 1, 2005, provides that where any equity securities, which would include our ordinary shares, of a Bermuda company are listed on an appointed stock exchange (the New York Stock Exchange is deemed to be an appointed stock exchange under Bermuda law), general permission is given for the issue and subsequent transfer of any securities of a company from and/or to a non-resident, for as long as any equity securities of the company remain so listed. The ordinary shares of Endurance Bermuda are listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Notwithstanding the above general permission, the BMA has granted us permission to, subject to our ordinary or voting shares being listed on an appointed stock exchange, issue, grant, create, sell and transfer any of our shares, stock, bonds, notes (other than promissory notes), debentures, debenture stock, units under a unit trust scheme, shares in an oil royalty, options, warrants, coupons, rights and depository receipts, collectively, the “Securities”, to and among persons who are either resident or non-resident of Bermuda for exchange control purposes, whether or not the Securities (excluding, for the avoidance of doubt, our ordinary or voting shares) are listed on an appointed stock exchange. The Minister, under Bermuda’s Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, has given us a written assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to us or any of our operations or our shares, debentures or other obligations until 28 March 2016. The government of Bermuda has announced its intent to extend the protection afforded under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966 to 2035. However, the extension has not yet been enacted into law and there can be no assurance that it will be enacted into law. Accordingly, it is possible that after March 28, 2016 we may be subject to Bermuda taxes. Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians (other than spouses of Bermudians or Permanent Resident Card (“PRC”) Holders) may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without a work permit issued by the Department of Immigration. Work permits may be granted or extended by the Bermuda Government upon showing that, after proper public advertisement in most cases, no Bermudian (or spouse of a Bermudian or PRC Holder) is available who meets the minimum standard requirements for the advertised position. In April 2001, the Bermuda Government announced a policy that places six-year term limits on individuals’ work, with certain exemptions for key employees. U.K. Regulation General On December 1, 2001, the Financial Services Authority (“FSA”) assumed its full powers and responsibilities as the single statutory regulator responsible for regulating the financial services industry in respect of the carrying on of regulated activities (including deposit taking, insurance, investment management and most other financial services business by way of business in the U.K.), with the purpose of maintaining confidence in the U.K. financial system, providing public understanding of the system, securing the proper degree of protection for consumers and helping to reduce financial crime. It is a criminal offense for any person to carry on a regulated activity in the U.K. unless that person is authorized by the FSA and has been granted permission to carry on that regulated activity or falls under an exemption. Insurance business (which includes reinsurance business) is authorized and supervised by the FSA. Insurance business in the United Kingdom is divided between two main categories: long-term insurance (which is primarily investment-related) and general insurance. It is not possible for an insurance company to be authorized in both long-term and general insurance business. These two categories are both divided into “classes” (for example: permanent health and pension fund management are two classes of long-term insurance; damage to property and motor vehicle liability are two classes of general insurance). Under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (the “FSMA”), effecting or carrying out contracts of insurance, within a class of general or long-term insurance, by way of business in the United Kingdom, constitutes a regulated activity requiring individual authorization. An authorized insurance company must have permission for each class of insurance business it intends to write. 38 Table of Contents Endurance U.K. has received authorization from the FSA to effect and carry out in the United Kingdom contracts of insurance in all classes of general business (limited in the case of credit and surety to reinsurance only) except legal expenses and assistance business. On January 14, 2005, as a result of the implementation by the United Kingdom Government of the Insurance Mediation Directive (2002/92/EC) various additional activities, which had previously been unregulated, fell within the scope of FSA regulation. Endurance U.K. has accordingly received authorization from the FSA to conduct the following additional regulated activities: arranging (bringing about) deals in investments and making arrangements with a view to transactions in investments. In both cases, those activities are restricted to non-investment insurance contracts. Endurance U.K. is also authorized to accept deposits (limited to accepting deposits in the course of carrying on insurance business for which it holds permission). As an authorized insurer in the United Kingdom, Endurance U.K. would be able to operate throughout the E.U., subject to certain regulatory requirements of the FSA and in some cases, certain local regulatory requirements. An insurance company with FSA authorization to write insurance business in the United Kingdom can seek consent from the FSA to allow it to provide cross-border services in other member states of the E.U. As an alternative, FSA consent may be obtained to establish a branch office within another member state. As an FSA authorized insurer, the insurance and reinsurance businesses of Endurance U.K. are subject to close supervision by the FSA. The FSA has implemented specific requirements for senior management arrangements, systems and controls of insurance and reinsurance companies under its jurisdiction, which place a strong emphasis on risk identification and management in relation to the prudential regulation of insurance and reinsurance business in the United Kingdom. In December 2004, the FSA prompted a market initiative in the United Kingdom insurance industry to resolve perceived problems resulting from contract uncertainty, which may exist where the full terms and conditions of a contract of insurance or reinsurance are not established at or before the time when the contract comes into force. The FSA’s stated preferred outcome was that a market solution should be produced which met the regulator’s main concerns, which were that policyholders should know precisely what protection they have bought; and that insurers, reinsurers and brokers should have a clearer view, at the time of inception of a contract of the relevant legal, fiduciary, operational and underwriting risks to which they are subject. Contract certainty has since continued to be a supervisory priority and most of the insurance industry in the U.K. signed up to a Code of Practice to help avoid disputes arising from contract uncertainty. The FSA has stated that in cases where it believes that firms have fallen behind the rest of the market in reducing the number of contracts that do not meet the market’s contract certainty standards, it would consider regulatory action to address this, though no enforcement action has been taken in this regard to date. This action might include increases in required regulatory capital or the commencement of enforcement action. In December 2007, the FSA published its new Insurance Conduct of Business sourcebook (“ICOBS”) which sets out the standards of the requirements for general insurance firms on how they deal with their customers. The new general insurance regime came into effect on January 6, 2008. Supervision The FSA carries out the prudential supervision of insurance companies through a variety of methods, including the collection of information from statistical returns, review of accountants’ reports, visits to insurance companies and regular formal interviews. The FSA has adopted a risk-based approach to the supervision of insurance companies. Under this approach the FSA performs a formal risk assessment of insurance companies or groups carrying on business in the U.K. periodically, which varies in length according to the risk profile of the insurer. The FSA performs the risk assessment by analyzing information which it receives during the normal course of its supervision, such as regular prudential returns on the financial position of the insurance company, or which it acquires through a series of meetings with senior management of the insurance company. After each risk assessment, the FSA will inform the insurer of its views on the insurer’s risk profile. This will include details of any remedial action that the FSA requires and the likely consequences if this action is not taken. 39 Table of Contents Solvency Requirements The FSA’s General Prudential Sourcebook and Prudential Sourcebook for Insurers (together, the “Prudential Sourcebooks”) require that insurance companies maintain a margin of solvency at all times in respect of any general insurance undertaken by the insurance company, the calculation of which in any particular case depends on the type and amount of insurance business a company writes. The method of calculation of the solvency margin is set out in the Prudential Sourcebooks, and for these purposes, all insurer’s assets and liabilities are subject to specific valuation rules which are set out in the Prudential Sourcebooks. Failure to maintain the required solvency margin is one of the grounds on which wide powers of intervention conferred upon the FSA may be exercised. For financial years ending on or after January 1, 2004, the calculation of the required margin of solvency has been amended as a result of the implementation of the E.U. Solvency I Directives. In respect of liability business accepted, 150% of the actual premiums written and claims incurred must be included in the calculation, which has had the effect of increasing the required minimum margin of solvency of Endurance U.K. Endurance U.K. continuously monitors its solvency capital position and maintains capital in excess of the required minimum margin of solvency. Each insurance company writing various classes of business is also required by the Prudential Sourcebooks to maintain equalization provisions calculated in accordance with the provisions of the Prudential Sourcebook for Insurers. Insurers are required to calculate an Enhanced Capital Requirement (“ECR”) in addition to their required minimum solvency margin and to report it to the FSA (though the ECR is not part of the formal capital requirements under the Prudential Sourcebooks). This represents a more risk-based calculation than the statutory solvency margin requirements derived from the E.U. Directives. There is also a requirement for insurers to maintain financial resources which are adequate, both as to amount and quality, to ensure that there is no significant risk that its liabilities cannot be met as they come due. In order to carry out the assessment as to the necessary financial resources that are required, an insurer is required to identify the major sources of risk to its ability to meet its liabilities as they come due, and to carry out stress and scenario tests to identify an appropriate range of realistic adverse scenarios in which the risk crystallizes and to estimate the financial resources needed in each of the circumstances and events identified. In addition, the FSA gives individual capital guidance (“ICG”) regularly to insurers and reinsurers following receipt of individual capital assessments, prepared by firms themselves. The FSA’s guidance may be that a company should hold more or less than its then current level of regulatory capital, or that the company’s regulatory capital should remain unaltered. Endurance U.K. has submitted an individual capital assessment solvency calculation to the FSA and has agreed with the FSA the bases and methodology for this calculation. This calculation is used along with other tools by the FSA to help establish the ICG. Endurance U.K. is currently calculating the ECR for December 31, 2010. Should Endurance U.K. not meet this test, additional capital may be required. In addition, an insurer (other than a pure reinsurer) that is part of a group, is required to perform and submit to the FSA a solvency margin calculation return in respect of its ultimate parent undertaking, in accordance with the FSA’s rules. This return is not part of an insurer’s own solvency return and hence will not be publicly available. Although there is no requirement for the parent undertaking solvency calculation to show a positive result, the FSA may take action where it considers that the solvency of the insurance company is or may be jeopardized due to the group solvency position. Further, an insurer is required to report in its annual returns to the FSA all material related party transactions (e.g., intra group reinsurance, whose value is more than 5% of the insurer’s general insurance business amount). The European Commission, jointly with Member States, is carrying out a fundamental review of the regulatory capital and supervisory regime of the insurance industry (the Solvency II project). Its objective is to establish a solvency system that is better matched to the true risks of insurers enabling supervisors to protect policyholders’ interests as effectively as possible and in accordance with common principles across the EU. Endurance U.K. is monitoring the ongoing consultation and legislative steps following adoption of the Solvency II Framework Directive in May 2009 (which will be amended by a further “Omnibus Directive” proposed by the European Commission in January, 2011) (together the “Solvency II Directive”). The legislation implementing the final version of the Solvency II Directive is required to take effect in the U.K. and the other E.U. member states on January 1, 2013, and will replace the current solvency requirements described above. The FSA is undertaking a program of preparatory work and supervisory visits to insurers, in order to identify the actions which it considers that insurers should now undertake in anticipation of the implementation of the Solvency II Directive and to review insurers’ internal models for calculating all or part of the new solvency capital requirements. Endurance UK is fully co-operating with the FSA in this respect. 40 Table of Contents Restrictions on Dividend Payments U.K. company law prohibits Endurance U.K. from declaring a dividend to its shareholders unless it has “profits available for distribution.” The determination of whether a company has profits available for distribution is based on its accumulated realized profits less its accumulated realized losses. While the United Kingdom insurance regulatory laws impose no statutory restrictions on a general insurer’s ability to declare a dividend, the FSA strictly controls the maintenance of each insurance company’s solvency margin within its jurisdiction. The FSA’s rules require Endurance U.K. to notify the FSA of any proposed or actual payment of a dividend. Any such payment or proposal could result in regulatory intervention. In addition, the FSA requires authorized insurance companies to notify the FSA in advance of any significant dividend payment. Reporting Requirements U.K. insurance companies must prepare their financial statements under the Companies Act of 1985 (as amended), which requires the filing with Companies House of audited financial statements and related reports. In addition, U.K. insurance companies are required to file with the FSA regulatory returns, which include a revenue account, a profit and loss account and a balance sheet in prescribed forms. Under the Interim Prudential Sourcebook for Insurers, audited regulatory returns must be filed with the FSA within two months and 15 days (or three months where the delivery of the return is made electronically). Supervision of Management The FSA closely supervises the management of insurance companies through the approved persons regime, by which any appointment of persons to perform certain specified “controlled functions” within a regulated entity, must be approved by the FSA. Change of Control The Financial Services and Markets Act (the “FSMA”) regulates the acquisition of control of any U.K. insurance company authorized under the FSMA. Any company or individual that (together with any person acting in concert with it or him) directly or indirectly acquires 10% or more of the shares in a U.K. authorized insurance company or its parent company, or is entitled to exercise or control the exercise of 10% or more of the voting power in such authorized insurance company or its parent company, would be considered to have acquired control for the purposes of the relevant legislation, as would a person who had significant influence over the management of such authorized insurance company or its parent company by virtue of his shareholding or voting power in either. A purchaser of 10% or more of the ordinary shares would therefore be considered to have acquired control of Endurance U.K. Under the FSMA (as amended by the E.U. Acquisitions Directive), any person proposing to acquire control over a U.K. authorized insurance company must give prior notification to the FSA of his intention to do so together with certain prescribed information. The FSA then has 60 working days to make a decision following its acknowledgement of the application. The duration of this period may be stopped by the FSA once, to request further information, for a maximum of 20 days (30 days for non-EU applicants). Although the FSA may make further information requests, this does not “stop the clock”, meaning that the FSA has a maximum of 82 working days to consider an application from an EU applicant (92 for a non-EU applicant). The FSA may only object to a particular acquisition on the basis of certain specified “assessment criteria” relating to the reputation and financial soundness of the acquirer, the reputation and experience of those who will direct the regulated business, compliance with prudential requirement and any suspicion of money laundering or terrorist financing. In addition to these requirements, the U.K. insurer itself is obliged to notify the FSA if it is aware of the proposed acquisition, and may be subject to regulatory enforcement action if it fails to do so. Intervention and Enforcement The FSA has extensive powers to intervene in the affairs of an authorized person, culminating in the ultimate sanction of the removal of authorization to carry on a regulated activity. FSMA imposes on the FSA statutory obligations to monitor compliance with the requirements imposed by FSMA, and to enforce the provisions of FSMA related rules made by the FSA. The FSA has power, among other things, to enforce and take disciplinary measures in respect of breaches of both the Prudential Sourcebooks and breaches of the conduct of business rules generally applicable to authorized persons. The FSA also has the power to prosecute criminal offences arising under FSMA, and to prosecute insider dealing under Part V of the Criminal Justice Act of 1993, and breaches of money laundering regulations. The FSA’s stated policy is to pursue criminal prosecution in all appropriate cases. 41 Table of Contents Passporting European Union directives allow Endurance U.K. to conduct business in European Union states other than the United Kingdom in compliance with the scope of permission granted these companies by the FSA without the necessity of additional licensing or authorization in other European Union jurisdictions. This ability to operate in other jurisdictions of the European Union on the basis of home state authorization and supervision is sometimes referred to as passporting. Insurers may operate outside their home member state either on a services basis or on an establishment basis. Operating on a services basis means that the Company conducts permitted businesses in the host state without having a physical presence there, while operating on an establishment basis means the Company has a branch or physical presence in the host state. In both cases, a company remains subject to regulation by its home regulator, and not by local regulatory authorities, although the Company nonetheless may have to comply with certain local rules reserved to the “host state” (the state into which the services are being provided or in which the branch is being established). In addition to European Union member states, Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein (members of the broader European Economic Area) are jurisdictions in which this passporting framework applies. Elimination of the FSA The U.K. Government is currently consulting on proposals to reform the U.K. regulatory structure. This means that, as of 2012, the FSA will cease to exist in its current form and three new regulatory bodies will be established in its place. Endurance U.K. will be supervised by both the Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”) and the Prudential Regulation Authority (“PRA”) going forward. The FCA will be responsible for regulating the day-to-day conduct of insurance firms and the PRA will have responsibility for monitoring compliance with prudential requirements. It is proposed that the FCA will have a more interventionalist approach to regulation and will be focused on consumer outcomes. U.S. Regulation The Company’s U.S. operating subsidiaries are domiciled in the State of Delaware, with the exception of American Agri-Business Insurance Company, which is domiciled in the State of Texas. Much of state insurance regulation follows model statutes or regulations developed or amended by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”) which is comprised of the insurance commissioners of each U.S. jurisdiction. The NAIC re-examines and amends existing model laws and regulations (including holding company regulations) in addition to determining whether new ones are needed. NAIC model laws and regulations are merely recommended laws and regulations relating to the regulation of insurance in the U.S. that become effective only when enacted into law or promulgated as a regulation in a state. Some models have been enacted in very few states and some models have been enacted in all states in some form or another. Insurance Holding Company Regulation of Endurance Holdings Endurance Holdings and Endurance U.S. Holdings Corp., as parent companies of the Company’s U.S. operating companies, are subject to the insurance holding company laws of the States of Delaware and Texas, the states in which the Company’s U.S. operating subsidiaries are organized and domiciled. These laws generally require, among other things, the insurance holding company and each insurance company directly or indirectly owned by the holding company to register with the insurance departments of their respective domiciliary states and to furnish annually financial and other information about the operations of companies within the holding company system. Generally, all material transactions among companies in the holding company system involving the Company’s U.S. operating subsidiaries, including sales, loans, reinsurance agreements, service agreements, dividend payments and certain transactions within the insurance holding company system must be fair and, if material or of a specified category, require prior notice and approval or non-disapproval by the insurance regulator of the state in which the involved U.S. operating subsidiary is domiciled. In the wake of the financial crisis, the NAIC, as part of its solvency modernization initiative, has engaged in a concerted effort to strengthen the ability of U.S. state insurance regulators to monitor U.S. insurance holding company groups. The NAIC’s solvency modernization initiative, among other things, aims to expand the authority and focus of state insurance regulators to encompass U.S. insurance holding company systems at the group level. The holding company reform efforts at the NAIC culminated in December 2010 in the adoption of significant amendments to the NAIC’s Insurance Holding Company System Regulatory Act (the “Model Act”) and its Insurance Holding Company System Model Regulation (the “Model Regulation”). Among other things, the revised Model Act and Model Regulation explicitly address “enterprise” risk — the risk that an activity, circumstance, event or series of events involving one or more affiliates of an insurer that, if not remedied promptly, is likely to have a material adverse affect upon the financial condition or liquidity of the insurer or its insurance holding company system as a whole — and require annual reporting of potential enterprise risk as well as access to information to allow the state insurance regulator to assess such risk. If the insurance regulator in Delaware and/or Texas adopts the revised Model Act and Model Regulation, the scope of insurance holding company regulation that the Company’s holding company system is currently subject to will be significantly expanded. 42 Table of Contents Changes of Control Before a person can acquire control of a U.S. domestic insurer (or reinsurer), prior written approval must be obtained from the insurance commissioner of the state where the insurer (or reinsurer) is domiciled, or the acquiror must make a disclaimer of control filing with the insurance department of such state and obtain approval thereon. Prior to granting approval of an application to acquire control of a domestic insurer (or reinsurer), the domiciliary state insurance commissioner will consider such factors as the financial strength of the proposed acquiror, the integrity and management of the acquiror’s Board of Directors and executive officers, the acquiror’s plans for the future operations of the domestic insurer and any anti-competitive results that may arise from the consummation of the acquisition of control. Generally, state insurance statutes provide that control over a domestic insurer is presumed to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, owns, controls, holds with the power to vote, or holds proxies representing, ten percent or more of the voting securities of the domestic insurer. Because a person acquiring ten percent or more of Endurance Holdings’ ordinary shares would indirectly acquire the same percentage of common stock of Endurance Holdings’ U.S. operating subsidiaries, the U.S. insurance change of control laws will likely apply to such a transaction. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of Endurance Holdings, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of the shareholders of Endurance Holdings might consider to be desirable. State Insurance Regulation of the Company’s U.S. Operating Subsidiaries Other than bulk reinsurance arrangements, the terms and conditions of reinsurance agreements between unaffiliated parties generally are not subject to regulation by any U.S. state insurance department with respect to rates or policy terms unlike primary insurance agreements, the rates and policy terms of which are generally closely regulated by state insurance departments. As a practical matter, however, the rates charged by primary insurers do have an effect on the rates that can be charged by reinsurers. State insurance authorities have broad regulatory powers with respect to various aspects of the business of the Company’s U.S. operating subsidiaries including: licensing to transact business, admittance of assets to statutory surplus, regulating unfair trade and claims practices, establishing reserve requirements and solvency standards (including risk-based capital standards), approval of policy forms and dates, and regulating investments, dividends and transactions between an insurer and its affiliates. With respect to direct insurance business, states may also regulate rates and forms used by insurers admitted to transact business within a given state jurisdiction. State insurance laws and regulations require each of the Company’s U.S. operating subsidiaries to file financial statements with insurance departments everywhere it is licensed, authorized or accredited to conduct insurance business; and the operations of the Company’s U.S. operating subsidiaries are subject to examination by those departments at any time. The Company’s U.S. operating subsidiaries prepare statutory financial statements in accordance with statutory accounting practices and procedures prescribed or permitted by these departments. State insurance departments also conduct periodic examinations of the books and records, financial reporting, policy filings and market conduct of insurance companies domiciled or authorized to transact business in their states, generally once every three to five years. Examinations are generally carried out in cooperation with the insurance departments of other states under guidelines promulgated by the NAIC. In general, such state regulation is for the protection of policyholders rather than shareholders. Under Delaware and Texas insurance laws, the Company’s U.S. operating subsidiaries may only pay dividends to their respective parent companies out of earned surplus. In Delaware and Texas, earned surplus is defined as an amount equal to the unassigned funds of an insurer as set forth in the most recent annual statement of the insurer submitted to the applicable state insurance regulator, including all or part of the surplus arising from unrealized capital gains or revaluation of assets. 43 Table of Contents In addition, the ability of the Company’s U.S. operating subsidiaries to declare or pay any dividend, together with all dividends declared or distributed by it within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of: 1. ten percent of its policyholders surplus as of the 31st day of December of the preceding year; or 2. the statutory net income, not including realized capital gains for the 12-month period ending, for the preceding calendar year (the 31st day of December next preceding) will be subject to the prior approval of the applicable domestic state insurance regulator. Any dividend paid by any one of the Company’s U.S. operating subsidiaries must first be paid to its parent company. If the parent company is also an insurer, as is the case with Endurance American, Endurance American Specialty and Endurance Risk Solutions, the parent company or companies must also meet their own dividend eligibility requirements set forth above in order to pass along any dividends received from subsidiary insurance companies. The dividend limitations imposed by Delaware and Texas insurance laws are based on the statutory financial results of the Company’s U.S. operating subsidiaries determined by using statutory accounting practices which differ in certain respects from accounting principles used in financial statements prepared in conformity with U.S. GAAP. The significant differences relate to deferred acquisition expenses, deferred income taxes, required investment reserves, reserve calculation assumptions and surplus notes. At December 31, 2010, of the Company’s U.S. operating subsidiaries, only ARMtech had earned surplus, and therefore, only ARMtech could declare or distribute dividends in 2010 without prior regulatory approval. The U.S. federal government’s oversight of the insurance industry was expanded under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). Prior to the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act in July 2010, the U.S. federal government’s regulation of the insurance industry was essentially limited to certain insurance products, such as flood insurance, multi-peril crop insurance and reinsurance of losses from terrorism. As part of the overall federal financial regulatory reform package contained in the Dodd-Frank Act, Congress has legislated reforms in the reinsurance and surplus lines sectors. Under reinsurance credit rules established under the Dodd-Frank Act, which are to become effective on July 21, 2011, a U.S. ceding insurer need not satisfy the reinsurance credit rules of any nondomestic state if the following two conditions are met: 1) the ceding insurer’s domestic state is NAIC-accredited, and 2) the ceding insurer’s domestic state recognizes credit for reinsurance for its ceded risk. The Dodd-Frank Act also created a Federal Insurance Office (“FIO”) in the U.S. Department of the Treasury. The FIO will have the authority to gather information, to advise the treasury secretary on key issues such as terrorism risk coverage and insurance accounting rules, and to send reports to Congress. The FIO director will serve as a nonvoting member of the Financial Stability Oversight Council. In addition, the FIO will have the ability to recommend to the Financial Stability Oversight Council the designation of an insurer as “systemically significant” and therefore subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve as a bank holding company. In limited circumstances, the FIO can declare a state insurance law or regulation “preempted;” but this can be done only after extensive consultation with state insurance regulators, the Federal Office of Trade Representative and key insurance industry players (in trade associations representing insurers and intermediaries). The Dodd-Frank Act has the potential to open the door to greater federal oversight of U.S. insurance markets. The U.S. Congress continues to examine the current condition of U.S. state-based insurance regulation to determine whether to allow optional federal insurance company incorporation. The federal government has also undertaken initiatives in several other areas that may impact the insurance industry including tort reform, corporate governance and the taxation of insurance companies. We cannot predict with certainty whether, or in what form, reforms will be enacted and, if so, whether the enacted reforms will positively or negatively affect our business or whether any effects will be material. Changes in federal statutes, including the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the McCarran-Ferguson Act, financial services regulation and federal taxation, in addition to changes to state statutes and regulations, may be more restrictive than current requirements or may result in higher costs, and could materially adversely affect the insurance industry and our business, financial condition and results of operations. 44 Table of Contents Risk-Based Capital Regulations The insurance laws of Delaware and Texas require that insurers report their risk-based capital (“RBC”) based on a formula calculated by applying factors to various asset, premium and reserve items. The formula takes into account the risk characteristics of the insurer, including asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk and business risk. The state insurance departments of Delaware and Texas use the formula only as an early warning regulatory tool to identify possibly inadequately capitalized insurers for purposes of initiating regulatory action, and not as a means to rank insurers generally. Insurance laws impose broad confidentiality requirements on those engaged in the insurance business (including insurers, agents, brokers and others) and on the state insurance departments as to the use and publication of RBC data. The insurance departments of Delaware and Texas have explicit regulatory authority to require various actions by, or take various actions against, insurers whose total adjusted capital does not exceed certain RBC levels. Statutory Accounting Practices Statutory accounting practices, or “SAP,” are a basis of accounting developed to assist U.S. insurance regulators in monitoring and regulating the solvency of insurance companies. It is primarily concerned with measuring an insurer’s surplus to policyholders. Accordingly, statutory accounting focuses on valuing assets and liabilities of insurers at financial reporting dates in accordance with appropriate insurance law and regulatory provisions applicable in each insurer’s domiciliary state. U.S. GAAP concerns an insurer’s solvency, but it also concerns other financial measurements, such as income and cash flows. Accordingly, U.S. GAAP gives more consideration to appropriate matching of revenue and expenses and accounting for management’s stewardship of assets than does SAP. As a direct result, different assets and liabilities and different amounts of assets and liabilities will be reflected in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP as opposed to SAP. Statutory accounting practices established by the NAIC and adopted, in part, by the Delaware and Texas insurance regulators, determine, among other things, the amount of statutory surplus and statutory net income of Endurance Holdings’ U.S. insurance company subsidiaries and thus determine, in part, the amount of funds they have available to pay dividends to their respective parent companies. Operations of Endurance U.K. and Endurance Bermuda Endurance U.K. and Endurance Bermuda are not admitted to do business in any state in the United States. Insurance laws of each state of the United States and of many other countries restrict or prohibit the sale of insurance and reinsurance within their jurisdictions by non-admitted alien insurers and reinsurers such as Endurance U.K. and Endurance Bermuda. In addition to the regulatory requirements imposed by the jurisdictions in which they are licensed, reinsurers’ business operations are affected by regulatory requirements in various states of the United States governing “credit for reinsurance” which are imposed on their ceding companies. In general, a ceding company that obtains reinsurance from a reinsurer that is licensed, accredited or approved by the jurisdiction or state in which the reinsurer files statutory financial statements is permitted to reflect in its statutory financial statements a credit in an aggregate amount equal to the liability for unearned premiums (which are that portion of written premiums which applies to the remaining portion of the policy period) and loss reserves and loss expense reserves ceded to the reinsurer. As stated above, Endurance U.K. and Endurance Bermuda are not licensed, accredited or approved in any state in the United States. The great majority of states, however, permit a credit to statutory surplus resulting from reinsurance obtained from a non-licensed or non-accredited reinsurer to be offset to the extent that the reinsurer provides a letter of credit or other acceptable security arrangement. A few states do not allow credit for reinsurance ceded to non-licensed or non-accredited reinsurers except in certain limited circumstances and others impose additional requirements that make it difficult to become accredited. We do not believe that Endurance U.K. and Endurance Bermuda are in violation of insurance laws of any jurisdiction in the United States. There can be no assurance however, that inquiries or challenges to Endurance U.K.’s or Endurance Bermuda’s insurance or reinsurance activities will not be raised in the future. Switzerland In 2008, Endurance Bermuda established a branch in Zurich, Switzerland named Endurance Specialty Insurance Ltd. Pembroke (Bermuda) Zurich Branch. The Swiss Financial Regulator does not impose additional regulation upon a Swiss branch of a foreign reinsurer. On January 1, 2009, the Federal Act on the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority (“FINMA”), which the Swiss Parliament approved in June 2007, went into full legal force. The effect of the Act was to merge three bodies — the Federal Office of Private Insurance, the Swiss Federal Banking Commission and the Anti-Money Laundering Control Authority — into FINMA. Until their merger and incorporation into FINMA, these three authorities retained responsibility for their own areas of activity. 45 Table of Contents Singapore In 2008, Endurance Specialty Insurance Ltd. Singapore Branch received regulatory approval from the Monetary Authority of Singapore to operate as a branch insurer of Endurance Bermuda in Singapore to transact general reinsurance domestically and internationally. The branch is regulated by the Monetary Authority of Singapore pursuant to the Insurance Act. Endurance Specialty Insurance Ltd. Singapore Branch is also registered by the Accounting and Corporate Regulatory Authority (“ACRA”) as a foreign company in Singapore and is regulated by ACRA pursuant to the Companies Act. Endurance Specialty Insurance Ltd. Singapore Branch has received approval under a tax incentive scheme set out in the Income Tax Act (and the relevant regulations) which provides for a concessionary corporate tax rate of 10% to be applied on its income from all its offshore general reinsurance business for a period of 10 years from April 2010 to March 2020. For the year ended December 31, 2010, capital of $15.0 million was provided to the Singapore Branch. Total capital injections from inception to December 31, 2010 were $29.9 million. MATERIAL TAX CONSIDERATIONS Certain Bermuda Tax Considerations Currently, there is no Bermuda income, corporation or profits tax, withholding tax, capital gains tax, capital transfer tax, estate duty or inheritance tax payable by us or our shareholders, other than shareholders ordinarily resident in Bermuda, if any. Currently, there is no Bermuda withholding or other tax on principal interest or dividends paid to holders of the ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares, other than holders ordinarily resident in Bermuda, if any. There can be no assurance that we or our shareholders will not be subject to any such tax in the future. Endurance Bermuda has received written assurance dated December 7, 2001 and Endurance Holdings has received written assurance dated July 18, 2002 from the Minister of Finance under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966 of Bermuda, as amended, that if there is enacted in Bermuda any legislation imposing tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of that tax would not be applicable to Endurance Bermuda or Endurance Holdings or to any of their respective operations, shares, debentures or obligations until March 28, 2016; provided, that the assurance is subject to the condition that it will not be construed to prevent the application of such tax to people ordinarily resident in Bermuda, or to prevent the application of any taxes payable by Endurance Bermuda or Endurance Holdings in respect of real property or leasehold interests in Bermuda held by them. To date, the Ministry of Finance has given no indication that the Ministry: (i) would not extend the term of the assurance beyond 2016; or (ii) would allow the term of the assurance to expire; or (iii) would change the tax treatment afforded to exempted companies either before or after 2016. The government of Bermuda has announced its intent to extend the protection afforded under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966 to 2035. However, the extension has not yet been enacted into law and there can be no assurance that it will be enacted into law. Accordingly, it is possible that after March 28, 2016 we may be subject to Bermuda taxes. Certain United Kingdom Tax Considerations Endurance U.K. is a company incorporated under the laws of England and is resident in the United Kingdom for United Kingdom corporation tax purposes and will be subject to United Kingdom corporation tax on its worldwide profits. The current rate of United Kingdom corporation tax is generally 28% on profits of whatever description. Currently, no United Kingdom withholding tax applies to dividends paid by Endurance U.K. Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations The following discussion is a summary of certain U.S. federal income tax considerations relating to Endurance Holdings and its operating subsidiaries in Bermuda, the United States and the United Kingdom and the ownership of our ordinary shares and Series A Preferred Shares. 46 Table of Contents This summary is based upon the Code, the regulations promulgated thereunder, rulings and other administrative pronouncements issued by the IRS, judicial decisions, the tax treaty between the United States and Bermuda (the “Bermuda Treaty”) and the tax treaty between the United States and the United Kingdom (the “U.K. Treaty”), all as currently in effect, and all of which are subject to differing interpretations or to change, possibly with retroactive effect. No assurance can be given that the IRS would assert, or that a court would not sustain a position contrary to any of the tax consequences described below. No advance ruling has been or will be sought from the IRS regarding any matter discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This summary is for general information only, and does not purport to discuss all aspects of U.S. federal income taxation that may be important to a particular investor in light of such investor’s investment or tax circumstances, or to investors subject to special tax rules, such as tax-exempt organizations, dealers in securities, banks, insurance companies, persons that hold ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares that are a hedge or that are hedged against interest rate or insurance risks or that are part of a straddle or conversion transaction, or persons whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar. This summary assumes that an investor will hold our ordinary shares and Series A Preferred Shares as capital assets, which generally means as property held for investment. Investors should consult their tax advisors concerning the consequences, in their particular circumstances, of the ownership of ordinary shares and Series A Preferred Shares under U.S. federal, state, local and other tax laws. For U.S. federal income tax purposes and for purposes of the following discussion, a “U.S. Person” means (i) an individual citizen or resident of the United States, (ii) a corporation, or other entity treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, or a partnership, or other entity treated as a partnership for U.S federal income tax purposes, in each case created or organized in the United States or under the laws of the United States or of any of its political subdivisions, (iii) an estate the income of which is subject to U.S. federal income tax without regard to its source or (iv) a trust if either (a) a court within the United States is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of the trust and one or more U.S. Persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust or (b) the trust has a valid election in effect to be treated as a U.S. Person for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A “Non-U.S. Person” is a nonresident alien individual, or a corporation, estate or trust that is not a U.S. person. If a partnership owns ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares, the tax treatment of a partner will generally depend upon the status of the partner and the activities of the partnership. If you are a partner of a partnership that owns ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares, you should consult your tax advisor. United States Taxation of Endurance Holdings and its Operating Subsidiaries Our intent has been and continues to be to operate Endurance Holdings and its non-U.S. subsidiaries in such a manner that they will not be considered to be conducting business within the United States for purposes of U.S. federal income taxation. Whether business is being conducted in the United States is an inherently factual determination. Because the Code, regulations and court decisions fail to identify definitively activities that constitute being engaged in a trade or business in the United States, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not contend successfully that Endurance Holdings, Endurance Bermuda and/or Endurance U.K. are or will be engaged in a trade or business in the United States. A foreign corporation deemed to be so engaged would be subject to U.S. federal income tax (at a current maximum rate of 35%), as well as a 30% branch profits tax in certain circumstances, on its income which is treated as effectively connected with the conduct of that trade or business unless the corporation is entitled to relief under the permanent establishment provision of an applicable tax treaty, as discussed below. Such income tax, if imposed, would be based on effectively connected income computed in a manner generally analogous to that applied to the income of a U.S. corporation, except that a foreign corporation is entitled to deductions and credits only if it timely files a U.S. federal income tax return. Endurance Holdings, Endurance Bermuda and Endurance U.K. have in the past and intend to continue to file protective U.S. federal income tax returns on a timely basis in order to preserve the right to claim income tax deductions and credits if it is ever determined that they are subject to U.S. federal income tax. So long as Endurance Bermuda is entitled to the benefits under the Bermuda-U.S. tax convention, it will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on any income found to be effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business unless that trade or business is conducted through a permanent establishment in the United States. Whether business is being conducted in the United States through a permanent establishment is an inherently factual determination. Endurance Bermuda intends to conduct its activities so as not to have a permanent establishment in the United States, although there can be no assurance that it will achieve this result. An insurance enterprise resident in Bermuda generally will be entitled to the benefits of the Bermuda-U.S. tax convention if (i) more than 50% of its shares are owned beneficially, directly or indirectly, by individual residents of the United States or Bermuda or U.S. citizens and (ii) its income is not used in substantial part, directly or indirectly, to make disproportionate distributions to, or to meet certain liabilities of, persons who are neither residents of either the United States or Bermuda nor U.S. citizens. 47 Table of Contents Foreign insurance companies that conduct an insurance business within the United States must maintain a certain minimum amount of effectively connected net investment income, determined in accordance with a formula that depends, in part, on the amount of U.S. risk insured or reinsured by such companies. If Endurance Bermuda is considered to be engaged in the conduct of an insurance business in the United States and it is not entitled to the benefits of the Bermuda-U.S. tax convention, either because it fails to satisfy one of the limitations on Bermuda-U.S. tax convention benefits described above or because Endurance Bermuda is considered to have a U.S. permanent establishment, a significant portion of Endurance Bermuda’s premium and investment income could be subject to U.S. federal income tax. In addition, while the Bermuda-U.S. tax convention clearly applies to premium income, it is not clear whether it applies to other income, such as investment income. Consequently, if Endurance Bermuda is considered to be engaged in the conduct of an insurance business in the United States and is entitled to the benefits of the Bermuda-U.S. tax convention, but the Bermuda-U.S. tax convention is interpreted so as not to apply to investment income, a significant portion of Endurance Bermuda’s investment income could be subject to U.S. federal income tax even if Endurance Bermuda does not maintain a permanent establishment in the United States. Under the U.K. Treaty, Endurance U.K., if entitled to the benefits of the U.K. Treaty, will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on any income found to be effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business unless that trade or business is conducted through a permanent establishment in the United States. Endurance U.K. intends to continue to conduct its activities in a manner so that it does not have a permanent establishment in the United States, although we cannot predict whether we will achieve this result. Endurance U.K. will be entitled to the benefits of the U.K. Treaty if (i) during at least half of the days in the relevant taxable period, at least 50% of Endurance U.K.’s stock is beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by citizens or residents of the United States and the United Kingdom, and less than 50% of Endurance U.K.’s gross income for the relevant taxable period is paid or accrued, directly or indirectly, to persons who are not U.S. or U.K. residents in the form of payments that are deductible for purposes of U.K. taxation or (ii) with respect to specific items of income, profit or gain derived from the United States, if such income, profit or gain is considered to be derived in connection with, or incidental to, Endurance U.K.’s business conducted in the United Kingdom. Foreign corporations not engaged in a trade or business in the United States are nonetheless subject to U.S. withholding tax at a rate of 30% of the gross amount of certain “fixed or determinable annual or periodical gains, profits and income” derived from sources within the United States (such as dividends and certain interest on investments), subject to reduction by applicable treaties. The United States also imposes an excise tax on insurance and reinsurance premiums paid to foreign insurers or reinsurers with respect to risks located in the United States. The rate of tax applicable to premiums paid to Endurance Bermuda is 4% for non-life insurance premiums and 1% for reinsurance premiums. The excise tax will not apply to premiums paid to Endurance U.K. if Endurance U.K. is entitled to the benefits of the U.K. Treaty, and certain other requirements are met. Endurance U.S. Reinsurance, Endurance American, Endurance American Specialty and Endurance Risk Solutions are Delaware corporations and ARMtech is a Texas corporation. Each will be subject to taxation in the United States at regular corporate rates. Dividends paid by Endurance U.S. Holdings Corp. to Endurance Bermuda will be subject to U.S. withholding tax at the rate of 30%. United States Taxation of Holders of Ordinary Shares and Series A Preferred Shares Shareholders Who Are U.S. Persons Dividends. Distributions with respect to ordinary shares and Series A Preferred Shares (including the payment of additional amounts, in the case of the Series A Preferred Shares) will be treated as ordinary dividend income to the extent of Endurance Holdings’ current or accumulated earnings and profits as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes, subject to the discussion below relating to the potential application of the “controlled foreign corporation,” “related person insurance income” and “passive foreign investment company” rules. These dividends should constitute “qualified dividend income” as defined in Section 1(h)(11)(B) of the Code and, thus, should be entitled to the maximum marginal preferential federal income tax rate of 15% applicable to “qualified dividends” received before January 1, 2013 by certain shareholders (such as individuals), provided that certain holding period requirements are satisfied and certain other conditions are met, and provided further that we are not considered a PFIC. This preferential tax rate is subject to increase for dividends paid after such date. 48 Table of Contents Distributions with respect to Endurance Holdings’ ordinary shares and Series A Preferred Shares will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction allowed to U.S. corporations under the Code. The amount of any distribution that exceeds Endurance Holdings’ current and accumulated earnings and profits first will be treated as a tax free return of capital; reducing a holder’s tax basis in the ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares with regard to which the distribution was made and any amount in excess of such tax basis will be treated as gain from the sale or exchange of such holder’s shares. Classification of Endurance Holdings, Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda as a Controlled Foreign Corporation. Each “10% U.S. Shareholder” of a foreign corporation that is a controlled foreign corporation (“CFC”) for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during a taxable year, and who owns shares in the CFC directly or indirectly through foreign entities, in such corporation on the last day, in such year, in which such corporation is a CFC must include in its gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of the CFC’s “subpart F income,” even if the subpart F income is not distributed. A foreign corporation is considered a CFC if “10% U.S. Shareholders” own (directly, indirectly through foreign entities or constructively pursuant to the application of certain constructive ownership rules) more than 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of voting stock of such foreign corporation, or the total value of all stock of such corporation. A 10% U.S. Shareholder is a U.S. Person who owns at least 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote of the foreign corporation. The Series A Preferred Shares should not be considered voting stock for purposes of determining whether a U.S. Person would be a “10% U.S. Shareholder” unless and until there exists a Nonpayment Event which triggers the Series A Preferred Shareholders’ right to elect two additional directors to the Board of Directors of Endurance Holdings. In such case, the Series A Preferred Shares should be treated as voting stock for as long as such right continues. For purposes of taking into account insurance income, a CFC also includes a foreign corporation in which more than 25% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock (or more than 25% of the total value of the stock) is owned (directly, indirectly through foreign entities or constructively pursuant to the application of certain constructive ownership rules) by 10% U.S. Shareholders, on any day during the taxable year of such corporation, if the gross amount of premiums or other consideration for the reinsurance or the issuing of insurance contracts exceeds 75% of the gross amount of all premiums or other consideration in respect of all risks. Due to the anticipated dispersion of Endurance Holdings’ share ownership among holders, its bye-law provisions that impose limitations on the concentration of voting power of any shares that are entitled to vote and authorize the board to repurchase such shares under certain circumstances and other factors, no U.S. Person that owns shares in Endurance Holdings directly or indirectly through foreign entities should be subject to treatment as a 10% U.S. Shareholder of a CFC. There can be no assurance, however, that the IRS will not challenge the effectiveness of these provisions for purposes of preventing 10% U.S. Shareholder status and that a court will not sustain such challenge. RPII Companies. The CFC rules also apply to certain insurance companies that earn “related person insurance income.” (“RPII”). If the RPII rules were to apply to Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda, a U.S. Person who owns ordinary shares or Series A Preferred shares of Endurance Holdings, directly or indirectly through foreign entities on the last day of the company’s taxable year would be required to include in its gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of Endurance U.K.’s or Endurance Bermuda’s RPII for the entire taxable year, regardless of whether such RPII is distributed. For purposes of the RPII rules, Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda will be treated as a CFC if “RPII Shareholders” collectively own directly, indirectly through foreign entities or by application of the constructive ownership rules 25% or more of the stock of Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda by vote or value. RPII is defined as any “insurance income” attributable to policies of insurance or reinsurance with respect to which the person (directly or indirectly) insured is a “RPII Shareholder” of the foreign corporation or a “related person” to such RPII Shareholder. In general, and subject to certain limitations, “insurance income” is income (including premium and investment income) attributable to the issuing of any insurance or reinsurance contract which would be taxed under the portions of the Code relating to insurance companies if the income were the income of a domestic insurance company. A “RPII Shareholder” is any U.S. Person who owns, directly or indirectly through foreign entities, any amount (rather than stock possessing 10% or more of the total combined voting power) of Endurance U.K.’s or Endurance Bermuda’s stock, and “related person” means someone who controls or is controlled by the RPII Shareholder or someone who is controlled by the same person or persons which control the RPII Shareholder. “Control” is measured by either more than 50% in value or more than 50% in voting power of stock, applying constructive ownership principles. A corporation’s pension plan is ordinarily not a “related person” with respect to the corporation unless the pension plan owns, directly or indirectly through the application of constructive ownership rules, more than 50%, measured by vote or value, of the stock of the corporation. 49 Table of Contents RPII Exceptions. The special RPII rules do not apply if (i) direct or indirect insureds and persons related to such insureds, whether or not U.S. Persons, own, directly or indirectly, less than 20% of the voting power and less than 20% of the value of the stock of Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda, as applicable (the “20% Ownership Exception”), (ii) RPII, determined on a gross basis, is less than 20% of Endurance U.K.’s or Endurance Bermuda’s gross insurance income for the taxable year, as applicable (the “20% Gross Income Exception”), (iii) Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda elects to be taxed on its RPII as if the RPII were effectively connected with the conduct of a U.S. trade or business and to waive all treaty benefits with respect to RPII and meets certain other requirements or (iv) Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda elects to be treated as a U.S. corporation. Endurance Bermuda and Endurance U.K. intend to operate in a manner that is intended to ensure that each qualifies for the 20% Gross Income Exception. It is possible that neither Endurance Bermuda nor Endurance U.K. will be successful in qualifying under this exception. If none of these exceptions applies, each U.S. Person who owns shares in Endurance Holdings (and therefore, indirectly in Endurance U.K. and Endurance Bermuda) on the last day of Endurance Holdings’ taxable year, will be required to include in its gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its share of RPII of Endurance U.K. and/or Endurance Bermuda for the entire taxable year. This inclusion will be determined as if such RPII were distributed proportionately only to such U.S. Persons holding shares in Endurance Holdings at that date. The inclusion will be limited to the current-year earnings and profits of Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda, as applicable, reduced by the shareholder’s pro rata share, if any, of certain prior year deficits in earnings and profits. Basis Adjustments. A RPII Shareholder’s tax basis in its Endurance Holdings ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares, as the case may be, will be increased by the amount of any RPII or other subpart F income that the shareholder includes in income. Any distributions made by Endurance Holdings out of previously taxed RPII or other subpart F income will be exempt from further tax in the hands of the RPII Shareholder. The RPII Shareholder’s tax basis in its Endurance Holdings shares will be reduced by the amount of any distributions that are excluded from income under this rule. Uncertainty as to Application of RPII. Regulations interpreting the RPII provisions of the Code exist only in proposed form. It is not certain whether these regulations will be adopted in their proposed form or what changes might ultimately be made or whether any such changes, as well as any interpretation or application of the RPII rules by the IRS, the courts or otherwise, might have retroactive effect. Accordingly, the meaning of the RPII provisions and their application to Endurance U.K. and Endurance Bermuda is uncertain. These provisions include the grant of authority to the U.S. Treasury to prescribe “such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this subsection, including regulations preventing the avoidance of this subsection through cross insurance arrangements or otherwise.” In addition, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge any determinations by Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda as to the amount, if any, of RPII that should be includible in income or that the amounts of the RPII inclusions will not be subject to adjustment based upon subsequent IRS examination. Prospective investors should consult their tax advisors as to the effects of these uncertainties. Information Reporting. Under certain circumstances, U.S. Persons owning stock in a foreign corporation are required to file IRS Form 5471 with their U.S. federal income tax returns. Generally, information reporting on IRS Form 5471 is required with respect to (i) a person who is treated as a RPII Shareholder, (ii) a 10% U.S. Shareholder of a foreign corporation that is a CFC for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during any tax year of the foreign corporation, and who owned the stock on the last of that year and (iii) under certain circumstances, a U.S. Person who acquires stock in a foreign corporation, and as a result thereof owns 10% or more of the voting power or value of such foreign corporation, whether or not such foreign corporation is a CFC. For any taxable year in which Endurance Holdings determines that gross RPII constitutes 20% or more of Endurance U.K.’s or Endurance Bermuda’s gross insurance income and the 20% Ownership Exception does not apply, Endurance Holdings intends to mail to all U.S. Persons registered as holders of its ordinary shares and Series A Preferred Shares IRS Form 5471, completed with information from Endurance Holdings, for attachment to the U.S. federal income tax returns of such shareholders. A tax-exempt organization that is treated as a 10% U.S. Shareholder or a RPII Shareholder also must file IRS Form 5471 in the circumstances described above. Failure to file IRS Form 5471 may result in penalties. Tax-Exempt Shareholders. Tax-exempt entities will be required to treat certain subpart F insurance income, including RPII that is includible in income by the tax-exempt entity as unrelated business taxable income. 50 Table of Contents Dispositions of Ordinary Shares and Series A Preferred Shares. Subject to the discussion below relating to the redemption of Series A Preferred Shares or the potential application of Code Section 1248 or the “PFIC” rules, any gain or loss realized by a U.S. Person on the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares will be subject to U.S. federal income taxation as capital gain or loss in an amount equal to the difference between the amount realized upon such sale or exchange and such person’s tax basis in the shares. If the holding period for these shares exceeds one year at the time of the disposition, any gain will be subject to tax at a current maximum marginal tax rate of 15% for individuals (subject to increase in 2013 without any Congressional action) and 35% for corporations. Moreover, gain, if any, generally will be U.S. source gain and generally will constitute “passive income” for foreign tax credit limitation purposes. Code Section 1248 provides that if a U.S. Person sells or exchanges stock in a foreign corporation and such person owned directly, indirectly through certain foreign entities or constructively 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation at any time during the five-year period ending on the date of disposition when the corporation was a CFC, any gain from the sale or exchange of the shares will be treated as ordinary income to the extent of the CFC’s earnings and profits (determined under U.S. federal income tax principles) during the period that the shareholder held the shares and while the corporation was a CFC (with certain adjustments). A 10% U.S. Shareholder may in certain circumstances be required to report a disposition of shares of a CFC by attaching IRS Form 5471 to the U.S. federal income tax or information return that it would normally file for the taxable year in which the disposition occurs. For these purposes, the Series A Preferred Shares should not be considered as having voting power unless and until there exists a Nonpayment Event which triggers the Series A Preferred Shareholders’ right to elect two additional directors to the Board of Directors of Endurance Holdings. In such case, the Series A Preferred Shares should be treated as voting stock for as long as such right continues. Code Section 1248 also applies to the sale or exchange of shares in a foreign corporation if the foreign corporation would be treated as a CFC for RPII purposes and would be taxed as an insurance company if it were a domestic corporation, regardless of whether the shareholder is a 10% U.S. Shareholder or whether the 20% Gross Income Exception or the 20% Ownership Exception applies. Regulations do not specifically address whether or how Code Section 1248 would apply to dispositions of shares of stock in a foreign corporation that is not a CFC and does not directly engage in the insurance business, but has a subsidiary that is a CFC and that would be taxed as an insurance company if it were a domestic corporation. The Company believes, however, that the application of Code Section 1248 under the RPII rules should not apply to the disposition of ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares because Endurance Holdings is not directly engaged in the insurance business. There can be no assurance, however, that the IRS will not interpret the regulations in a contrary manner or that the U.S. Treasury Department will not amend the regulations to provide that these rules will apply to dispositions of our ordinary shares and Series A Preferred Shares. Prospective investors should consult their tax advisors regarding the effects of these rules on a disposition of our shares. Redemption of Series A Preferred Shares. Subject to the discussion herein relating to the application of the RPII and PFIC rules, under Section 302 of the Code, a redemption of the Series A Preferred Shares will be treated as a dividend to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, unless such redemption satisfies the tests set forth under Section 302(b) of the Code, which would treat the redemption as a sale or exchange subject to taxation as described above under “Dispositions of Ordinary Shares and Series A Preferred Shares.” A redemption will be treated as a sale or exchange if: (i) it is “substantially disproportionate,” (ii) constitutes a “complete termination of the holder’s stock interest” in us, or (iii) is “not essentially equivalent to a dividend”, each within the meaning of Section 302(b) of the Code. In determining whether any of these tests are satisfied, shares considered to be owned by a U.S. Person by reason of certain constructive ownership rules set forth in the Code, as well as shares actually owned, must generally be taken into account. Because the determination as to whether any of the alternative tests of Section 302(b) of the Code is satisfied with respect to a particular holder of the Series A Preferred Shares will depend on the facts and circumstances as of the time the determination is made, U.S. shareholders should consult their tax advisors, at such time, to determine their tax treatment in light of their particular circumstances. Passive Foreign Investment Companies. In general, a foreign corporation will be a PFIC during a given year if (i) 75% or more of its gross income constitutes “passive income” or (ii) 50% or more of its assets produce passive income. 51 Table of Contents If Endurance Holdings were characterized as a PFIC during a given year, U.S. Persons owning ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares would be subject to a penalty tax at the time of the sale at a gain of, or receipt of an “excess distribution” with respect to, their shares, unless such shareholders made a “qualified electing fund election” or “mark-to-market” election. It is uncertain that Endurance Holdings would be able to provide its shareholders with the information necessary for a U.S. Person to make the elections. In general, a shareholder receives an “excess distribution” if the amount of the distribution is more than 125% of the average distribution with respect to the shares during the three preceding taxable years (or shorter period during which the taxpayer held the shares). In general, the penalty tax is equivalent to an interest charge on taxes that are deemed due during the period the shareholder owned the shares, computed by assuming that the excess distribution or gain (in the case of a sale) with respect to the shares was taxed in equal portions at the highest applicable tax rate on ordinary income throughout the shareholder’s period of ownership. The interest charge is equal to the applicable rate imposed on underpayments of U.S. federal income tax for such period. For the above purposes, passive income generally includes interest, dividends, annuities and other investment income. The PFIC statutory provisions, however, contain an express exception for income derived in the active conduct of an insurance business by a corporation which is predominantly engaged in an insurance business. This exception is intended to ensure that income derived by a bona fide insurance company is not treated as passive income, except to the extent such income is attributable to financial reserves in excess of the reasonable needs of the insurance business. Endurance Holdings expects for purposes of the PFIC rules that each of Endurance U.K. and Endurance Bermuda will be predominantly engaged in an insurance business and is unlikely to have financial reserves in excess of the reasonable needs of its insurance business. Accordingly, neither expects to be treated as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. There can be no assurances, however, that this will be the case. The PFIC statutory provisions contain a look-through rule stating that, for purposes of determining whether a foreign corporation is a PFIC, such foreign corporation shall be treated as if it received directly its proportionate share of the income and as if it held its proportionate share of the assets of any other corporation in which it owns at least 25% by value of the shares. While no explicit guidance is provided by the statutory language, under this look-through rule Endurance Holdings should be deemed to own the assets and to have received the income of its insurance subsidiaries directly for purposes of determining whether it qualifies for the insurance exception. Consequently, Endurance Holdings does not expect to be treated as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This interpretation of the look-through rule is consistent with the legislative intention generally to exclude bona fide insurance companies from the application of PFIC provision. Nevertheless, there are currently no Treasury regulations regarding the application of the PFIC provisions to an insurance company, and new Treasury regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying these rules may be forthcoming. In addition, the determination of PFIC status is fundamentally factual in nature, depends on the application of complex U.S. federal income tax rules that are subject to differing interpretations, and generally cannot be determined until the close of the taxable year in question. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge this position or that a court will not sustain such challenge. Prospective investors should consult their tax advisor as to the effects of the PFIC rules. Other. Except as discussed below with respect to backup withholding, dividends paid by Endurance Holdings will not be subject to U.S. withholding tax. Information Reporting and Backup Withholding. Information returns may be filed with the IRS in connection with payments of dividends with respect to our ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares and the proceeds from a sale or other disposition of the shares unless the shareholder establishes an exemption from the information reporting rules. A U.S. Person holding our ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares that does not establish such an exemption may be subject to U.S. backup withholding tax on these payments if the holder fails to provide its taxpayer identification number or otherwise comply with the backup withholding rules. The amount of any backup withholding from a payment to a U.S. Person will be allowed as a credit against the U.S. Person’s U.S. federal income tax liability and may entitle such person to a refund, provided that the required information is furnished to the IRS. Shareholders Who Are Non-U.S. Persons Dividends and Disposition. In general (and subject to the discussion below under “Information Reporting and Backup Withholding”), a Non-U.S. Person will not be subject to U.S. federal income or withholding tax with respect to payments of dividends on, or gain upon the disposition of, our ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares unless (i) the dividends or gain is effectively connected with the conduct by the Non-U.S. Person of a trade or business in the United States or (ii) in the case of gain upon the disposition of shares, the Non-U.S. Person is an individual who is present in the United States for 183 days or more in the taxable year and certain other conditions are met. Nonresident alien individuals will not be subject to U.S. estate tax with respect to our ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares. 52 Table of Contents Dividends or gain that is effectively connected with the conduct by a Non-U.S. Person of a trade or business in the United States generally will be subject to regular U.S. federal income tax in the same manner as if it were realized by a U.S. Person. In addition, if such Non-US. Person is a non-US. corporation, such dividends or gain may be subject to a branch profits tax at a rate of 30% (or such lower rate as is provided by an applicable income tax treaty). Information Reporting and Backup Withholding. If our ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares are held by a Non-U.S. Person through a non-U.S. (and non-U.S. related) broker or financial institution, information reporting and backup withholding generally would not be required. Information reporting, and possibly backup withholding, may apply if the shares are held by a Non-U.S. Person through a U.S. (or U.S. related) broker or financial institution and the Non-U.S. Person fails to provide appropriate information. Non-U.S. Persons should consult their tax advisors concerning the application of the information reporting and backup withholding rules. AVAILABLE INFORMATION General information about us, including our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and the charters for the Audit, Compensation, Investment, Nominating and Corporate Governance, Risk and Underwriting Committees of our Board of Directors, can be found on our website at www.endurance.bm. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments and exhibits to those reports, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with, or furnish them to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC (including Endurance) and the address of that site is www.sec.gov. Any of the above referenced documents can also be obtained in print, free of charge, by contacting the Secretary at Endurance Specialty Holdings Ltd., Wellesley House, 90 Pitts Bay Road, Pembroke HM08, Bermuda. Information on our website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K or our other securities filings and is not a part of these filings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company had no outstanding, unresolved comments from the SEC staff at December 31, 2010. 