RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Company Our business depends, in part, on factors affecting consumer spending that are out of our control. Our business depends on consumer demand for our products and, consequently, is sensitive to a number of factors that influence consumer spending, including general economic conditions, consumer confidence in future economic conditions and political conditions, recession and fears of recession, consumer debt, disposable consumer income, conditions in the housing market, consumer perceptions of personal well-being and security, fuel prices, inclement weather, interest rates, sales tax rate increases, inflation, and war and fears of war. In particular, the economic downturn over the past two years has lead to decreased discretionary spending, which adversely impacted the luxury retail business and lead to declining revenues and losses for our business. Jewelry purchases are discretionary for consumers and may be particularly and disproportionately affected by adverse trends in the general economy and the equity markets. Continued adverse changes in factors affecting discretionary consumer spending could further reduce consumer demand for our products, resulting in a continued reduction in our sales and further harming our business and operating results. A substantial portion of our customers use credit, either from our private label and proprietary credit cards or another consumer credit source, to purchase jewelry. When there is a downturn in the general economy, fewer people may use or be approved for credit, which could result in a reduction in net sales and/or an increase in bad debt, which in turn, could lead to an unfavorable impact on our overall profitability. Our belief that we currently have sufficient liquidity to fund our operations is based on certain assumptions about the future state of the economy, the future availability of borrowings to fund our operations and our future operating performance. To the extent that the economy and other conditions affecting our business are significantly worse than we anticipate, we may not achieve our projected level of financial performance and we may determine that we do not have sufficient capital to fund our operations. We may require additional financing or capital, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Capital raised through the sale or issuance of equity securities may result in dilution to our shareholders. Failure to obtain such additional financing or capital could have an adverse impact on our liquidity and financial condition. Within the last two years, the general economic and capital market conditions in the United States and other parts of the world have deteriorated significantly and have adversely affected access to and the cost of capital. There is a possibility that our existing cash, cash generated from operations and funds available under our credit agreements may be insufficient to fund our future operations, including capital expenditures, or to repay debt when it becomes due, and as a result, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing, including funding from governmental sources, which may not be possible. The sale of additional equity securities could result in significant dilution to our shareholders, and the securities issued in future financings may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our common stock. The incurrence of additional indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that may restrict our operations. Financing may be unavailable in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, or at all, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, including our ability to continue as a going concern. 4 Table of Contents We have significant indebtedness, which could adversely affect our operations, liquidity and financial condition. We currently have a significant amount of indebtedness and significant debt service obligations in proportion to our assets. Our debt levels fluctuate from time to time based on seasonal working capital needs. The following table sets forth our total indebtedness, total shareholders’ equity, total capitalization and ratio of total indebtedness to total capitalization as of March 27, 2010: Total indebtedness $ 118,244,000 Total shareholders’ equity 18,387,000 Total capitalization $ 136,631,000 Ratio of total indebtedness to total capitalization 86.5 % This high degree of leverage could adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash from operations to the payment of debt service, thereby reducing the availability of cash to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate purposes or acquisitions; • create additional risk to us and our shareholders if we were unable to renew our credit facilities under similar terms and conditions; • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have a lower degree of leverage; and • negatively affect the price of our stock. Significant restrictions on our excess borrowing capacity could result in our inability to fund our cash flow requirements needed to support our day-to-day operations. Our ability to fund our operations and meet our cash flow requirements in order to fund our operations is dependant upon our ability to maintain positive excess availability under our senior credit facilities. Both our senior secured revolving credit facility lender and our senior secured term loan lender may impose, at any time, discretionary reserves, which would lower the level of borrowing availability under our senior secured revolving credit facility (customary for asset based loans), at their reasonable discretion, to: i) ensure that we maintain adequate liquidity for the operation of our business, ii) cover any deterioration in the amount or value of the collateral, and iii) reflect impediments to the lenders to realize upon the collateral. There is no limit to the amount of discretionary reserves that our senior secured revolving credit facility lender may impose at its reasonable discretion, however, our senior secured term loan lender’s ability to impose discretionary reserves at its reasonable discretion is limited to 5% of the senior secured credit facility availability. From February 11, 2009 to February 23, 2009, the senior secured term loan lender imposed a discretionary reserve of $4 million. While our senior secured revolving credit facility lender has not historically imposed such a restriction, it is uncertain whether conditions could change and cause such a reserve to be imposed in the future. In addition, the value of our inventory is periodically assessed by our lenders and, based upon these reviews, our borrowing capacity could be significantly increased or decreased. Another factor impacting our excess availability includes, among others, changes in the U.S. and Canadian dollar exchange rate, which could increase or decrease our borrowing availability. Furthermore, a $15 million, a $7.5 million and a $2.5 million seasonal availability block is imposed by the senior secured revolving credit facility lender and the senior secured term loan lender each year from December 20th to January 20th; from January 21st to February 10th and from February 11th to February 20th, 5 Table of Contents respectively, and both our senior secured revolving credit facility and our senior secured term loan are subject to cross default provisions with all other loans, by which if we are in default with any other loan, the default will immediately apply to both the senior secured revolving credit facility and the senior secured term loan. We are exposed to currency exchange risks that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. While we report financial results in U.S. dollars, a substantial portion of our sales are recorded in Canadian dollars. For our operations located in Canada, non-Canadian currency transactions and assets and liabilities subject us to foreign currency risk. Conversely, for the operations located in the U.S., non-U.S. currency transactions and assets and liabilities subject us to foreign currency risk. In addition, material fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, resulting in a weakening of the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar, could significantly reduce our borrowing availability under our secured revolving credit facility, which is denominated in U.S. dollars, and limit our ability to finance our operations. For purposes of financial reporting, our financial statements are reported in U.S. dollars by translating, where necessary, net sales and expenses from Canadian dollars at the average exchange rates prevailing during the period, while assets and liabilities are translated at year-end exchange rates, with the effect of such translation recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. As a result, for purposes of financial reporting, foreign exchange gains or losses recorded in earnings relate to non-Canadian dollar transactions of the operations located in Canada and non-U.S. dollar transactions of the operations located in the U.S. We expect to continue to report our financial results in U.S. dollars in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Consequently, our reported earnings could fluctuate materially as a result of foreign exchange translation gains or losses. We may not successfully manage our inventory, which could have an adverse effect on our net sales, profitability, cash flow and liquidity. As a retail business, our results of operations are dependent on our ability to manage our inventory. To properly manage our inventory, we must be able to accurately estimate customer demand and supply requirements and purchase new inventory accordingly. If we fail to sell the inventory we manufacture or purchase, we may be required to write-down our inventory or pay our vendors without new purchases, creating additional vendor financing, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings and cash flows. Additionally, a portion of the merchandise we sell is carried on a consignment basis prior to sale or is otherwise financed by vendors, which reduces our required capital investment in inventory. Any significant change in these consignment or vendor financing relationships could have a material adverse effect on our net sales, cash flows and liquidity. Our credit business may be adversely affected by changes in applicable laws and regulations. The operation of our credit business subjects us to substantial regulation relating to disclosure and other requirements upon origination, servicing, debt collection and particularly upon the amount of finance charges we can impose. Any adverse change in the regulation of consumer credit could adversely affect our earnings. For example, new laws or regulations could limit the amount of interest or fees we, or our banks, can charge on consumer loan accounts, or restrict our ability to collect on account balances, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. Compliance with existing and future laws or regulations could require material expenditures or otherwise adversely affect our business or financial results. Failure to comply with these laws or regulations, even if inadvertent, could result in negative publicity, and fines, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected if our relationships with any primary vendors are terminated or if the delivery of their products is delayed or interrupted. We compete with other jewelry retailers for access to vendors that will provide us with the quality and quantity of merchandise necessary to operate our business, and our merchandising strategy depends upon our 6 Table of Contents ability to maintain good relations with significant vendors. Certain brand name watch manufacturers, including Rolex, have distribution agreements with our subsidiary Mayors that, among other things, provide for specific sales locations, yearly renewal terms and early termination provisions at the manufacturer’s discretion. In fiscal 2010, merchandise supplied by Rolex and sold through our stores operating under the Mayors and Brinkhaus brands accounted for approximately 22% of our total net sales. Our relationships with primary suppliers, like Rolex, are generally not pursuant to long-term agreements. We obtain materials and manufactured items from third-party suppliers. Any delay or interruption in our suppliers’ abilities to provide us with necessary materials and components may affect our manufacturing capabilities or may require us to seek alternative supply sources. Any delay or interruption in receiving supplies could impair our ability to supply products to our stores and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The abrupt loss of any of our third-party suppliers, especially Rolex, or a decline in the quality or quantity of materials supplied by any third-party suppliers could cause significant disruption in our business. Fluctuations in the availability and prices of our raw materials and finished goods may adversely affect our results of operations. We offer a large selection of distinctive high quality merchandise, including diamond, gemstone and precious metal jewelry, rings, wedding bands, earrings, bracelets, necklaces, charms, timepieces and gifts. Accordingly, significant changes in the availability or prices of diamonds, gemstones, and precious metals we require for our products could adversely affect our earnings. Further, both the supply and price of diamonds are significantly influenced by a single entity, the Diamond Trading Corporation. We do not maintain long-term inventories or otherwise hedge a material portion of the price of raw materials. A significant increase in the price of these materials could adversely affect our net sales and gross margins. We are controlled by a single shareholder whose interests may be different from yours. The Goldfish Trust beneficially owns or controls 67.8% of all classes of our outstanding voting shares, which are directly owned by Montrovest B.V. (“Montrovest”), the former parent company of Iniziativa S.A. (“Iniziativa”) and Montrolux S.A. (“Montrolux”). Until May 2007, 63.4% of our outstanding voting shares were directly owned by Iniziativa. As of June 2007, 31.2% was directly owned by Montrolux. The trustee of the Goldfish Trust is Rohan Private Trust Company Limited (the “Trustee”). Dr. Lorenzo Rossi di Montelera, who is the Company’s Chairman of the Board, is a director of the Trustee, and a beneficiary of the Goldfish Trust. Under our amended charter, Montrovest, as holder of the Class B multiple voting shares, has the ability to control most actions requiring shareholder approval, including electing the members of our Board of Directors and the issuance of new equity. Dr. Rossi, in certain circumstances, may be delegated the authority from the Trustee to vote on shares held by Montrovest. The Trustee and Montrovest may have different interests than you have and may make decisions that do not correspond to your interests. In addition, the fact that we are controlled by one shareholder may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our management or voting control. We may not be able to retain key personnel or replace them if they leave. Our success is largely dependent on the personal efforts of Thomas A. Andruskevich, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and other key members of the senior management team. Although we have entered into employment agreements with Mr. Andruskevich and other key members of our senior management team, the loss of any of their services could cause our business to suffer. Our success is also dependent upon our ability to continue to hire and retain qualified financial, operations, development and other personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the retail industry is intense, and we may not be able to hire or retain the personnel necessary for our planned operations. 7 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully negotiate favorable lease terms. As of March 27, 2010, we had 64 leased retail stores, which includes the capital lease of our Canadian headquarters and Montreal flagship store. The leases are generally for a term of five to ten years, with rent being a fixed minimum base plus, for a majority of the stores, a percentage of the store’s sale volume (subject to some adjustments) over a specified threshold. We have generally been successful in negotiating leases for new stores and lease renewals as our current leases near expiration. However, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be adversely affected if we are unable to continue to negotiate favorable lease and renewal terms. Hurricanes and other severe weather conditions could cause a disruption in our operations, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Our U.S. operations are located in Georgia and Florida, regions that are susceptible to hurricanes. In the past, hurricanes have forced the closure of some of our stores, resulting in a reduction in net sales during such periods. Future hurricanes could significantly disrupt our U.S. operations and could have a material adverse effect on our overall results of operations. In addition, severe weather such as ice storms, snow storms and blizzards in Canada can cause conditions whereby peak holiday shopping could be materially affected. Terrorist acts or other catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on Birks & Mayors. Terrorist acts, acts of war or hostility, natural disasters or other catastrophic events could have an immediate disproportionate impact on discretionary spending on luxury goods upon which our operations are dependent. For example, in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks carried out on September 11, 2001, tourism and business travel was significantly reduced in all of our markets, which had an adverse impact on our net sales. Similarly, the SARS epidemic in Toronto, Ontario in the spring of 2003 had an adverse impact on net sales in our stores in that region. Tourism and business travel may decrease considerably in Florida due to the current oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, which may have an adverse impact on our net sales. Similar future events could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property and may be required to engage in costly litigation as a protective measure. To establish and protect our intellectual property rights, we rely upon a combination of trademark and trade secret laws, together with licenses, exclusivity agreements and other contractual covenants. In particular, the “Birks” and “Mayors” trademarks are of significant value to our retail operations. The measures we take to protect our intellectual property rights may prove inadequate to prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property. Monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, may result in counterclaims or other claims against us and could significantly harm our results of operations. Risks Related to Class A Voting Shares Our share price could be adversely affected if a large number of Class A voting shares are offered for sale or sold. Future issuances or sales of a substantial number of our Class A voting shares by us, Montrovest, or another significant shareholder in the public market could adversely affect the price of our Class A voting shares, which may impair our ability to raise capital through future issuances of equity securities. As of May 31, 2010, we had 3,672,407 Class A voting shares issued and outstanding. Sales of restricted securities in the public market, or the availability of these Class A voting shares for sale, could adversely affect the market price of Class A voting shares. 8 Table of Contents As a retail jeweler with a limited public float, the price of our Class A voting shares may fluctuate substantially, which could negatively affect the value of our Class A voting shares and could result in securities class action claims against us. The price of our Class A voting shares may fluctuate substantially due to, among other things, the following factors: (1) fluctuations in the price of the shares of the small number of public companies in the retail jewelry business; (2) additions or departures of key personnel; (3) announcements of legal proceedings or regulatory matters; and (4) general volatility in the stock market. The market price of our Class A voting shares could also fluctuate substantially if we fail to meet or exceed expectations for our financial results or if there is a change in financial estimates or securities analysts’ recommendations. Significant price and value fluctuations have occurred in the past with respect to the securities of retail jewelry and related companies. In addition, because the public float of our Class A voting shares is relatively small, the market price of our Class A voting shares is likely to be volatile. There is limited trading volume in our Class A voting shares, rendering them subject to significant price volatility. In addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that has affected the market prices of equity securities of many companies, and that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. A number of other factors, many of which are beyond our control, could also cause the market price of our Class A voting shares to fluctuate substantially. In the past, following periods of downward volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, class action litigation has often been pursued. If our Class A voting shares were similarly volatile and litigation were pursued against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. We are governed by the laws of Canada, and, as a result, it may not be possible for shareholders to enforce civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the U.S. We are governed by the laws of Canada. A substantial portion of our assets are located outside the U.S. and some of our directors and officers are residents outside of the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service within the U.S. upon us or our directors and officers, or to realize in the U.S. upon judgments of courts of the U.S. predicated upon civil liability of Birks & Mayors and such directors or officers under U.S. federal securities laws. There is doubt as to the enforceability in Canada by a court in original actions, or in actions to enforce judgments of U.S. courts, of the civil liabilities predicated upon U.S. federal securities laws. We expect to maintain our status as a “foreign private issuer” under the rules and regulations of the SEC and, thus, are exempt from a number of rules under the Exchange Act of 1934 and are permitted to file less information with the SEC than a company incorporated in the U.S. As a “foreign private issuer,” we are exempt from rules under the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“the Exchange Act”) that impose certain disclosure and procedural requirements for proxy solicitations under Section 14 of the Exchange Act. In addition, our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and “short-swing” profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules under the Exchange Act with respect to their purchases and sales of our Class A voting shares. Moreover, we are not required to file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as U.S. companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act, nor are we required to comply with Regulation FD, which restricts the selective disclosure of material information. Accordingly, there may be less publicly available information concerning us than there is for U.S. public companies. If we were treated as a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC, some holders of our Class A voting shares would be subject to additional taxation, which could cause the price of our Class A voting shares to decline. We believe that our Class A voting shares should not be treated as stock of a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and we expect to continue operations in such a manner that we will not be a PFIC. If, however, we 9 Table of Contents are or become a PFIC, some holders of our Class A voting shares could be subject to additional U.S. federal income taxes on gains recognized with respect to our Class A voting shares and on certain distributions, plus an interest charge on certain taxes treated as having been deferred under the PFIC rules. Our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting may identify “material weaknesses” in the future and may result in an attestation with an adverse or qualified opinion from our independent auditors, which could reduce confidence in our financial statements and negatively affect the price of our securities. We are subject to reporting obligations under U.S. securities laws. Beginning with our Annual Report on Form 20-F for fiscal 2008, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to prepare a management report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our management may conclude that our internal control over our financial reporting is not effective. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, beginning with our Annual Report for fiscal 2011, our Annual Report must also contain a statement that our independent auditors have issued an attestation report on their assessment of such internal control. Our independent registered public accounting firm may issue an adverse report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or may issue a report that is qualified if it is not satisfied with our controls or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. If at any time in the future, we or our independent auditors are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, market perception of our financial condition and the trading price of our stock may be adversely affected and customer perception of our business may suffer, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. 