Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors and all other information contained in this report should be considered carefully when evaluating us. These risk factors could affect our actual results. Other risks and uncertainties, in addition to those that are described below, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be affected materially and adversely. In that case, we may be unable to make distributions to our unitholders and the trading price of our common units could decline. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other detailed information concerning us set forth in our accompanying financial statements and notes and contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included herein. Risks Inherent In Our Business We may not be able to obtain funding or obtain funding on acceptable terms because of the deterioration of the credit and capital markets. This may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile, which has caused a substantial deterioration in the credit and capital markets. These conditions, along with significant write-offs in the financial services sector and the re-pricing of credit risk, have made, and will likely continue to make, it difficult to obtain funding for our capital needs. 20 Table of Contents Beginning in the second half of 2008, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets has diminished significantly. In particular, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of lending counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity at all or on terms similar to borrowers’ current debt and reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that new debt or equity financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due. Moreover, without adequate funding, we may be unable to execute our growth strategy, complete future acquisitions or future construction projects or other capital expenditures, take advantage of other business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Further, our customers may increase collateral requirements from us or reduce the business they transact with us to reduce their credit exposure to us. Due to current economic conditions, our ability to obtain funding under our bank credit facility could be impaired. We operate in a capital-intensive industry and rely on our bank credit facility to finance a significant portion of our capital expenditures. Our ability to borrow under our bank credit facility may be impaired because of the recent downturn in the financial markets, including issues surrounding the solvency of many institutional lenders and recent failures of several banks. Specifically, we may be unable to obtain adequate funding under our bank credit facility because: • one or more of our lenders may be unable or otherwise fail to meet its funding obligations; • the lenders do not have to provide funding if there is a default under the credit agreement or if any of the representations or warranties included in the agreement are false in any material respect; and • if any lender refuses to fund its commitment for any reason, whether or not valid, the other lenders are not required to provide additional funding to make up for the unfunded portion. On February 27, 2009, we entered into an amendment to our bank credit facility, revising certain financial and other restrictive covenants under this facility through its maturity date. See Item 1, “Business—Amendments to Credit Documents.” There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with any newly-negotiated covenants in the future or that we will be able to obtain waivers or amendments of these covenants in the event of future noncompliance. If we are not in compliance with these covenants, and if we are unable to secure necessary waivers or other amendments from the counterparties, we will not have access to our bank credit facility, which could significantly affect our ability to meet our expenses and operate our business. Further, such noncompliance could cause a default under the bank credit facility, which could result in acceleration of our outstanding debt. If we are unable to access funds under our bank credit facility, we will need to meet our capital requirements, including some of our short-term capital requirements, using other sources. Due to current economic conditions, alternative sources of liquidity may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If the cash generated from our operations or the funds we are able to obtain under our bank credit facility or other sources of liquidity are not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, then we may need to delay or abandon capital projects or other business opportunities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, if the current pressures on credit continue or worsen, we may not be able to refinance our then-outstanding debt or replace our then-outstanding letters of credit when due, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We will not be able to pay cash distributions until our financial condition improves. Our bank credit facility and senior secured note agreement contain covenants which limit our ability to make distributions to unitholders so long as we do not meet certain financial ratios and tests. Under the amended bank 21 Table of Contents credit facility and senior secured note agreement, we may not make quarterly distributions to our unitholders unless the PIK notes have been repaid and the leverage ratio, as defined in the agreements, is less than 4.25 to 1.00. If the leverage ratio is between 4.00 to 1.00 and 4.25 to 1.00, we may make the minimum quarterly distribution of up to $0.25 per unit if the PIK notes have been repaid. If the leverage ratio is less than 4.00 to 1.00, we may make quarterly distributions to unitholders from available cash as provided by our partnership agreement if the PIK notes have been repaid. The PIK notes are due six months after the earlier of the refinancing or maturity of our bank credit facility. In order to repay the PIK notes prior to their scheduled maturity, we will need to amend or refinance our bank credit facility. Based on the amended provisions in our amended bank credit facility and senior secured note agreement, our current anticipated cash flows for 2009 and current economic conditions, we do not currently expect to be able to pay distributions to our unitholders in 2009 other than the distribution paid in February 2009 related to fourth quarter 2008 operating results. Even if we do not pay a distribution to unitholders, our unitholders may be liable for taxes on their share of our taxable income. See “— Unitholders may be required to pay taxes on income from us even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us.” In addition, even if our credit documents do not prohibit us from making distributions, we still may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to pay distributions to unitholders. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, we must pay our general partner’s fees and expenses and set aside any cash reserve amounts before making a distribution to our unitholders. The amount of cash we can distribute on our common units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the amount of natural gas transported in our gathering and transmission pipelines; • the level of our processing and treating operations; • the fees we charge and the margins we realize for our services; • the price of natural gas; • the relationship between natural gas and NGL prices; • our level of operating costs; and • restrictions on distributions contained in our bank credit facility. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • the level of capital expenditures we make; • the cost of acquisitions, if any; • our debt service requirements; • fluctuations in our working capital needs; • our ability to make working capital borrowings under our bank credit facility to pay distributions; • prevailing economic conditions; and • the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner in its sole discretion for the proper conduct of our business. Because of these factors, even if our credit documents do not prohibit us from making distributions, we still may not be able, or may not have sufficient available cash to pay distributions to unitholders each quarter. Furthermore, you should also be aware that the amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves and working capital borrowings, and is not solely a function of profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income. 22 Table of Contents Our profitability is dependent upon prices and market demand for natural gas and NGLs, which are beyond our control and have been volatile. We are subject to significant risks due to fluctuations in commodity prices. Our exposure to these risks is primarily in the gas processing component of our business. A large percentage of our processing fees are realized under percent of liquids (POL) contracts that are directly impacted by the market price of NGLs. We also realize processing gross margins under fractionation margin (margin) contracts. These settlements are impacted by the relationship between NGL prices and the underlying natural gas prices, which is also referred to as the fractionation spread. A significant volume of inlet gas at our south Louisiana and north Texas processing plants is settled under POL agreements. The POL fees are denominated in the form of a share of the liquids extracted and we are not responsible for the fuel or shrink associated with processing. Therefore, fee revenue under a POL agreement is directly impacted by NGL prices, and the decline of these prices in 2008 contributed to a significant decline in our gross margin from processing. We have a number of margin contracts on our Plaquemine and Gibson processing plants that expose us to the fractionation spread. Under these margin contracts our gross margin is based upon the difference in the value of NGLs extracted from the gas less the value of the product in its gaseous state and the cost of fuel to extract during processing. During the last half of 2008, the fractionation spread narrowed significantly as the value of NGLs decreased more than the value of the gas and fuel associated with the processed gas. Thus the gross margin realized under these margin contracts was negatively impacted due to the commodity price environment. The significant decline in crude oil prices and a related decline in NGL prices during the last half of 2008 had a significant negative impact on our margins, and may negatively impact our gross margin further if such declines continue. In the past, the prices of natural gas and NGLs have been extremely volatile and we expect this volatility to continue. For example, in 2007, the NYMEX settlement price for natural gas for the prompt month contract ranged from a high of $7.59 per MMBtu to a low of $5.43 per MMBtu. In 2008, the same index ranged from $6.46 per MMBtu to $13.10 per MMBtu. A composite of the OPIS Mt. Belvieu monthly average liquids price based upon our average liquids composition in 2007 ranged from a high of approximately $1.58 per gallon to a low of approximately $0.92 per gallon. In 2008, the same composite ranged from approximately $2.01 per gallon to approximately $0.56 per gallon. We may not be successful in balancing our purchases and sales. In addition, a producer could fail to deliver contracted volumes or deliver in excess of contracted volumes, or a consumer could purchase more or less than contracted volumes. Any of these actions could cause our purchases and sales not to be balanced. If our purchases and sales are not balanced, we will face increased exposure to commodity price risks and could have increased volatility in our operating income. The markets and prices for residue gas and NGLs depend upon factors beyond our control. These factors include demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs, which fluctuates with changes in market and economic conditions and other factors, including: • the impact of weather on the demand for oil and natural gas; • the level of domestic oil and natural gas production; • the level of domestic industrial and manufacturing activity; • the availability of imported oil, natural gas and NGLs; • international demand for oil and NGLs; • actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations; • the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems; • the availability of downstream NGL fractionation facilities; 23 Table of Contents • the availability and marketing of competitive fuels; • the impact of energy conservation efforts; and • the extent of governmental regulation and taxation. Changes in commodity prices may also indirectly impact our profitability by influencing drilling activity and well operations, and thus the volume of gas we gather and process. This volatility may cause our gross margin and cash flows to vary widely from period to period. Our hedging strategies may not be sufficient to offset price volatility risk and, in any event, do not cover all of our throughput volumes. Moreover, hedges are subject to inherent risks, which we describe in “— Our use of derivative financial instruments does not eliminate our exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices and interest rates and has in the past and could in the future result in financial losses or reduce our income.” For a discussion of our risk management activities, please read Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Due to our lack of asset diversification, adverse developments in our gathering, transmission, treating, processing and producer services businesses would materially impact our financial condition. We rely exclusively on the revenues generated from our gathering, transmission, treating, processing and producer services businesses, and as a result our financial condition depends upon prices of, and continued demand for, natural gas and NGLs. Due to our lack of asset diversification, an adverse development in one of these businesses would have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition and results of operations than if we maintained more diverse assets. Many of our customers’ drilling activity levels and spending for transportation on our pipeline system or gathering and processing at our facilities may be impacted by the current deterioration in the credit markets. Many of our customers finance their drilling activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. Recently, there has been a significant decline in the credit markets and the availability of credit. Additionally, many of our customers’ equity values have substantially declined. Adverse price changes, coupled with the overall downturn in the economy and the constrained capital markets, put downward pressure on drilling budgets for gas producers which could result in lower volumes being transported on our pipeline and gathering systems and processing through our processing plants. We have seen a decline in drilling activity by gas producers in our areas of operation during the fourth quarter of 2008. In addition, industry drilling rig count surveys published in early 2009 show substantial declines in rigs in operation as compared to 2008. Several of our customers, including one of our largest customers in the Barnett Shale, have recently announced drilling plans for 2009 that are substantially below their drilling levels during 2008. A significant reduction in drilling activity could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers and counterparties, and a general increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by our customers could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks of nonpayment and nonperformance by our customers are a major concern in our business. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers and other counterparties, such as our lenders and hedging counterparties. Any increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by our customers could adversely affect our results of operations and reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Many of our customers finance their activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. Recently, there has been a significant decline in the credit markets and the availability of credit. Additionally, many of our customers’ equity values have substantially declined. The combination of reduction of cash flow resulting from declines in commodity prices, a reduction in borrowing bases under reserve based credit facilities and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may result in a significant reduction in our customers’ liquidity and ability to make payment or perform on their obligations to us. Furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks, which increases the risk that they may default on their obligations to us. 24 Table of Contents Our use of derivative financial instruments does not eliminate our exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices and interest rates and has in the past and could in the future result in financial losses or reduce our income. Our operations expose us to fluctuations in commodity prices, and our bank credit facility exposes us to fluctuations in interest rates. We use over-the-counter price and basis swaps with other natural gas merchants and financial institutions and interest rate swaps with financial institutions. Use of these instruments is intended to reduce our exposure to short-term volatility in commodity prices and interest rates. We have hedged only portions of our variable-rate debt and expected natural gas supply, NGL production and natural gas requirements. We continue to have direct interest rate and commodity price risk with respect to the unhedged portions. In addition, to the extent we hedge our commodity price and interest rate risks using swap instruments, we will forego the benefits of favorable changes in commodity prices or interest rates. Even though monitored by management, our hedging activities may fail to protect us and could reduce our earnings and cash flow. Our hedging activity may be ineffective or adversely affect cash flow and earnings because, among other factors: • hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of volatile prices; • our counterparty in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay or otherwise fail to perform; and • available hedges may not correspond directly with the risks against which we seek protection. For example: • the duration of a hedge may not match the duration of the risk against which we seek protection; • variations in the index we use to price a commodity hedge may not adequately correlate with variations in the index we use to sell the physical commodity (known as basis risk); and • we may not produce or process sufficient volumes to cover swap arrangements we enter into for a given period. If our actual volumes are lower than the volumes we estimated when entering into a swap for the period, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative obligation without the benefit of cash flow from our sale or purchase of the underlying physical commodity, which could adversely affect our liquidity. Our financial statements may reflect gains or losses arising from exposure to commodity prices or interest rates for which we are unable to enter into fully economically effective hedges. In addition, the standards for cash flow hedge accounting are rigorous. Even when we engage in hedging transactions that are effective economically, these transactions may not be considered effective cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. Our earnings could be subject to increased volatility to the extent our derivatives do not continue to qualify as cash flow hedges, and, if we assume derivatives as part of an acquisition, to the extent we cannot obtain or choose not to seek cash flow hedge accounting for the derivatives we assume. Please read Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” for a summary of our hedging activities. We must continually compete for natural gas supplies, and any decrease in our supplies of natural gas could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to maintain or increase the throughput on our systems by accessing new natural gas supplies to offset the natural decline in reserves, our business and financial results could be materially, adversely affected. In addition, our future growth will depend, in part, upon whether we can contract for additional supplies at a greater rate than the rate of natural decline in our currently connected supplies. In order to maintain or increase throughput levels in our natural gas gathering systems and asset utilization rates at our treating and processing plants, we must continually contract for new natural gas supplies. We may not be able to obtain additional contracts for natural gas supplies. The primary factors affecting our ability to connect new wells to our gathering facilities include our success in contracting for existing natural gas supplies that are not committed to other systems and the level of drilling activity near our gathering systems. Fluctuations in energy prices can greatly affect production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil and natural 25 Table of Contents gas reserves. For example, as oil and natural gas prices have recently decreased, there has been a corresponding decrease in drilling activity. Tax policy changes could also have a negative impact on drilling activity, reducing supplies of natural gas available to our systems. We have no control over producers and depend on them to maintain sufficient levels of drilling activity. A material decrease in natural gas production or in the level of drilling activity in our principal geographic areas for a prolonged period, as a result of depressed commodity prices or otherwise, likely would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. We are vulnerable to operational, regulatory and other risks associated with our assets including, with respect to south Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico assets, the effects of adverse weather conditions such as hurricanes. Our operations and revenues will be significantly impacted by conditions in south Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico because we have a significant portion of our assets located in south Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico. In the third and fourth quarters of 2008, our business was negatively impacted by hurricanes Gustav and Ike, which came ashore in the Gulf Coast in September. Although the majority of our assets in Texas and Louisiana sustained minimal physical damage from these hurricanes and promptly resumed operations, several offshore production platforms and pipelines owned by third parties that transport gas production to our Pelican, Eunice, Sabine Pass and Blue Water processing plants in south Louisiana were damaged by the storms. Some of the repairs to these offshore facilities were completed during the fourth quarter of 2008, but we do not anticipate that gas production to our south Louisiana plants will recover to pre-hurricane levels until mid-2009, when all repairs are expected to be complete. Additionally, one of our south Louisiana processing plants, the Sabine Pass processing plant, which is located on the shoreline of the Louisiana Gulf Coast, sustained some physical damage. The Sabine Pass processing plant was repaired during the fourth quarter of 2008 and the plant was returned to service in early January 2009. Our operations in north Texas were also impacted by these hurricanes because operations at Mt. Belvieu, Texas, a central distribution point for NGL sales where several fractionators are located which fractionate NGLs from the entire United States, were interrupted as a result of these storms. These storms resulted in an adverse impact to our gross margin of approximately $22.9 million in the last half of 2008. Our concentration of activity in Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico makes us more vulnerable than many of our competitors to the risks associated with these areas, including: • adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms; • delays or decreases in production, the availability of equipment, facilities or services; and • changes in the regulatory environment. Because a significant portion of our operations could experience the same condition at the same time, these conditions could have a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other midstream companies who have operations in more diversified geographic areas. In addition, our operations in south Louisiana are dependent upon continued conventional and deep shelf drilling in the Gulf of Mexico. The deep shelf in the Gulf of Mexico is an area that has had limited historical drilling activity. This is due, in part, to its geological complexity and depth. Deep shelf development is more expensive and inherently more risky than conventional shelf drilling. A decline in the level of deep shelf drilling in the Gulf of Mexico could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A substantial portion of our assets is connected to natural gas reserves that will decline over time, and the cash flows associated with those assets will decline accordingly. A substantial portion of our assets, including our gathering systems and our treating plants, is dedicated to certain natural gas reserves and wells for which the production will naturally decline over time. Accordingly, our cash flows associated with these assets will also decline. If we are unable to access new supplies of natural gas either by connecting additional reserves to our existing assets or by constructing or acquiring new assets that have access to additional natural gas reserves, our cash flows may decline. 26 Table of Contents Growing our business by constructing new pipelines and processing and treating facilities subjects us to construction risks, risks that natural gas supplies will not be available upon completion of the facilities and risks of construction delay and additional costs due to obtaining rights-of-way and complying with local ordinances. One of the ways we intend to grow our business is through the construction of additions to our existing gathering systems and construction of new pipelines and gathering, processing and treating facilities. The construction of pipelines and gathering, processing and treating facilities requires the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, which may exceed our expectations. Generally, we may have only limited natural gas supplies committed to these facilities prior to their construction. Moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which anticipated production growth does not materialize. We may also rely on estimates of proved reserves in our decision to construct new pipelines and facilities, which may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough natural gas to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we face the risks of construction delay and additional costs due to obtaining rights-of-way and local permits and complying with city ordinances, particularly as we expand our operations into more urban, populated areas such as the Barnett Shale. Acquisitions typically increase our debt and subject us to other substantial risks, which could adversely affect our results of operations. From time to time, we may evaluate and seek to acquire assets or businesses that we believe complement our existing business and related assets. We may acquire assets or businesses that we plan to use in a manner materially different from their prior owner’s use. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including: • the inability to integrate the operations of recently acquired businesses or assets; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • the loss of customers or key employees from the acquired businesses; • a significant increase in our indebtedness; and • potential environmental or regulatory liabilities and title problems. Management’s assessment of these risks is necessarily inexact and may not reveal or resolve all existing or potential problems associated with an acquisition. Realization of any of these risks could adversely affect our operations and cash flows. If we consummate any future acquisition, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and you will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources. Additionally, our ability to grow our asset base in the near future through acquisitions will be limited due to our lack of access to capital markets and due to restrictions under our borrowing agreements. We expect to encounter significant competition in any new geographic areas into which we seek to expand and our ability to enter such markets may be limited. If we expand our operations into new geographic areas, we expect to encounter significant competition for natural gas supplies and markets. Competitors in these new markets will include companies larger than us, which have both lower capital costs and greater geographic coverage, as well as smaller companies, which have lower total cost structures. As a result, we may not be able to successfully develop acquired assets and markets located in new geographic areas and our results of operations could be adversely affected. 27 Table of Contents We may not be able to retain existing customers or acquire new customers, which would reduce our revenues and limit our future profitability. The renewal or replacement of existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including competition from other pipelines, and the price of, and demand for, natural gas in the markets we serve. For the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 46.0% of our sales of gas which were transported using our physical facilities were to industrial end-users and utilities. As a consequence of the increase in competition in the industry and volatility of natural gas prices, end-users and utilities are reluctant to enter into long-term purchase contracts. Many end-users purchase natural gas from more than one natural gas company and have the ability to change providers at any time. Some of these end-users also have the ability to switch between gas and alternate fuels in response to relative price fluctuations in the market. Because there are numerous companies of greatly varying size and financial capacity that compete with us in the marketing of natural gas, we often compete in the end-user and utilities markets primarily on the basis of price. The inability of our management to renew or replace our current contracts as they expire and to respond appropriately to changing market conditions could have a negative effect on our profitability. We depend on certain key customers, and the loss of any of our key customers could adversely affect our financial results. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from contracts with key customers. To the extent that these and other customers may reduce volumes of natural gas purchased under existing contracts, we would be adversely affected unless we were able to make comparably profitable arrangements with other customers. Several of our customers, including one of our largest customers in the Barnett Shale, have recently announced drilling plans for 2009 that are substantially below their drilling levels during 2008. Agreements with key customers provide for minimum volumes of natural gas that each customer must purchase until the expiration of the term of the applicable agreement, subject to certain force majeure provisions. Customers may default on their obligations to purchase the minimum volumes required under the applicable agreements. Our business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. Our operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the gathering, compressing, treating and processing of natural gas and storage of residue gas, including: • damage to pipelines, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, floods, fires and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism; • inadvertent damage from construction and farm equipment; • leaks of natural gas, NGLs and other hydrocarbons; and • fires and explosions. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage and may result in curtailment or suspension of our related operations. Our operations are concentrated in Texas, Louisiana and the Mississippi Gulf Coast, and a natural disaster or other hazard affecting this region could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are not fully insured against all risks incident to our business. In accordance with typical industry practice, we do not have any property insurance on any of our underground pipeline systems that would cover damage to the pipelines. We are not insured against all environmental accidents that might occur, other than those considered to be sudden and accidental. Our business interruption insurance covers only our Gregory processing plant. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, it could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. 28 Table of Contents The threat of terrorist attacks has resulted in increased costs, and future war or risk of war may adversely impact our results of operations and our ability to raise capital. Terrorist attacks or the threat of terrorist attacks cause instability in the global financial markets and other industries, including the energy industry. Uncertainty surrounding retaliatory military strikes or a sustained military campaign may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities, including pipelines, production facilities, and transmission and distribution facilities, could be direct targets, or indirect casualties, of an act of terror. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism, the war in Iraq or future developments could also affect our ability to raise capital. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to the threat of terrorist attacks have made certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. Our insurance policies now generally exclude acts of terrorism. Such insurance is not available at what we believe to be acceptable pricing levels. A lower level of economic activity could also result in a decline in energy consumption, which could adversely affect our revenues or restrict our future growth. Federal, state or local regulatory measures could adversely affect our business. While the FERC generally does not regulate our operations, it influences certain aspects of our business and the market for our products. The rates, terms and conditions of service under which we transport natural gas in our pipeline systems in interstate commerce are subject to FERC regulation under the Section 311 of the NGPA. Not only are our intrastate natural gas pipeline operations subject to limited rate regulation by FERC, but they are also subject to regulation by various agencies of the states in which they are located. Should FERC or any of these state agencies determine that our rates for Section 311 transportation service or intrastate transportation service should be lowered, our business could be adversely affected. Our natural gas gathering activities generally are exempt from FERC regulation under the NGA. However, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of substantial, on-going litigation, so the classification and regulation of our gathering facilities are subject to change based on future determinations by FERC and the courts. Natural gas gathering may receive greater regulatory scrutiny at both the state and federal levels since FERC has less extensively regulated the gathering activities of interstate pipeline transmission companies and a number of such companies have transferred gathering facilities to unregulated affiliates. Our gathering operations also may be or become subject to safety and operational regulations relating to the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of gathering facilities. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to these matters are considered or adopted from time to time. We cannot predict what effect, if any, such changes might have on our operations, but the industry could be required to incur additional capital expenditures and increased costs depending on future legislative and regulatory changes. Other state and local regulations also affect our business. We are subject to some ratable take and common purchaser statutes in the states where we operate. Ratable take statutes generally require gatherers to take, without undue discrimination, natural gas production that may be tendered to the gatherer for handling. Similarly, common purchaser statutes generally require gatherers to purchase without undue discrimination as to source of supply or producer. These statutes have the effect of restricting our right as an owner of gathering facilities to decide with whom we contract to purchase or transport natural gas. Federal law leaves any economic regulation of natural gas gathering to the states, and some of the states in which we operate have adopted complaint-based or other limited economic regulation of natural gas gathering activities. States in which we operate that have adopted some form of complaint-based regulation, like Oklahoma and Texas, generally allow natural gas producers and shippers to file complaints with state regulators in an effort to resolve grievances relating to natural gas gathering access and rate discrimination. The states in which we conduct operations administer federal pipeline safety standards under the Pipeline Safety Act of 1968. The “rural gathering exemption” under the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968 presently exempts substantial portions of our gathering facilities from jurisdiction under that statute, including those portions located outside of cities, towns, or any area designated as residential or commercial, such as a subdivision or shopping center. The “rural gathering exemption,” however, may be restricted in the future, and it does not apply to 29 Table of Contents our natural gas transmission pipelines. In response to recent pipeline accidents in other parts of the country, Congress and the Department of Transportation, or DOT, have passed or are considering heightened pipeline safety requirements. Compliance with pipeline integrity regulations issued by the United States Department of Transportation in December of 2003 or those issued by the TRRC could result in substantial expenditures for testing, repairs and replacement. TRRC regulations require periodic testing of all intrastate pipelines meeting certain size and location requirements. Our costs relating to compliance with the required testing under the TRRC regulations were approximately at $3.2 million, $1.2 million, and $1.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. We expect the costs for compliance with TRRC and DOT regulations to be approximately $3.6 million during 2009. If our pipelines fail to meet the safety standards mandated by the TRRC or the DOT regulations, then we may be required to repair or replace sections of such pipelines, the cost of which cannot be estimated at this time. As the Partnership’s operations continue to expand into and around urban, or more populated areas, such as the Barnett Shale, it may incur additional expenses to mitigate noise, odor and light that may be emitted in our operations, and expenses related to the appearance of its facilities. Municipal and other local or state regulations are imposing various obligations, including, among other things, regulating the location of the Partnership’s facilities, imposing limitations on the noise levels of its facilities and requiring certain other improvements that increase the cost of its facilities. The Partnership is also subject to claims by neighboring landowners for nuisance related to the construction and operation of its facilities, which could subject it to damages for declines in neighboring property values due to its construction and operation of facilities. Our business involves hazardous substances and may be adversely affected by environmental regulation. Many of the operations and activities of our gathering systems, plants and other facilities, including our south Louisiana processing assets, are subject to significant federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. The obligations imposed by these laws and regulations include obligations related to air emissions and discharge of pollutants from our facilities and the cleanup of hazardous substances and other wastes that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or locations to which we have sent wastes for treatment or disposal. Various governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with these regulations and the permits issued under them, and violators are subject to administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, injunctions or both. Strict, joint and several liability may be incurred under these laws and regulations for the remediation of contaminated areas. Private parties, including the owners of properties through which our gathering systems pass, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or releases of contaminants or for personal injury or property damage. There is inherent risk of the incurrence of significant environmental costs and liabilities in our business due to our handling of natural gas and other petroleum products, air emissions related to our operations, historical industry operations, waste disposal practices and the prior use of natural gas flow meters containing mercury. In addition, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. We may incur material environmental costs and liabilities. Furthermore, our insurance may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against us. Our business may be adversely affected by increased costs due to stricter pollution control requirements or liabilities resulting from non-compliance with required operating or other regulatory permits. New environmental regulations might adversely affect our products and activities, including processing, storage and transportation, as well as waste management and air emissions. Federal and state agencies could also impose additional safety requirements, any of which could affect our profitability. 30 Table of Contents Our success depends on key members of our management, the loss or replacement of whom could disrupt our business operations. We depend on the continued employment and performance of the officers of the general partner of our general partner and key operational personnel. The general partner of our general partner has entered into employment agreements with each of its executive officers. If any of these officers or other key personnel resign or become unable to continue in their present roles and are not adequately replaced, our business operations could be materially adversely affected. We do not maintain any “key man” life insurance for any officers. Risk Inherent In An Investment In the Partnership Crosstex Energy, Inc. controls our general partner and owned a 34% limited partner interest in us as of December 31, 2008. Our general partner has conflicts of interest and limited fiduciary responsibilities, which may permit our general partner to favor its own interests. As of December 31, 2008, Crosstex Energy, Inc. indirectly owned an aggregate limited partner interest of approximately 34% in us. In addition, CEI owns and controls our general partner. Due to its control of our general partner and the size of its limited partner interest in us, CEI effectively controls all limited partnership decisions, including any decisions related to the removal of our general partner. Conflicts of interest may arise in the future between CEI and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and our partnership, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts our general partner may favor its own interests and those of its affiliates over our interests. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: Conflicts Relating to Control • our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s liability and reduces its fiduciary duties, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that might, without these limitations, constitute breaches of fiduciary duty by our general partner; • in resolving conflicts of interest, our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties in addition to unitholders, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duties to the unitholders; • our general partner’s affiliates may engage in limited competition with us; • our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates; • our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us; • in some instances our general partner may cause us to borrow funds from affiliates of the general partner or from third parties in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on our subordinated units or to make incentive distributions or hasten the expiration of the subordination period; and • our partnership agreement gives our general partner broad discretion in establishing financial reserves for the proper conduct of our business. These reserves also will affect the amount of cash available for distribution. Conflicts Relating to Costs: • our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, issuance of additional limited partner interests and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for the payment of principal and interest on the notes; • our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; and 31 Table of Contents • our general partner is not restricted from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered on terms that are fair and reasonable to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf. Our unitholders have no right to elect our general partner or the directors of its general partner and have limited ability to remove our general partner. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business, and therefore limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders did not elect our general partner or the board of directors of its general partner and have no right to elect our general partner or the board of directors of its general partner on an annual or other continuing basis. Furthermore, if unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. The general partner generally may not be removed except upon the vote of the holders of 662/3% of the outstanding units voting together as a single class. Because affiliates of the general partner controlled approximately 34% of all the units as of December 31, 2008, the general partner could not be removed without the consent of the general partner and its affiliates. Cause is narrowly defined to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding the general partner liable for actual fraud, gross negligence, or willful or wanton misconduct in its capacity as our general partner. Cause does not include, in most cases, charges of poor management of the business, so the removal of the general partner because of the unitholders’ dissatisfaction with the general partner’s performance in managing our partnership will most likely result in the termination of the subordination period. In addition, unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of the general partner’s general partner, cannot be voted on any matter. In addition, the partnership agreement contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. As a result of these provisions, it will be more difficult for a third party to acquire our partnership without first negotiating such a purchase with our general partner and, as a result, our unitholders are less likely to receive a takeover premium. Cost reimbursements due our general partner may be substantial and will reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Prior to making any distributions on the units, we reimburse our general partner and its affiliates, including officers and directors of our general partner, for all expenses they incur on our behalf. The reimbursement of expenses could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Our general partner has sole discretion to determine the amount of these expenses. The control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party, and that third party could replace our current management team. The general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in the partnership agreement on the ability of the owner of the general partner from transferring its ownership interest in the general partner to a third party. The new owner of the general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of the general partner with its own choices and to control the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers. 32 Table of Contents Our general partner’s absolute discretion in determining the level of cash reserves may adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner to deduct from operating surplus cash reserves that in its reasonable discretion are necessary to fund our future operating expenditures. In addition, the partnership agreement permits our general partner to reduce available cash by establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, to comply with applicable law or agreements to which we are a party or to provide funds for future distributions to partners. These cash reserves will affect the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary duty by our general partner. Our partnership agreement limits the liability and reduces the fiduciary duties of our general partner to our unitholders. The partnership agreement also restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that would otherwise constitute breaches of our general partner’s fiduciary duties. If you choose to purchase a common unit, you will be treated as having consented to the various actions contemplated in the partnership agreement and conflicts of interest that might otherwise be considered a breach of fiduciary duties under applicable state law. We may issue additional common units without our unitholders’ approval, which would dilute our unitholders’ ownership interests. We may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type without the approval of our unitholders. Our partnership agreement does not give our unitholders the right to approve our issuance of equity securities ranking junior to the common units at any time. The issuance of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require our unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, our unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may therefore not receive any return on their investment. Our unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. Our unitholders may not have limited liability if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. Our unitholders could be held liable for our obligations to the same extent as a general partner if a court determined that the right or the exercise of the right by our unitholders to remove or replace our general partner, to approve amendments to our partnership agreement, or to take other action under our partnership agreement constituted participation in the “control” of our business, to the extent that a person who has transacted business with the partnership reasonably believes, based on our unitholders’ conduct, that our unitholders are a general 33 Table of Contents partner. Our general partner generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, such as its debts and environmental liabilities, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. In addition, Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act provides that a limited partner who receives a distribution and knew at the time of the distribution that the distribution was in violation of that section may be liable to the limited partnership for the amount of the distribution for a period of three years from the date of the distribution. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. Tax Risks to Our Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to entity level taxation by individual states. If the IRS treats us as a corporation or we become subject to entity level taxation for state tax purposes, it would substantially reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to you. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in us depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other matter affecting us. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay tax on our income at corporate rates of up to 35% (under the law as of the date of this report) and we would probably pay state income taxes as well. In addition, distributions to unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions and none of our income, gains, losses, or deductions would flow through to unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, the cash available for distribution to unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the unitholders and thus would likely result in a material reduction in the value of the common units. A change in current law or a change in our business could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. If any of these states were to impose a tax on us, the cash available for distribution to unitholders would be reduced. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state, or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts will be decreased to reflect the impact of that law on us. A successful IRS contest of the federal income tax positions we take may adversely impact the market for our common units and the costs of any contest will be borne by us and, therefore, indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner. We have not requested any ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from our counsel’s conclusions expressed in this prospectus or from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. A court may not agree with all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the prices at which our common units trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne by us and therefore indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner since such costs will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution by us. Unitholders may be required to pay taxes on income from us even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, they will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, 34 Table of Contents state, local, and foreign income taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they do not receive cash distributions from us. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions equal to their share of our taxable income or even the tax liability that results from that income. We do not currently expect to pay a distribution in the near future. See “— Restrictions in our bank credit facility may prevent us from paying distributions to our unitholders.” Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be different than expected. Unitholders who sell common units will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions in excess of the total net taxable income allocated for a common unit, which decreased the tax basis in that common unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if the common unit is sold at a price greater than the tax basis in that common unit, even if the price received is less than the original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, will likely be ordinary income to the unitholder. Should the IRS successfully contest some positions we take, unitholders could recognize more gain on the sale of units than would be the case under those positions, without the benefit of decreased income in prior years. In addition, unitholders who sell units may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs) and non-U.S. persons, raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes, at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file federal income tax returns and generally pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a foreign person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our common units. We will determine the tax benefits that are available to an owner of units without regard to the units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we will take depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of the Treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to the tax returns of unitholders. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests within a 12-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated our partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a 12-month period. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, members of Congress are considering substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect certain publicly traded partnerships. Any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or 35 Table of Contents may not be applied retroactively. Specifically, federal income tax legislation has been proposed that would eliminate partnership tax treatment for certain publicly traded partnerships and recharacterize certain types of income received from partnerships. Although the currently proposed legislation would not appear to affect our tax treatment as a partnership, we are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. As a result of investing in our common units, you will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing or withholding requirements in jurisdictions where you do not live. In addition to federal income taxes, you will likely be subject to other taxes such as state and local income taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property. You will likely be required to file state and local tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property and you may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We own property or conduct business in Texas, Oklahoma, Louisiana, New Mexico, Arkansas, Mississippi and Alabama. Oklahoma, Louisiana, New Mexico, Arkansas, Mississippi and Alabama impose an income tax, generally. Texas does not impose a state income tax on individuals, but does impose a franchise tax (to which we will be subject) on certain partnerships and other entities. We may do business or own property in other states or foreign countries in the future. It is our unitholders’ responsibility to file all federal, state, local, and foreign tax returns. Under the tax laws of some states where we will conduct business, we may be required to withhold a percentage from amounts to be distributed to a unitholder who is not a resident of that state. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the state, local, or foreign tax consequences of owning our common units. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations, and, accordingly, our counsel is unable to opine as to the validity of this method. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion regarding the treatment of a unitholder where common units are loaned to a short seller to cover a short sale of common units; therefore, unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We do not have any unresolved staff comments. 36 Table of Contents 