Item 1A: Risk Factors RISK FACTORS Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 This annual report on Form 10-K and the documents we incorporate by reference in this report contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Other than statements of historical fact, all statements that we include in this report and in the documents we incorporate by reference may be deemed to be forward-looking statements for purposes of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act. Such forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “could,” “estimates,” “expects,” “guidance,” “intends,” “may,” “outlook,” “plans,” “projects,” “seeks,” “will,” or similar words or expressions. Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully read and consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information we include or incorporate by reference in this report and the information in the other reports we file with the SEC. Such risk factors should be considered not only with regard to the information contained in this annual report, but also with regard to the information and statements in the other periodic or current reports we file with the SEC, as well as our press releases, presentations to securities analysts or investors, or other communications made by or with the approval of one of our executive officers. No assurance can be given that we will actually achieve the results contemplated or disclosed in our forward-looking statements. Such statements may turn out to be wrong due to the inherent uncertainties associated with future events. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s analyses, judgments, beliefs, or expectations only as of the date they are made. If any of the events described in the following risk factors actually occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, or prospects could be materially adversely affected. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business and operations. As such, you should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to address or update forward-looking statements in future filings or communications regarding our business or operating results, and do not undertake to address how any of these factors may have caused results to differ from discussions or information contained in previous filings or communications. Risks Related to Our Health Plans Business State and federal budget deficits may result in Medicaid, CHIP, or Medicare funding cuts which could reduce our revenues and profit margins. Nearly all of our premium revenues come from the joint federal and state funding of the Medicaid and CHIP programs. Due to high unemployment levels, Medicaid enrollment levels and Medicaid costs are continuing to increase at the same time that state budgets are suffering from unprecedented deficits. Because governmental health care programs account for such a large portion of state budgets, efforts to contain overall government spending and to achieve a balanced budget often result in significant political pressure being directed at the funding for these health care programs. Resolving the budget shortfalls is now particularly difficult since program reductions and one-time strategies to plug the gaps have already been used in most states. In fiscal year 2011, 47 states implemented at least one new policy to control Medicaid costs and 50 states planned to do so in fiscal year 2012. Most states reported program reductions in multiple areas. However, the “maintenance of eligibility” requirements under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act generally prohibit states from restricting Medicaid eligibility or tightening enrollment procedures. States are also moving forward with a range of delivery system changes and programmatic initiatives designed to improve care and control costs. Headed into state fiscal year 2013 (which in most instances starts on July 1, 2012), states do not expect revenue collections to recover to a level sufficient to avoid additional budget cuts. Already, 29 states have projected or have addressed shortfalls totaling $44 billion for fiscal year 2013. Among them are California and Texas, two of the most populous states in the country. Because Medicaid is one of the largest expenditures in every state budget, and one of the fastest-growing, it is a prime target for cost-containment efforts. All of the states in which we currently operate our health plans are currently facing significant budgetary pressures. The mandate of health reform adding millions of individuals to Medicaid and CHIP will put further pressures on state Medicaid programs. These budgetary pressures may result in unexpected Medicaid, CHIP, or Medicare rate cuts which could reduce our revenues and profit margins. 12 Table of Contents Moreover, some federal deficit reduction proposals would fundamentally change the structure and financing of the Medicaid program. Recently, various proposals have been advanced to reduce annual federal deficits and to slow the increase in the national debt. A number of these proposals include both tax increases and spending reductions in discretionary programs and mandatory programs, such as Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid. Some of the proposals relating to Medicaid would fundamentally change the structure and financing of the program, with major implications for providers and beneficiaries. One such proposal would be to convert Medicaid into a block grant, capping federal Medicaid payments to each state at a specified dollar amount, and limiting the growth in that dollar amount each year. Based on analysis of previous proposals to cap Medicaid, these dollar caps and growth limits would have to be set below the levels at which Medicaid is now expected to grow based on enrollment and health care inflation to save money. In the event the Medicaid program is fundamentally restructured, our business could be adversely affected. Most recently, on August 2, 2011, the President signed into law the Budget Control Act of 2011, which, among other things, creates the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to recommend proposals in spending reductions to Congress. The Joint Select Committee was tasked with proposing legislation to reduce the United States federal deficit by $1.5 trillion for fiscal years 2012-2021 by December 23, 2011. Reductions in Medicare and Medicaid spending were initially included as a part of these deficit reduction measures. On September 19, 2011, President Obama presented his Plan for Economic Growth and Deficit Reduction to the Joint Select Committee, which included $72 billion in Medicaid savings. The Joint Select Committee, however, failed to propose legislation by the December 23, 2011 deadline. Therefore, approximately $1.2 trillion in domestic and defense spending reductions will automatically begin on January 1, 2013 and will be split evenly between domestic and defense spending. Payments to Medicare providers are included in the automatic spending cuts; however, the Budget Control Act of 2011 provides that Medicare payments may be reduced by no more than 2% and certain other programs, including Medicaid, would be exempt from the automatic spending cuts. At this time, we are unable to determine how the automatic Congressional spending cuts will affect Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement in the future. We also cannot predict the initiatives that may be adopted in the future or their full impact. There likely will continue to be legislative and regulatory proposals at the federal and state levels directed at containing or lowering the cost of health care that, if adopted, could potentially have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. The recently enacted health care reform law and the implementation of that law could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. In March 2010, President Obama signed both the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, commonly referred to together as the “ACA”. This legislation enacts comprehensive changes to the U.S. health care system, components of which will be phased in at various stages over the next eight years. Among other things, by January 1, 2014, the Medicaid program will be expanded to provide eligibility to nearly all low-income people under age 65 with income below 133 percent of the federal poverty line. As a result, millions of low-income adults without children who currently cannot qualify for coverage, as well as many low-income parents and, in some instances, children now covered through CHIP, will be made eligible for Medicaid. In total, the Congressional Budget Office estimates that Medicaid and CHIP will cover an additional 16 million people by 2019. The legislation also imposes a franchise tax or premium excise tax of $8 billion starting in 2014, with increasing annual amounts thereafter. Such assessment may not be deductible for income tax purposes. As a result, several state officials have stated that the fiscal pressure that Medicaid puts on states is expected to increase if the federal health-care overhaul takes place in 2014. Although the federal government is required to pick up the costs for people newly eligible for the program, many who are now eligible but not enrolled are expected to be drawn in, and states must shoulder part of those costs. There are many parts of the legislation that will require further guidance in the form of regulations. Due to the breadth and complexity of the health reform legislation, the lack of implementing regulations and interpretive guidance, and the phased-in nature of the implementation, the overall impact of the health reform legislation on our business over the coming years is difficult to predict and not yet fully known. In addition, there have been a number of lawsuits filed that challenge all or part of the health care reform law. On January 31, 2011, a Florida District Court ruled that the entire health care reform law is unconstitutional. Other courts have ruled in favor of the law or have only struck down certain provisions of the law. These cases are under appeal and others are in process. The United States Supreme Court is scheduled to hear oral arguments on certain aspects of these cases in March 2012, including the constitutionality of the individual mandate and of the requirement imposed on states that they expand coverage under the Medicaid program. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of any of the litigation. Further, various Congressional leaders have indicated a desire to revisit or repeal the health care reform law. While the U.S House of Representatives voted to repeal the whole health care reform law, the U.S. Senate voted against such a repeal. There have separately been a number of bills introduced that would change certain provisions of the law. Because of these challenges, we cannot predict whether any or all of the legislation will be implemented as enacted, overturned, repealed, or modified. Any partial or complete repeal or amendment or implementation difficulties, or uncertainty regarding such events, could materially and adversely impact our ability to capitalize on the opportunities presented by the ACA or may cause us to incur additional costs of compliance. 13 Table of Contents If we fail to effectively accommodate the growth in Medicaid enrollment anticipated under the health reform legislation, our business may be materially adversely affected. In addition, if the new $8 billion insurance industry assessment is imposed as enacted, or if we are unable to obtain premium increases to offset the impact of the assessment or otherwise adjust our business model to address the assessment, our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our profitability depends on our ability to accurately predict and effectively manage our medical care costs. Our profitability depends to a significant degree on our ability to accurately predict and effectively manage our medical care costs. Historically, our medical care cost ratio, meaning our medical care costs as a percentage of our premium revenue, has fluctuated substantially, and has also varied across our state health plans. Because the premium payments we receive are generally fixed in advance and we operate with a narrow profit margin, relatively small changes in our medical care cost ratio can create significant changes in our overall financial results. For example, if our overall medical care ratio for 2011 of 83.9% had been one percentage point higher, or 84.9%, our earnings for 2011 would have been approximately $0.25 per diluted share rather than our actual 2011 earnings of $0.45 per diluted share, a 44% reduction in our earnings. Factors that may affect our medical care costs include the level of utilization of health care services, unexpected patterns in the annual flu season, increases in hospital costs, an increased incidence or acuity of high dollar claims related to catastrophic illnesses or medical conditions such as hemophilia for which we do not have adequate reinsurance coverage, increased maternity costs, payment rates that are not actuarially sound, changes in state eligibility certification methodologies, relatively low levels of hospital and specialty provider competition in certain geographic areas, increases in the cost of pharmaceutical products and services, changes in health care regulations and practices, epidemics, new medical technologies, and other various external factors. Many of these factors are beyond our control and could reduce our ability to accurately predict and effectively manage the costs of providing health care services. The inability to forecast and manage our medical care costs or to establish and maintain a satisfactory medical care cost ratio, either with respect to a particular state health plan or across the consolidated entity, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. A failure to accurately estimate incurred but not reported medical care costs may negatively impact our results of operations. Because of the time lag between when medical services are actually rendered by our providers and when we receive, process, and pay a claim for those medical services, we must continually estimate our medical claims liability at particular points in time, and establish claims reserves related to such estimates. Our estimated reserves for such “incurred but not paid,” or IBNP, medical care costs, are based on numerous assumptions. We estimate our medical claims liabilities using actuarial methods based on historical data adjusted for claims receipt and payment experience (and variations in that experience), changes in membership, provider billing practices, health care service utilization trends, cost trends, product mix, seasonality, prior authorization of medical services, benefit changes, known outbreaks of disease or increased incidence of illness such as influenza, provider contract changes, changes to Medicaid fee schedules, and the incidence of high dollar or catastrophic claims. Our ability to accurately estimate claims for our newer lines of business or populations, such as with respect to Medicare Advantage or aged, blind, and disabled Medicaid members, is impacted by the more limited experience we have had with those populations. Finally, with regard to the new Medicaid and CHIP members we expect to enroll in 2012 through organic growth due primarily to the recession, certain new members may be disproportionately costly due to high utilization in their first several months of Medicaid or CHIP membership as a result of their previously having been uninsured and therefore not seeking or deferring medical treatment. The IBNP estimation methods we use and the resulting reserves that we establish are reviewed and updated, and adjustments, if deemed necessary, are reflected in the current period. Given the numerous uncertainties inherent in such estimates, our actual claims liabilities for a particular quarter or other period could differ significantly from the amounts estimated and reserved for that quarter or period. Our actual claims liabilities have varied and will continue to vary from our estimates, particularly in times of significant changes in utilization, medical cost trends, and populations and markets served. If our actual liability for claims payments is higher than estimated, our earnings per share in any particular quarter or annual period could be negatively affected. Our estimates of IBNP may be inadequate in the future, which would negatively affect our results of operations for the relevant time period. Furthermore, if we are unable to accurately estimate IBNP, our ability to take timely corrective actions may be limited, further exacerbating the extent of the negative impact on our results. 14 Table of Contents An increased incidence of flu in 2012 in one or more of the states in which we operate a health plan could significantly increase utilization rates and medical costs. Our results during 2009 were significantly impacted by the widespread incidence of the H1N1 flu in the states in which we operate our health plans. An atypically high incidence of flu in 2012, or the outbreak and rapid spread of any other highly contagious and potentially virulent disease, could increase the utilization rates among our members, resulting in significantly increased outpatient, inpatient, emergency room, and pharmacy costs. If the responsive bids of our health plans for new or renewed Medicaid contracts are not successful, or if our government contracts are terminated or are not renewed, our premium revenues could be materially reduced and our operating results could be negatively impacted. Our government contracts may be subject to periodic competitive bidding. In such process, our health plans may face competition as other plans, many with greater financial resources and greater name recognition, attempt to enter our markets through the competitive bidding process. For instance, the state contract of our Ohio and New Mexico health plans will be subject to competitive bidding during 2012. In the event the responsive bids of our Ohio or New Mexico health plans or those of our other health plans are not successful, we will lose our Medicaid contract in the applicable state, and our premium revenues could be materially reduced as a result. Alternatively, even if our responsive bids are successful, the bids may be based upon assumptions regarding enrollment, utilization, medical costs, or other factors which could result in the Medicaid contract being less profitable than we had expected. In addition, all of our contracts may be terminated for cause if we breach a material provision of the contract or violate relevant laws or regulations. Our contracts with the states are also subject to cancellation by the state in the event of the unavailability of state or federal funding. In some jurisdictions, such cancellation may be immediate and in other jurisdictions a notice period is required. Further, most of our contracts are terminable without cause. Our government contracts generally run for periods of one year to three years, and may be successively extended by amendment for additional periods if the relevant state agency so elects. Our current contracts expire on various dates over the next several years. Although our health plans have generally been successful in obtaining the renewal and/or extension of their state contracts, there can be no guarantee that any of our state government contracts will be renewed or extended, as shown by the recent loss of our Missouri contract. If we are unable to renew, successfully re-bid, or compete for any of our government contracts, or if any of our contracts are terminated or renewed on less favorable terms, our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations could be adversely affected. There are numerous risks associated with the expansion of our Texas health plan’s service areas and with any other expansion into new markets. Effective March 1, 2012, our Texas health plan will be expanding into three new service delivery areas, representing the addition of approximately 148,000 additional members. There are numerous risks associated with a health plan’s initial expansion into a new service area or the provision of medical services to a new population, including pent-up demand for medical services, elevated medical care costs, unfamiliarity with managed care processes, and our lack of actuarial experience in setting appropriate reserve levels. In the event the medical care costs of our Texas health plan or of our other health plans are higher than anticipated, we are unable to lower the medical care ratio associated with these new populations, our reserve levels are inadequate, or our enrollment projections are overestimated, the negative results of our Texas health plan could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. In the event the expected reduction in the rates paid to our California health plan is not finally implemented, is not made effective retroactive to July 1, 2011, or is otherwise modified, our results of operations may be affected. California Assembly Bill 97, or AB 97, is legislation that was signed by Governor Jerry Brown on March 24, 2011. Among other things, AB 97 proposes to effect a 10% reduction in Medi-Cal provider rates. The California Department of Health Care Services has preliminarily indicated that the 10% rate reduction could be effective retroactive to July 1, 2011. The Company believes that this reduction in provider payments, if effected, will translate into a premium reduction of approximately 3.5% for the California health plan. The proposed rate reduction was submitted for approval to CMS, and on October 27, 2011, CMS indicated its general approval of the rate cut. However, the United States District Court for the Central District of California issued a series of injunctions barring the California Department of Health Care Services from implementing the rate reductions as to various classes of providers. The California Department of Health Care Services recently reported that CMS asked for a delay of the submission of the AB 97 managed care rates to allow CMS to research its authority to review and approve the AB 97 managed care rates in light of the current fee-for-service injunction. 15 Table of Contents If the proposed rate cut is not finally implemented, if it is not made retroactive to July 1, 2011, or if it is otherwise modified from its current form, the results of our California health plan could be affected — positively or negatively — depending on the action taken. In addition, recoveries from providers related to any final implemented rate cut could also affect the results of our California health plan. States may not adequately compensate us for the value of drug rebates that were previously earned by the Company but that are now collectible by the states. ACA includes certain provisions that change the way drug rebates are handled for drug claims filled by Medicaid managed care plans. Retroactive to March 23, 2010, state Medicaid programs are now required to collect federal rebates on all Medicaid-covered outpatient drugs dispensed or administered to Medicaid managed care enrollees (excluding certain drugs that are already discounted), and pharmaceutical manufacturers are required to pay specified rebates directly to the state Medicaid programs for those claims. This has impacted the level of rebates received by managed care plans from the manufacturers for Medicaid managed care enrollees. Many manufacturers are in the process of or have completed renegotiating their rebate contracts with Medicaid managed care plans and pharmacy benefits managers to offset these new rebates paid directly to state Medicaid programs. As a result, the drug rebate amounts paid to managed care plans like ours will likely decline significantly in the future. There are provisions in the ACA that require rates paid to Medicaid managed care to be actuarially sound in regard to drug rebates. Although we will be pursuing rate increases with state agencies to make us whole for the rebate amounts lost, there can be no assurances that the premium increases we may receive, if any, will be adequate to offset the amount of the lost rebates. If such premium increases prove to be inadequate, our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations could be adversely affected. We derive our premium revenues from a relatively small number of state health plans. We currently derive our premium revenues from ten state health plans, and as of June 30, 2012, when the contract of our Missouri health plan is scheduled to end, we will derive premium revenues from nine state health plans. If we were unable to continue to operate in any of those nine states, or if our current operations in any portion of the states we are in were significantly curtailed, our revenues could decrease materially. Our reliance on operations in a limited number of states could cause our revenue and profitability to change suddenly and unexpectedly, depending on an abrupt loss of membership, significant rate reductions, a loss of a material contract, legislative actions, changes in Medicaid eligibility methodologies, catastrophic claims, an epidemic or an unexpected increase in utilization, general economic conditions, and similar factors in those states. Our inability to continue to operate in any of the states in which we currently operate, or a significant change in the nature of our existing operations, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. There are performance risks and other risks associated with certain provisions in the state Medicaid contracts of several of our health plans. The state contracts of our New Mexico, Ohio, Texas, and Wisconsin health plans contain provisions pertaining to at-risk premiums that require us to meet certain quality performance measures to earn all of our contract revenues in those states. In the event we are unsuccessful in achieving the stated performance measure, the health plan will be unable to recognize the revenue associated with that measure. Any failure of our health plan to satisfy one of these performance measure provisions could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. In addition, the state contracts of our California, Florida, New Mexico, and Texas health plans contain provisions pertaining to medical cost floors, administrative cost and profit ceilings, and profit-sharing arrangements. These provisions are subject to interpretation and application by our health plans. In the event the applicable state government agency disagrees with our health plan’s interpretation or application of the sometimes complicated contract provisions at issue, the health plan could be required to adjust the amount of its obligations under these provisions and/or make a payment or payments to the state. Any interpretation or application of these provisions at variance with our health plan’s interpretation or inconsistent with our revenue recognition accounting treatment could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Failure to attain profitability in any new start-up operations could negatively affect our results of operations. Start-up costs associated with a new business can be substantial. For example, to obtain a certificate of authority to operate as a health maintenance organization in most jurisdictions, we must first establish a provider network, have infrastructure and required systems in place, and demonstrate our ability to obtain a state contract and process claims. Often, we are also required to contribute significant capital to fund mandated net worth requirements, performance bonds or escrows, or contingency guaranties. If we were unsuccessful in obtaining the certificate of authority, winning the bid to provide services, or attracting members in sufficient numbers to cover our costs, any new business of ours would fail. We also could be required by the state to continue to provide services for some period of time without sufficient revenue to cover our ongoing costs or to recover our significant start-up costs. Even if we are successful in establishing a profitable health plan in a new state, increasing membership, revenues, and medical costs will trigger increased mandated net worth requirements which could substantially exceed the net income generated by the health plan. Rapid growth in an existing state will also create increased net worth requirements. In such circumstances, we may not be able to fund on a timely basis or at all the increased net worth requirements with our available cash resources. The expenses associated with starting up a health plan in a new state or expanding a health plan in an existing state could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. Receipt of inadequate or significantly delayed premiums could negatively affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. Our premium revenues consist of fixed monthly payments per member, and supplemental payments for other services such as maternity deliveries. These premiums are fixed by contract, and we are obligated during the contract periods to provide health care services as established by the state governments. We use a large portion of our revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to our members. If premiums do not increase when expenses related to medical services rise, our medical margins will be compressed, and our earnings will be negatively affected. A state could increase hospital or other provider rates without making a commensurate increase in the rates paid to us, or could lower our rates without making a commensurate reduction in the rates paid to hospitals or other providers. In addition, if the actuarial assumptions made by a state in implementing a rate or benefit change are incorrect or are at variance with the particular utilization patterns of the members of one of our health plans, our medical margins could be reduced. Any of these rate adjustments in one or more of the states in which we operate could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. Furthermore, a state undergoing a budget crisis may significantly delay the premiums paid to one of our health plans. During 2010, due to a prolonged budget impasse, some of the monthly premium payments made by the State of California to our California health plan were several months late. In January 2012, State Controller John Chiang warned that the State of California could run out of cash by March 2012 if quick action was not taken. Mr. Chiang added that revenue is $2.6 billion lower than projected for California’s 2012 fiscal year while spending is higher by about the same amount. In a monthly report released by Mr. Chiang in February 2012 covering California’s cash balance, receipts and disbursements for the prior month, it was noted that monthly revenues for the month of January had come in $528 million below the latest projections contained in the Governor’s proposed 2012-13 budget and when compared against the 2011-12 Budget Act, January revenues were $1.2 billion below estimates. While the State Assembly of California passed a bill permitting short term borrowing from existing funds held by certain state departments in order to get the State of California through what is expected to be a seven-week cash shortfall, and though California also has access to an additional $865 million of internal borrowable funds due to recent legislation (SB 95) signed by the Governor, the State also warned that one of the consequences of such short term borrowing would be the delay of payments to providers of state services, including Medi-Cal. Any significant delay in the monthly payment of premiums to any of our health plans could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. Difficulties in executing our acquisition strategy could adversely affect our business. The acquisitions of other health plans and the assignment and assumption of Medicaid contract rights of other health plans have accounted for a significant amount of our growth over the last several years. Although we cannot predict with certainty our rate of growth as the result of acquisitions, we believe that additional acquisitions of all sizes will be important to our future growth strategy. Many of the other potential purchasers of these assets — particularly operators of large commercial health plans — have significantly greater financial resources than we do. Also, many of the sellers may insist on selling assets that we do not want, such as commercial lines of business, or may insist on transferring their liabilities to us as part of the sale of their companies or assets. Even if we identify suitable targets, we may be unable to complete acquisitions on terms favorable to us or obtain the necessary financing for these acquisitions. For these reasons, among others, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to complete favorable acquisitions, especially in light of the volatility in the capital markets over the past several years. Further, to the extent we complete an acquisition, we may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits from such acquisition because of operational factors or difficulty in integrating the acquisition with our existing business. This may include problems involving the integration of: • additional employees who are not familiar with our operations or our corporate culture, • new provider networks which may operate on terms different from our existing networks, • additional members who may decide to transfer to other health care providers or health plans, 17 Table of Contents • disparate information, claims processing, and record-keeping systems, • internal controls and accounting policies, including those which require the exercise of judgment and complex estimation processes, such as estimates of claims incurred but not reported, accounting for goodwill, intangible assets, stock-based compensation, and income tax matters, and • new regulatory schemes, relationships, practices, and compliance requirements. Also, we are generally required to obtain regulatory approval from one or more state agencies when making acquisitions of health plans. In the case of an acquisition of a business located in a state in which we do not already operate, we would be required to obtain the necessary licenses to operate in that state. In addition, although we may already operate in a state in which we acquire a new business, we would be required to obtain regulatory approval if, as a result of the acquisition, we will operate in an area of that state in which we did not operate previously. Furthermore, we may be required to renegotiate contracts with the network providers of the acquired business. We may be unable to obtain the necessary governmental approvals, comply with these regulatory requirements or renegotiate the necessary provider contracts in a timely manner, if at all. In addition, we may be unable to successfully identify, consummate and integrate future acquisitions, including integrating the acquired businesses on our information technology platform, or to implement our operations strategy in order to operate acquired businesses profitabley. Furthermore, we may incur significant transaction expenses in connection with a potential acquisition which may or may not be consummated. These expenses could impact our selling, general and administrative expense ratio. For all of the above reasons, we may not be able to consummate our proposed acquisitions as announced from time to time to sustain our pattern of growth or to realize benefits from completed acquisitions. We face periodic routine and non-routine reviews, audits, and investigations by government agencies, and these reviews and audits could have adverse findings, which could negatively impact our business. We are subject to various routine and non-routine governmental reviews, audits, and investigations. Violation of the laws, regulations, or contract provisions governing our operations, or changes in interpretations of those laws, could result in the imposition of civil or criminal penalties, the cancellation of our contracts to provide managed care services, the suspension or revocation of our licenses, the exclusion from participation in government sponsored health programs, or the revision and recoupment of past payments made based on audit findings. If we are unable to correct any noted deficiencies, or become subject to material fines or other sanctions, we might suffer a substantial reduction in profitability, and might also lose one or more of our government contracts and as a result lose significant numbers of members and amounts of revenue. In addition, government receivables are subject to government audit and negotiation, and government contracts are vulnerable to disagreements with the government. The final amounts we ultimately receive under government contracts may be different from the amounts we initially recognize in our financial statements. We rely on the accuracy of eligibility lists provided by state governments. Inaccuracies in those lists would negatively affect our results of operations. Premium payments to our health plan segment are based upon eligibility lists produced by state governments. From time to time, states require us to reimburse them for premiums paid to us based on an eligibility list that a state later discovers contains individuals who are not in fact eligible for a government sponsored program or are eligible for a different premium category or a different program. Alternatively, a state could fail to pay us for members for whom we are entitled to payment. Our results of operations would be adversely affected as a result of such reimbursement to the state if we had made related payments to providers and were unable to recoup such payments from the providers. We are subject to extensive fraud and abuse laws which may give rise to lawsuits and claims against us, the outcome of which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Because we receive payments from federal and state governmental agencies, we are subject to various laws commonly referred to as “fraud and abuse” laws, including the federal False Claims Act, which permit agencies and enforcement authorities to institute suit against us for violations and, in some cases, to seek treble damages, penalties, and assessments. Liability under such federal and state statutes and regulations may arise if we know, or it is found that we should have known, that information we provide to form the basis for a claim for government payment is false or fraudulent, and some courts have permitted False Claims Act suits to proceed if the 18 Table of Contents claimant was out of compliance with program requirements. Qui tam actions under federal and state law can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government. Qui tam actions have increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of health care companies to have to defend a false claim action, pay fines, or be excluded from the Medicare, Medicaid, or other state or federal health care programs as a result of an investigation arising out of such action. Many states, including states where we currently operate, have enacted parallel legislation. In the event we are subject to liability under a qui tam action, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Federal regulations require entities subject to HIPAA to update their transaction formats for electronic data exchange to the new HIPAA 5010 standards; however, some entities are currently in transition to the new standards which could adversely impact administrative expense and compliance. A federal mandate known as HIPAA 5010 requires health plans to use new standards for conducting certain operational and administrative transactions electronically beginning in January 2012. These administrative transactions include: claims, remittance, eligibility and claims status requests and responses. The HIPAA 5010 upgrade was prompted by government and industry’s shared goal of providing higher-quality, lower-cost health care and the need for a comprehensive electronic data exchange environment for the ICD-10 mandate to be implemented by October 2013. Upgrading to the new HIPAA 5010 standards should increase transaction uniformity, support pay for performance, and streamline reimbursement transactions. We, along with other health plans, faced significant pressure to make sure that we installed our software and tested it for compatibility with our business partners. Because HIPAA 5010 affects electronic transactions such as patient eligibility, claims filing, claims status, and remittance advice, we proceeded proactively to achieve full functionality of HIPAA 5010 transactions, and did so, before the January 1, 2012 deadline. However, in November 2011, CMS announced it would delay enforcement actions related to implementation of HIPAA 5010 until March 31, 2012. As the delayed implementation deadline approaches for full implementation of HIPAA 5010, we will continue to test our claims management systems to prevent any operational disruptions. Our business could be adversely impacted by adoption of the new ICD-10 standardized coding set for diagnoses. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, has released rules pursuant to HIPAA which mandate the use of standard formats in electronic health care transactions. HHS also has published rules requiring the use of standardized code sets and unique identifiers for providers. Originally, the federal government required that health care organizations, including health insurers, upgrade to updated and expanded standardized code sets used for documenting health conditions by October 2013. These new standardized code sets, known as ICD-10, will require substantial investments from health care organizations, including us. However, in February 2012, it was reported that CMS will postpone implementation of ICD-10 and will be issuing shortly a notice with a new timeline governing the pace of implementation. While use of the ICD-10 code sets will require significant administrative changes, we believe that the cost of compliance with these regulations has not had and is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial position, or results of operations. However, these changes may result in errors and otherwise negatively impact our service levels, and we may experience complications related to supporting customers that are not fully compliant with the revised requirements as of the applicable compliance date. Furthermore, if physicians fail to provide, appropriate codes for services provided as a result of the new coding set, we may not be reimbursed, or adequately reimbursed, for such services. If we are unable to deliver quality care, maintain good relations with the physicians, hospitals, and other providers with whom we contract, or if we are unable to enter into cost-effective contracts with such providers, our profitability could be adversely affected. We contract with physicians, hospitals, and other providers as a means to ensure access to health care services for our members, to manage health care costs and utilization, and to better monitor the quality of care being delivered. We compete with other health plans to contract with these providers. We believe providers select plans in which they participate based on criteria including reimbursement rates, timeliness and accuracy of claims payment, potential to deliver new patient volume and/or retain existing patients, effectiveness of resolution of calls and complaints, and other factors. We cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully attract and retain providers to maintain a competitive network in the geographic areas we serve. In addition, in any particular market, providers could refuse to contract with us, demand higher payments, or take other actions which could result in higher health care costs, disruption to provider access for current members, a decline in our growth rate, or difficulty in meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. The Medicaid program generally pays doctors and hospitals at levels well below those of Medicare and private insurance. Large numbers of doctors, therefore, do not accept Medicaid patients. In the face of fiscal pressures, some states may reduce rates paid to providers, which may further discourage participation in the Medicaid program. 19 Table of Contents In some markets, certain providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital organizations, and some specialists, may have significant market positions or even monopolies. If these providers refuse to contract with us or utilize their market position to negotiate favorable contracts which are disadvantageous to us, our profitability in those areas could be adversely affected. Some providers that render services to our members are not contracted with our plans. In those cases, there is no pre-established understanding between the provider and our plan about the amount of compensation that is due to the provider. In some states, the amount of compensation is defined by law or regulation, but in most instances it is either not defined or it is established by a standard that is not clearly translatable into dollar terms. In such instances, providers may believe they are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with our plan. The uncertainty of the amount to pay and the possibility of subsequent adjustment of the payment could adversely affect our business, financial position, cash flows, or results of operations. The insolvency of a delegated provider could obligate us to pay their referral claims, which could have an adverse effect on our business, cash flows, or results of operations. Circumstances may arise where providers to whom we have delegated risk, due to insolvency or other circumstances, are unable to pay claims they have incurred with third parties in connection with referral services provided to our members. The inability of delegated providers to pay referral claims presents us with both immediate financial risk and potential disruption to member care. Depending on states’ laws, we may be held liable for such unpaid referral claims even though the delegated provider has contractually assumed such risk. Additionally, competitive pressures may force us to pay such claims even when we have no legal obligation to do so or we have already paid claims to a delegated provider and payments cannot be recouped if the delegated provider becomes insolvent. To reduce the risk that delegated providers are unable to pay referral claims, we monitor the operational and financial performance of such providers. We also maintain contingency plans that include transferring members to other providers in response to potential network instability. In certain instances, we have required providers to place funds on deposit with us as protection against their potential insolvency. These funds are frequently in the form of segregated funds received from the provider and held by us or placed in a third-party financial institution. These funds may be used to pay claims that are the financial responsibility of the provider in the event the provider is unable to meet these obligations. However, there can be no assurances that these precautionary steps will fully protect us against the insolvency of a delegated provider. Liabilities incurred or losses suffered as a result of provider insolvency could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. Regulatory actions and negative publicity regarding Medicaid managed care and Medicare Advantage may lead to programmatic changes and intensified regulatory scrutiny and regulatory burdens. Several of our health care competitors have recently been involved in governmental investigations and regulatory actions which have resulted in significant volatility in the price of their stock. In addition, there has been negative publicity and proposed programmatic changes regarding Medicare Advantage private fee-for-service plans, a part of the Medicare Advantage program in which the Company does not participate. These actions and the resulting negative publicity could become associated with or imputed to the Company, regardless of the Company’s actual regulatory compliance or programmatic participation. Such an association, as well as any perception of a recurring pattern of abuse among the health plan participants in government programs and the diminished reputation of the managed care sector as a whole, could result in public distrust, political pressure for changes in the programs in which the Company does participate, intensified scrutiny by regulators, additional regulatory requirements and burdens, increased stock volatility due to speculative trading, and heightened barriers to new managed care markets and contracts, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. If a state fails to renew its federal waiver application for mandated Medicaid enrollment into managed care or such application is denied, our membership in that state will likely decrease. States may only mandate Medicaid enrollment into managed care under federal waivers or demonstrations. Waivers and programs under demonstrations are approved for two- to five-year periods and can be renewed on an ongoing basis if the state applies and the waiver request is approved or renewed by CMS. We have no control over this renewal process. If a state does not renew its mandated program or the federal government denies the state’s application for renewal, our business would suffer as a result of a likely decrease in membership. 20 Table of Contents If state regulators do not approve payments of dividends and distributions by our subsidiaries, it may negatively affect our business strategy. We are a corporate parent holding company and hold most of our assets at, and conduct most of our operations through, direct subsidiaries. As a holding company, our results of operations depend on the results of operations of our subsidiaries. Moreover, we are dependent on dividends or other intercompany transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service and other obligations. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments or advances to us will depend on their operating results and will be subject to applicable laws and restrictions contained in agreements governing the debt of such subsidiaries. In addition, our health plan subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations that limit the amount of dividends and distributions that they can pay to us without prior approval of, or notification to, state regulators. In California, our health plan may dividend, without notice to or approval of the California Department of Managed Health Care, amounts by which its tangible net equity exceeds 130% of the tangible net equity requirement. Our other health plans must give thirty days’ advance notice and the opportunity to disapprove “extraordinary” dividends to the respective state departments of insurance for amounts over the lesser of (a) ten percent of surplus or net worth at the prior year end or (b) the net income for the prior year. The discretion of the state regulators, if any, in approving or disapproving a dividend is not clearly defined. Health plans that declare non-extraordinary dividends must usually provide notice to the regulators ten or fifteen days in advance of the intended distribution date of the non-extraordinary dividend. The aggregate amounts our health plan subsidiaries could have paid us at December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 without approval of the regulatory authorities were approximately $17.6 million, $18.8 million, and $9.0 million, respectively. If the regulators were to deny or significantly restrict our subsidiaries’ requests to pay dividends to us, the funds available to our company as a whole would be limited, which could harm our ability to implement our business strategy. For example, we could be hindered in our ability to make debt service payments under our credit facility and/or our convertible senior notes. Unforeseen changes in pharmaceutical regulations or market conditions may impact our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations. A significant category of our health care costs relate to pharmaceutical products and services. Evolving regulations and state and federal mandates regarding coverage may impact the ability of our health plans to continue to receive existing price discounts on pharmaceutical products for our members. Other factors affecting our pharmaceutical costs include, but are not limited to, the price of pharmaceuticals, geographic variation in utilization of new and existing pharmaceuticals, and changes in discounts. The unpredictable nature of these factors may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. An unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential member information could have an adverse effect on our business. As part of our normal operations, we collect, process, and retain confidential member information. We are subject to various federal and state laws and rules regarding the use and disclosure of confidential member information, including HIPAA and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act provisions of the ARRA further expand the coverage of HIPAA by, among other things, extending the privacy and security provisions, mandating new regulations around electronic medical records, expanding enforcement mechanisms, allowing the state Attorneys General to bring enforcement actions, increasing penalties for violations, and requiring public disclosure of improper disclosures of health information of more than 500 individuals. Under ARRA, civil penalties for HIPAA violations by covered entities are increased up to an annual maximum of $1.5 million for uncorrected violations based on willful neglect. In addition, imposition of these penalties is now more likely because ARRA strengthens enforcement. For example, commencing February 2010, HHS was required to conduct periodic audits to confirm compliance. Investigations of violations that indicate willful neglect, for which penalties are now mandatory, are statutorily required. In addition, state attorneys general are authorized to bring civil actions seeking either injunctions or damages in response to violations of HIPAA privacy and security regulations that threaten the privacy of state residents. Initially monies collected will be transferred to a division of HHS for further enforcement, and within three years, a methodology will be adopted for distributing a percentage of those monies to affected individuals to fund enforcement and provide incentive for individuals to report violations. In addition, ARRA requires us to notify affected individuals, HHS, and in some cases the media when unsecured personal health information is subject to a security breach. ARRA also contains a number of provisions that provide incentives for states to initiate certain programs related to health care and health care technology, such as electronic health records. While provisions such as these do not apply to us directly, states wishing to apply for grants under ARRA, or otherwise participating in such programs, may impose new health care technology requirements on us through our contracts with state Medicaid agencies. We are unable to predict what such requirements may entail or what their effect on our business may be. 21 Table of Contents We will continue to assess our compliance obligations as regulations under ARRA are promulgated and more guidance becomes available from HHS and other federal agencies. The new privacy and security requirements, however, may require substantial operational and systems changes, employee education and resources and there is no guarantee that we be able to implement them adequately or prior to their effective date. Given HIPAA’s complexity and the anticipated new regulations, which may be subject to changing and perhaps conflicting interpretation, our ongoing ability to comply with all of the HIPAA requirements is uncertain, which may expose us to the criminal and increased civil penalties provided under ARRA and may require us to incur significant costs in order to seek to comply with its requirements. While we currently expend significant resources and implemented solutions, processes and procedures to protect against cyber attacks and security breaches and have no evidence to suggest that such attacks have resulted in a breach of our systems, we may need to expend additional significant resources in the future to continue to protect against potential security breaches or to address problems caused by such attacks or any breach of our systems. Because the techniques used to circumvent security systems can be highly sophisticated and change frequently, often are not recognized until launched against a target and may originate from less regulated and remote areas around the world, we may be unable to proactively address these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. Despite the security measures we have in place to ensure compliance with applicable laws and rules, our facilities and systems, and those of our third-party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure or use of confidential member information, whether by us or a third party, could subject us to civil and criminal penalties, divert management’s time and energy and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. Risks Related to the Operation of Our Molina Medicaid Solutions Business MMIS operational problems in Idaho or Maine could result in reduced or withheld payments, damage assessments, increased administrative costs, or even contract termination, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. From and after the MMIS operational or “go live” date of June 1, 2010 after which it began pilot operations, Molina Medicaid Solutions has experienced certain problems with the MMIS in Idaho. In the event Molina Medicaid Solutions is unsuccessful in correcting all of the identified problems, the Idaho Department of Administration may: (i) reduce or withhold its payments to Molina Medicaid Solutions, (ii) require Molina Medicaid Solutions to provide services at no additional cost to Idaho, (iii) require the payment of damages, or (iv) terminate its contract with Molina Medicaid Solutions. In addition, Molina Medicaid Solutions may incur much greater administrative costs than expected in correcting the MMIS problems, or in advancing interim payments to Idaho providers. For example, the consulting and outside service costs for Idaho following its go-live operational date have not declined from the pre-operational level as had been previously expected. Finally, Idaho DHW may not accept the MMIS developed and implemented by Molina Medicaid Solutions, or CMS may not certify such MMIS. All of such risks are also applicable to the MMIS in Maine which became operational and began pilot operations as of September 1, 2010. In addition, the state of Maine, in order to balance its budget, has requested that we renegotiate our contract with the state under terms which would reduce the amount of payments made under the life of the contract. The realization of any of the foregoing risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. We may be unable to retain or renew the state government contracts of the Molina Medicaid Solutions segment on terms consistent with our expectations or at all. Molina Medicaid Solutions currently has management contracts in only six states. If we are unable to continue to operate in any of those six states, or if our current operations in any of those six states were significantly curtailed, the revenues and cash flows of Molina Medicaid Solutions could decrease materially, and as a result our profitability would be negatively impacted. If the responsive bids to RFPs of Molina Medicaid Solutions are not successful, including its responsive bid in West Virginia during 2012, our revenues could be materially reduced and our operating results could be negatively impacted. The government contracts of Molina Medicaid Solutions may be subject to periodic competitive bidding. In such process, Molina Medicaid Solutions may face competition as other service providers, some with much greater financial resources and greater name recognition, attempt to enter our markets through the competitive bidding process. For instance, in 2011, the government 22 Table of Contents contract of Molina Medicaid Solutions in Louisiana was subject to competitive bidding, and we were unsuccessful in being awarded a new contract. During 2012, the state MMIS contract of West Virginia will be subject to competitive bidding. Molina Medicaid Solutions also anticipates bidding in other states which have issued RFPs for procurement of a new MMIS. In the event the responsive bid in West Virginia is not successful, we will lose our fiscal agent contract in that state, and our revenues could be materially reduced as a result. In addition, in the event our responsive bids in other states are not successful, we will be unable to grow in a manner consistent with our projections. Even if our responsive bids are successful, the bids may be based upon assumptions or other factors which could result in the contract being less profitable than we had expected or had been the case prior to competitive re-bidding. Because of the complexity and duration of the services and systems required to be delivered under the government contracts of Molina Medicaid Solutions, there are substantial risks associated with full performance under the contracts. The state contracts of Molina Medicaid Solutions typically require significant investment in the early stages that is expected to be recovered through billings over the life of the contracts. These contracts involve the construction of new computer systems and communications networks and the development and deployment of complex technologies. Substantial performance risk exists under each contract. Some or all elements of service delivery under these contracts are dependent upon successful completion of the design, development, construction, and implementation phases. Any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of these contracts, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could make these contracts less profitable or unprofitable, which could have an adverse effect on our overall business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. If we fail to comply with our state government contracts or government contracting regulations, our business may be adversely affected. Molina Medicaid Solutions’ contracts with state government customers may include unique and specialized performance requirements. In particular, contracts with state government customers are subject to various procurement regulations, contract provisions, and other requirements relating to their formation, administration, and performance. Any failure to comply with the specific provisions in our customer contracts or any violation of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of the contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, imposition of fines, and suspension from future government contracting. Further, any negative publicity related to our state government contracts or any proceedings surrounding them may damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts. The termination of a state government contract, our suspension from government work, or any negative impact on our ability to compete for new contracts, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. System security risks and systems integration issues that disrupt our internal operations or information technology services provided to customers could adversely affect our financial results or damage our reputation. Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. Computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including “bugs” and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and the efforts to address these problems could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential government customers. Molina Medicaid Solutions routinely processes, stores, and transmits large amounts of data for our clients, including sensitive and personally identifiable information. Breaches of our security measures could expose us, our customers, or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, resulting in litigation and potential liability for us and damage to our brand and reputation. Accordingly, we could lose existing or potential government customers for outsourcing services or other information technology solutions or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers’ system failures or any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products. In addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. Portions of our information technology infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays, or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. We may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time consuming, 23 Table of Contents disruptive, and resource-intensive. Such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other processes. Delayed sales, lower margins, or lost government customers resulting from these disruptions could adversely affect our financial results, reputation, and stock price. In the course of providing services to customers, Molina Medicaid Solutions may inadvertently infringe on the intellectual property rights of others and be exposed to claims for damages. The solutions we provide to our state government customers may inadvertently infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties resulting in claims for damages against us. The expense and time of defending against these claims may have a material and adverse impact on our profitability. Additionally, the publicity we may receive as a result of infringing intellectual property rights may damage our reputation and adversely impact our ability to develop new MMIS business. Inherent in the government contracting process are various risks which may materially and adversely affect our business and profitability. We are subject to the risks inherent in the government contracting process. These risks include government audits of billable contract costs and reimbursable expenses and compliance with government reporting requirements. In the event we are found to be out of compliance with government contracting requirements, our reputation may be adversely impacted and our relationship with the government agencies we work with may be damaged, resulting in a material and adverse effect on our profitability. Our performance on contracts, including those on which we have partnered with third parties, may be adversely affected if we or the third parties fail to deliver on commitments. In some instances, our contracts require that we partner with other parties including software and hardware vendors to provide the complex solutions required by our state government customers. Our ability to deliver the solutions and provide the services required by our customers is dependent on our and our partners’ ability to meet our customers’ delivery schedules. If we or our partners fail to deliver services or products on time, our ability to complete the contract may be adversely affected, which may have a material and adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. Risks Related to our General Business Operations Restrictions and covenants in our credit facility may limit our ability to make certain acquisitions or reduce our liquidity and capital resources. On September 9, 2011, we entered into a credit agreement for a $170 million revolving credit facility with various lenders and U.S. Bank National Association. The credit facility imposes numerous restrictions and covenants, including, but not limited to, prescribed consolidated leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios, net worth requirements, and acquisition and disposition limitations that restrict our financial and operating flexibility, including our ability to make certain acquisitions above specified values and declare dividends and other distributions without lender approval. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. As a result of the restrictions and covenants imposed under our credit facility, our growth strategy may be negatively impacted by our inability to react to market conditions, finance our operations, engage in strategic acquisitions or disposals, act with complete flexibility, or to use our credit facility in the manner intended. In addition, our credit facility matures in September 2016. If we are in default at a time when funds under the credit facility are required to finance an acquisition, or if a proposed acquisition does not satisfy the pro forma financial requirements under our credit facility, or if we are unable to renew or refinance our credit facility prior to its maturity, and if the default is not cured or waived, we may be unable to use the credit facility in the manner intended, and our operations, liquidity, and capital resources could be materially adversely affected. Ineffective management of our growth may negatively affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Depending on acquisitions and other opportunities, we expect to continue to grow our membership and to expand into other markets. In fiscal year 2007, we had total premium revenue of $2.5 billion. In fiscal year 2011, we had total premium revenue of $4.6 billion, an increase of 87% over a five-year span. Continued rapid growth could place a significant strain on our management and on other Company resources. Our ability to manage our growth may depend on our ability to strengthen our management team and attract, train, and retain skilled employees, and our ability to implement and improve operational, financial, and management information systems on a timely basis. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business, financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, due to the initial substantial costs related to acquisitions, rapid growth could adversely affect our short-term profitability and liquidity. 24 Table of Contents Any changes to the laws and regulations governing our business, or the interpretation and enforcement of those laws or regulations, could cause us to modify our operations and could negatively impact our operating results. Our business is extensively regulated by the federal government and the states in which we operate. The laws and regulations governing our operations are generally intended to benefit and protect health plan members and providers rather than managed care organizations. The government agencies administering these laws and regulations have broad latitude in interpreting and applying them. These laws and regulations, along with the terms of our government contracts, regulate how we do business, what services we offer, and how we interact with members and the public. For instance, some states mandate minimum medical expense levels as a percentage of premium revenues. These laws and regulations, and their interpretations, are subject to frequent change. The interpretation of certain contract provisions by our governmental regulators may also change. Changes in existing laws or regulations, or their interpretations, or the enactment of new laws or regulations, could reduce our profitability by imposing additional capital requirements, increasing our liability, increasing our administrative and other costs, increasing mandated benefits, forcing us to restructure our relationships with providers, or requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems. Changes in the interpretation of our contracts could also reduce our profitability if we have detrimentally relied on a prior interpretation. Our business depends on our information and medical management systems, and our inability to effectively integrate, manage, and keep secure our information and medical management systems, could disrupt our operations. Our business is dependent on effective and secure information systems that assist us in, among other things, processing provider claims, monitoring utilization and other cost factors, supporting our medical management techniques, and providing data to our regulators. Our providers also depend upon our information systems for membership verifications, claims status, and other information. If we experience a reduction in the performance, reliability, or availability of our information and medical management systems, our operations, ability to pay claims, and ability to produce timely and accurate reports could be adversely affected. In addition, if the licensor or vendor of any software which is integral to our operations were to become insolvent or otherwise fail to support the software sufficiently, our operations could be negatively affected. Our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading, and enhancement to meet our operational needs. Moreover, our acquisition activity requires transitions to or from, and the integration of, various information systems. If we experience difficulties with the transition to or from information systems or are unable to properly implement, maintain, upgrade or expand our system, we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions, loss of members, difficulty in attracting new members, regulatory problems, and increases in administrative expenses. Our business requires the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, or other events or developments could result in compromises or breaches of our security systems and member data stored in our information systems. Anyone who circumvents our security measures could misappropriate our confidential information or cause interruptions in services or operations. The internet is a public network, and data is sent over this network from many sources. In the past, computer viruses or software programs that disable or impair computers have been distributed and have rapidly spread over the internet. Computer viruses could be introduced into our systems, or those of our providers or regulators, which could disrupt our operations, or make our systems inaccessible to our members, providers, or regulators. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. Because of the confidential health information we store and transmit, security breaches could expose us to a risk of regulatory action, litigation, possible liability and loss. Our security measures may be inadequate to prevent security breaches, and our business operations would be negatively impacted by cancellation of contracts and loss of members if security breaches are not prevented. Because our corporate headquarters are located in Southern California, our business operations may be significantly disrupted as a result of a major earthquake. Our corporate headquarters is located in Long Beach, California. In addition, the claims of our health plans are also processed in Long Beach. Southern California is exposed to a statistically greater risk of a major earthquake than most other parts of the United States. If a major earthquake were to strike the Los Angeles area, our corporate functions and claims processing could be significantly impaired for a substantial period of time. Although we have established a disaster recovery and business resumption plan with back-up operating sites to be deployed in the case of such a major disruptive event, there can be no assurances that the disaster recovery plan will be successful or that the business operations of all our health plans, including those that are remote from any such event, would not be substantially impacted by a major Southern California earthquake. 25 Table of Contents We face claims related to litigation which could result in substantial monetary damages. We are subject to a variety of legal actions, including medical malpractice actions, provider disputes, employment related disputes, and breach of contract actions. In the event we incur liability materially in excess of the amount for which we have insurance coverage, our profitability would suffer. In addition, our providers involved in medical care decisions are exposed to the risk of medical malpractice claims. As an employer of physicians and ancillary medical personnel and as an operator of primary care clinics, our plans are subject to liability for negligent acts, omissions, or injuries occurring at one of its clinics or caused by one of their employees. We maintain medical malpractice insurance for our clinics in an amount which we believe to be reasonable in light of our experience to date. However, given the significant amount of some medical malpractice awards and settlements, this insurance may not be sufficient or available at a reasonable cost to protect us from damage awards or other liabilities. Even if any claims brought against us were unsuccessful or without merit, we would have to defend ourselves against such claims. The defense of any such actions may be time-consuming and costly, and may distract our management’s attention. As a result, we may incur significant expenses and may be unable to effectively operate our business. Furthermore, claimants often sue managed care organizations for improper denials of or delays in care, and in some instances improper authorizations of care. Claims of this nature could result in substantial damage awards against us and our providers that could exceed the limits of any applicable medical malpractice insurance coverage. Successful malpractice or tort claims asserted against us, our providers, or our employees could adversely affect our financial condition and profitability. We cannot predict the outcome of any lawsuit with certainty. While we currently have insurance coverage for some of the potential liabilities relating to litigation, other such liabilities may not be covered by insurance, the insurers could dispute coverage, or the amount of insurance could be insufficient to cover the damages awarded. In addition, insurance coverage for all or certain types of liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future or the deductible on any such insurance coverage could be set at a level which would result in us effectively self-insuring cases against us. Although we establish reserves for litigation as we believe appropriate, we cannot assure you that our recorded reserves will be adequate to cover such costs. Therefore, the litigation to which we are subject could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations, and could prompt us to change our operating procedures. We are subject to competition which negatively impacts our ability to increase penetration in the markets we serve. We operate in a highly competitive environment and in an industry that is subject to ongoing changes from business consolidations, new strategic alliances, and aggressive marketing practices by other managed care organizations. We compete for members principally on the basis of size, location, and quality of provider network, benefits supplied, quality of service, and reputation. A number of these competitive elements are partially dependent upon and can be positively affected by the financial resources available to a health plan. Many other organizations with which we compete, including large commercial plans, have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. For these reasons, we may be unable to grow our membership, or may lose members to other health plans. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and stock price. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our future testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 will continue to require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management time and effort. Moreover, if we are not able to continue to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NYSE, SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. 26 Table of Contents Changes in accounting may affect our results of operations. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and related implementation guidelines and interpretations can be highly complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation, or the adoption of new pronouncements could significantly affect our stated results of operations. The value of our investments is influenced by varying economic and market conditions, and a decrease in value could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition. Our investments consist solely of investment-grade debt securities. The unrestricted portion of this portfolio is designated as available-for-sale. Our non-current restricted investments are designated as held-to-maturity. Available-for-sale investments are carried at fair value, and the unrealized gains or losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss as a separate component of stockholders’ equity, unless the decline in value is deemed to be other-than-temporary and we do not have the intent and ability to hold such securities until their full cost can be recovered. For our available-for-sale investments and held-to-maturity investments, if a decline in value is deemed to be other-than-temporary and we do not have the intent and ability to hold such security until its full cost can be recovered, the security is deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired and it is written down to fair value and the loss is recorded as an expense. In accordance with applicable accounting standards, we review our investment securities to determine if declines in fair value below cost are other-than-temporary. This review is subjective and requires a high degree of judgment. We conduct this review on a quarterly basis, using both quantitative and qualitative factors, to determine whether a decline in value is other-than-temporary. Such factors considered include the length of time and the extent to which market value has been less than cost, the financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer, recommendations of investment advisors and forecasts of economic, market or industry trends. This review process also entails an evaluation of our ability and intent to hold individual securities until they mature or full cost can be recovered. The current economic environment and recent volatility of the securities markets increase the difficulty of assessing investment impairment and the same influences tend to increase the risk of potential impairment of these assets. Over time, the economic and market environment may provide additional insight regarding the fair value of certain securities, which could change our judgment regarding impairment. This could result in realized losses relating to other-than-temporary declines to be recorded as an expense. Given the current market conditions and the significant judgments involved, there is continuing risk that declines in fair value may occur and material other-than-temporary impairments may result in realized losses in future periods which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. We are subject to income taxes in the United States. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in states with different statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in U.S. tax laws and regulations, and changes in our interpretations of tax laws, including pending tax law changes. In addition, we are subject to the routine examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other local and state tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our estimated income tax liabilities. Adverse outcomes from tax examinations, or the accounting reversal of any tax benefits or revenue previously recognized by us, could have an adverse effect on our provision for income taxes, estimated income tax liabilities, or results of operations. We are dependent on our executive officers and other key employees. Our operations are highly dependent on the efforts of our executive officers. The loss of their leadership, knowledge, and experience could negatively impact our operations. Replacing many of our executive officers might be difficult or take an extended period of time because a limited number of individuals in the managed care industry have the breadth and depth of skills and experience necessary to operate and expand successfully a business such as ours. Our success is also dependent on our ability to hire and retain qualified management, technical, and medical personnel. It is critical that we recruit, manage, enable and retain talent to successfully execute our strategic objections which requires aligned policies, a positive work environment and a robust succession and talent development process. Further, particularly in light of the changing healthcare environment, we must focus on building employee capabilities to help ensure that we can meet upcoming challenges and opportunities. If we are unsuccessful in recruiting, retaining, managing and enabling such personnel and are unable to meet upcoming challenges and opportunities, our operations could be negatively impacted. 27 Table of Contents We are subject to risks associated with outsourcing services and functions to third parties. We contract with independent third party vendors and service providers who provide services to us and our subsidiaries or to whom we delegate selected functions. Our arrangements with third party vendors and service providers may make our operations vulnerable if those third parties fail to satisfy their obligations to us, including their obligations to maintain and protect the security and confidentiality of our information and data. In addition, we may have disagreements with third party vendors and service providers regarding relative responsibilities for any such failures under applicable business associate agreements or other applicable outsourcing agreements. Further, we may not be adequately indemnified against all possible losses through the terms and conditions of our contracts with third party vendors and service providers. Our outsourcing arrangements could be adversely impacted by changes in the vendors’ or service provider’s operations or financial condition or other matters outside of our control. If we fail to adequately monitor and regulate the performance of our third party vendors and service providers, we could be subject to additional risk. Violations of, or noncompliance with, laws and/or regulations governing our business or noncompliance with contract terms by third party vendors and service providers could increase our exposure to liability to our members, providers or other third parties, or sanctions and/or fines from the regulators that oversee our business. In turn, this could increase the costs associated with the operation of our business or have an adverse impact on our business and reputation. Moreover, if these vendor and service provider relationships were terminated for any reason, we may not be able to find alternative partners in a timely manner or on acceptable financial terms, and may incur significant costs in connection with any such vendor or service provider transition. As a result, we may not be able to meet the full demands of our customers and, in turn, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. In addition, we may not fully realize the anticipated economic and other benefits from our outsourcing projects or other relationships we enter into with third party vendors and service providers, as a result of regulatory restrictions on outsourcing, unanticipated delays in transitioning our operations to the third party, vendor or service provider noncompliance with contract terms or violations of laws and/or regulations, or otherwise. This could result in substantial costs or other operational or financial problems that could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. An impairment charge with respect to our recorded goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets could have a material impact on our financial results. We conduct formal impairment tests on material long-lived assets, such as goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, and intangible assets, net, at least annually; additionally, we continually evaluate whether events or changes in business conditions suggest potential impairment of such assets. Our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators are based on legal factors, market conditions, and operational performance. For example, our health plan subsidiaries have generally been successful in obtaining the renewal by amendment of their contracts in each state prior to the actual expiration of their contracts. However, there can be no assurance that these contracts will continue to be renewed. The non-renewal of such a contract would be an indicator of impairment. As of December 31, 2011, the balance of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets was $154.0 million. Goodwill and indefinite-lived assets are not amortized, but are subject to impairment tests on an annual basis or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist. As of December 31, 2011, the balance of intangible assets, net, was $101.8 million. Intangible assets are amortized generally on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. The determination of the value of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, and intangible assets, net, requires us to make estimates and assumptions about estimated asset lives, future business trends, and growth. Such evaluation is significantly impacted by estimates and assumptions of future revenues, costs and expenses, and other factors. If an event or events occur that would cause us to revise our estimates and assumptions used in analyzing the value of our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, and intangible assets, net, such revision could result in a non-cash impairment charge that could have a material impact on our financial results. We are subject to the risks of owning real property. We own an approximately 460,000 square foot office building housing our principal executive offices, which we purchased in a transaction that closed on December 7, 2011. Accordingly, we are subject to all of the risks generally associated with owning and leasing real estate, which includes, but is not limited to: the possibility of environmental contamination, the costs associated with fixing any environmental problems and the risk of damages resulting from such contamination; adverse changes in the value of the property due to interest rate changes, changes in the neighborhood in which the property is located or other factors; ongoing 28 Table of Contents maintenance expenses and costs of improvements; the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with changes in zoning, seismic, disability act, or other requirements; inability to renew or enter into leases for space not utilized by the Company on commercially acceptable terms or at all; and possible disputes with neighboring owners or other individuals and entities. Because we have guaranteed one of our subsidiary’s obligations under a loan agreement, if this subsidiary fails to meet its obligations under the loan agreement, we may be required to satisfy such obligations, and such an undertaking could have an adverse affect on our financial condition. On December 7, 2011, Molina Center LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into a Term Loan Agreement with various lenders and East West Bank, as Administrative Agent, to borrow the aggregate principal amount of $48.6 million to finance a portion of the $81 million purchase price for the acquisition of the office building housing our corporate headquarters. While all amounts due under the Term Loan Agreement and related loan documents are secured by a security interest in the office building in favor of and for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the other lenders under the Term Loan Agreement, the Company has additionally guaranteed Molina Center’s obligations of payment and performance under the Term Loan Agreement, certain promissory notes executed in connection therewith, and other loan documents. The maximum amount of the promissory notes for which the Company is liable under the Guaranty will in no event exceed $20 million, but there is no cap on the Company’s total liability under the Guaranty. Furthermore, Molina Center and the Company also entered into an Environmental Indemnity in favor of the Administrative Agent and the other lenders pursuant to which the Company, jointly and severally with Molina Center, has agreed to indemnify and hold harmless the Administrative Agent and each of the other lenders under the Term Loan Agreement from and against any loss, damage, cost, expense, claim, or liability directly or indirectly arising out of or attributable to the use, generation, storage, release, discharge or disposal, or presence of certain hazardous materials on or about the office building. Neither the Company’s nor Molina Center’s liability under the Environmental Indemnity is limited by a maximum dollar amount. If Molina Center is unable to comply with the various customary financial covenants of the Term Loan Agreement, if it defaults under the Term Loan Agreement or if there are major environmental liabilities attributed to hazardous materials, such events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Volatility of our stock price could adversely affect stockholders. Since our initial public offering in July 2003, the sales price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $10.75 (on a split-adjusted basis) to a high of $36.83. A number of factors will continue to influence the market price of our common stock, including: • state and federal budget pressures, • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates, if any, of public market analysts, • announcements relating to our business or the business of our competitors, • changes in government payment levels, • adverse publicity regarding health maintenance organizations and other managed care organizations, • government action regarding member eligibility, • changes in state mandatory programs, • conditions generally affecting the managed care industry or our provider networks, • the success of our operating or acquisition strategy, • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies in the health care industry, • the termination of our Medicaid or CHIP contracts with state or county agencies, or subcontracts with other Medicaid managed care organizations that contract with such state or county agencies, 29 Table of Contents • regulatory or legislative change, • general economic conditions, including unemployment rates, inflation, and interest rates, and • the factors set forth under “Risk Factors” in this report. Our stock may not trade at the same levels as the stock of other health care companies or the market in general. Also, if the trading market for our stock does not continue to develop, securities analysts may not maintain or initiate research coverage of our Company and our shares, and this could depress the market for our shares. Members of the Molina family own a majority of our capital stock, decreasing the influence of other stockholders on stockholder decisions. Members of the Molina family, either directly or as trustees or beneficiaries of Molina family trusts, in the aggregate own or are entitled to receive upon certain events approximately 40% of our capital stock. Our president and chief executive officer, as well as our chief financial officer, are members of the Molina family, and they are also on our board of directors. Because of the amount of their shareholdings, Molina family members, if they were to act as a group with the trustees of their family trusts, have the ability to significantly influence all matters submitted to stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors, amendments to our charter, and any merger, consolidation, or sale of our Company. A significant concentration of share ownership can also adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors often discount the value of stock in companies that have controlling stockholders. Furthermore, the concentration of share ownership in the Molina family could delay or prevent a merger or consolidation, takeover, or other business combination that could be favorable to our stockholders. Finally, the interests and objectives of the Molina family may be different from those of our company or our other stockholders, and they may vote their common stock in a manner that is contrary to the vote of our other stockholders. Future sales of our common stock or equity-linked securities in the public market could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings. We may issue equity securities in the future, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other equity securities, including sales of shares in connection with any future acquisitions, could be substantially dilutive to our stockholders. These sales may have a harmful effect on prevailing market prices for our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital in the financial markets at a time and price favorable to us. Moreover, to the extent that we issue restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, options, or warrants to purchase our common stock in the future and those stock appreciation rights, options, or warrants are exercised or as the restricted stock units vest, our stockholders may experience further dilution. Holders of our shares of common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase a pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation provides that we have authority to issue 80,000,000 shares of common stock and 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock. As of December 31, 2011, 45,815,392 shares of common stock and no shares of preferred or other capital stock were issued and outstanding. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire our Company, which could inhibit stockholders from realizing a premium on their stock price. We are subject to the Delaware anti-takeover laws regulating corporate takeovers. These provisions may prohibit stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. In addition, any change in control of our state health plans would require the approval of the applicable insurance regulator in each state in which we operate. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws also contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of our Company that stockholders may consider favorable or beneficial. These provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include: • a staggered board of directors, so that it would take three successive annual meetings to replace all directors, • prohibition of stockholder action by written consent, and • advance notice requirements for the submission by stockholders of nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting. 30 Table of Contents In addition, changes of control are often subject to state regulatory notification, and in some cases, prior approval. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends. While we have in the past and may again in the future use our available cash to repurchase our securities, we do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. 