D. Risk Factors You should consider each of the following factors as well as other information in and incorporated into this Annual Report in evaluating the Corporation’s business and its prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Corporation faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Corporation or that the Corporation currently considers immaterial may also impair the Corporation’s business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Corporation’s business and financial results could be harmed and the trading price of the Corporation’s common stock could decline. You should also refer to the other information set forth in and incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 20-F, including the Corporation’s financial statements and the related notes. Risks Related to the Corporation’s Business The Corporation has no experience in marketing products. If the Corporation cannot successfully market and cause consumer acceptance of the Corporation’s products, the Corporation will be unable to execute its business plan. The Corporation has no experience in marketing its products and has developed a strategy to out-license the marketing function to one or more partners, such as major diagnostic or pharmaceutical companies. On May 10, 2002, as amended, the Corporation announced an agreement with McNeil Consumer Healthcare, a division of McNeil PDI Inc., a Johnson & Johnson company (“McNeil”) to market and distribute the Corporation’s skin cholesterol tests, branded as PREVU* Skin Sterol Test, in Canada and in the insurance laboratory field in the United States and Mexico. On May 28, 2004, the Corporation announced an additional agreement with McNeil for the worldwide marketing rights to the skin cholesterol tests. There can be no assurance, however, that such efforts will be successful. If the Corporation relies on third parties to market its products, the commercial success of such products will be largely outside of its control. Moreover, there can be no assurance that providers, payers or patients will accept the Corporation’s products, even if they prove to be safe and effective and are allowed for marketing by the Canadian Health Products and Food Protection Branch (“HPB”), the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and other regulatory authorities. The ability of the Corporation to achieve significant market share for each of its products could be affected by reimbursement difficulties with government agencies and third-party insurers, which could hamper the speed with which the Corporation’s products are adopted by the medical community and by the public. Market penetration of the Corporation’s products will be influenced by factors including the cost-effectiveness and the overall economic benefits that they offer. 3 If the Corporation is unable to generate significant revenues and become profitable in the near future, its business will fail. To date, the Corporation has not generated significant ongoing revenues to offset its research and development costs and operating costs and accordingly has not made an operating profit. See “Key Information- Selected Financial Data,” “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” and “Financial Information.” The Corporation has historically benefited from the inclusion of Canadian federal and provincial refundable scientific investment tax credits (“ITCs”) in its annual operating results. To date, the Corporation has received $2,075,000 in ITC payments. ITCs are tax credits that the Corporation receives from the Canadian federal and provincial governments as a result of conducting applied scientific research in Canada. During the years that the Corporation was considered a private company for tax purposes, the ITCs that it received amounted to approximately 30% of the Corporation’s research expenditures. Upon the listing of the Corporation’s common shares on the Toronto Stock Exchange in August 2000, the Corporation became eligible to receive cash refunds of only its provincial tax credits to a maximum of $200,000 per year, which currently amount to 7% to 10% of the Corporation’s research expenditures. The remainder of the provincial credits, as well as the federal credits, count as a tax credit that can be carried forward and applied against future years’ taxable income. The ITC receivable of approximately $200,000 as of December 31, 2005, is reported as a separate line item on the Corporation’s financial statements. There can be no assurance that grants and ITCs will continue to be available to the Corporation or, if so, at what levels. Also, the Corporation may never achieve significant revenues or sufficient profitable operations to realize its ITC tax credits that have been carried forward. In 2005, the Corporation recorded $426,000 in sales of PREVU* to McNeil. However, there is no assurance that sales and license revenues from this agreement will be sufficient to generate a profit for the Corporation in the near future. If the Corporation cannot obtain additional financing required to support its business growth, the Corporation will be unable to fund its continuing operations in the future. Management believes that, based on historic cash expenditures and the current expectation of further revenues from partnering activities, product sales and royalties, the Corporation’s existing cash resources together with the investment tax credits receivable of $200,000 will be sufficient to meet its current operating and capital requirements through at least 2008. However, if general market conditions change or the Corporation’s specific research and development requirements change and the Corporation’s expenses increase, the Corporation might be required to seek additional capital in the near term. The Corporation’s future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including revenue from the commercial launch of its products, continued progress in diagnostic development programs, pre-clinical and clinical evaluation, time and expense associated with regulatory filings, prosecuting and enforcing its patent claims, and costs associated with obtaining regulatory approvals. If additional financing is required, the Corporation will consider out-licensing its products under collaborative research and development arrangements, and additional public or private financing (including the issuance of additional equity securities) to fund all or a part of particular programs. There can be no assurance that additional funding will be available or, if available, that it will be available on acceptable terms. If such funding is not available, the Corporation may be forced to reduce or eliminate expenditures relating to specific programs relating to the development, testing, production or marketing of its proposed products, or may have to obtain funds through arrangements with corporate partners that require the Corporation to relinquish rights to certain of its technologies or products. The Corporation may not be able to raise additional capital if its capital resources are exhausted. See “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects.” The Corporation will need to generate cash to pay interest and principal on the convertible debentures. Any conversion of the debentures, exercise of the warrants or issuance of common shares to pay interest, when permitted, would dilute the interests of the Corporation’s current shareholders. 4 On August 30, 2005, PreMD completed a private placement financing of convertible debentures, maturing on August 30, 2009, for gross proceeds of $9,828,000 (US$8,210,000) less issue fees and expenses of $862,000 (resulting in net proceeds of $8,966,000). The unsecured debentures bear interest at an annual rate of 7% payable quarterly in cash or common shares at the Corporation’s option. The number of common shares issuable in satisfaction of interest payments is dependent on the trading price of common shares at the time of the applicable interest date. The debentures are convertible into common shares at any time during the term, at the option of the holder, at $3.47 per share (subject to adjustment). If all the debentures were converted to common shares, it would result in the issuance of an additional 2,882,195 common shares. Purchasers of the convertible debentures also received warrants to purchase 1,288,970 common shares at any time before August 30, 2010 at an exercise price of $3.57 per common share (subject to adjustment). At any time after one year from the date of issuance of the warrants, the warrants may also be exercised by means of a cashless exercise by the holder. If the convertible debentures are converted, the warrants exercised or if common shares are issued to pay interest, the interests of the Corporation’s current shareholders will be diluted. The Corporation depends on its patents and proprietary technology. If the Corporation is unable to prevent infringement of its intellectual property or to defend a claim of infringement, its business will be harmed. The Corporation’s success will depend, in part, on its ability to acquire patents or licenses, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. The Corporation has filed patent applications in the U.S. and other jurisdictions. There can be no assurance that the Corporation’s outstanding patent applications will be allowed, that the Corporation will gain access to additional proprietary products that are patentable, that issued patents will provide the Corporation with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by any third parties, or that the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on the ability of the Corporation to do business. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop similar products, duplicate any of the Corporation’s products or design around the patented products developed by the Corporation. The Corporation may be required to obtain licenses under patents or other proprietary rights of third parties. No assurance can be given that any licenses required under any such patents or proprietary rights will be available on terms acceptable to the Corporation or that such licenses will be available at all. If the Corporation does not obtain such licenses, it could encounter delays in introducing one or more of its products to the market while it attempts to design around such patents, or could find that the development, manufacture or sale of products requiring such licenses could be foreclosed. In addition, the Corporation could incur substantial costs in defending itself in suits brought against it on such patents or in suits in which the Corporation attempts to enforce its own patents against other parties. Also, the Corporation could be liable for damages or an accounting of profits if it were unsuccessful in defending itself in a suit for infringement of a patent. In August 2004, PreMD learned that two of its U.S. patents had been listed as abandoned by the United States Patent and Trademark Office (“U.S. PTO”) for failure to pay maintenance fees. The failure to pay these maintenance fees occurred when the files were transferred between U.S. and Canadian patent agents. PreMD filed a petition for reinstatement of the patents. In June 2005, PreMD filed a request for consideration. On December 23, 2005, the U.S. PTO notified PreMD of its decision not to reinstate the two patents. In February 2006, PreMD filed a request for reconsideration with the U.S. PTO. There is no outcome to date. No assurance can be given that the request for reconsideration will be approved or that any legal action against the law firm will result in any compensation for the loss of the two patents. PreMD cannot be certain that others will not independently develop similar products, and if others do independently develop similar products, there is no assurance that PreMD can protect the intellectual property that was the subject of the two patents as well as the Corporation could have in light of the patents. The Corporation relies on third parties to manufacture some of its products and any delays, volume constraints or mistakes on the part of such manufacturers could result in cancelled orders and a loss of revenues for the Corporation. 5 The Corporation relies on third parties to manufacture and formulate some of its products for clinical trials and for commercial sale. Currently, the Corporation’s skin cholesterol products are manufactured by Diagnostic Chemicals Limited (DCL) and Southmedic Inc., while X-Rite, Inc. supplies the color measurement instrument used in connection with the tests. The Corporation’s other products, relating to its cancer technologies, are all manufactured for clinical trial purposes by the Corporation itself in its laboratory located at McMaster University Medical Center. The ability to ensure a continued supply of products on a timely basis is not entirely within the Corporation’s control. If the Corporation cannot obtain materials in a timely fashion, the progress of its clinical trials and product sales will be negatively affected. The Corporation faces potential risks of product liability, which may divert funding from ongoing operations and harm operating results. The sale and use of products under development by the Corporation entails risk of product liability. As standard practice, the Corporation has agreed to indemnify numerous clinical trial sites, including The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, St. Michael’s Hospital, St. Paul’s Hospital, St. Joseph’s Hospital, The Hamilton General Hospital, University of California, University Health Network (Princess Margaret Hospital), Hamilton Health Sciences Corporation, Montreal Heart Institute, University of Wisconsin Medical School, Johns Hopkins University Medical Center, AtheroGenics, Inc., University of Louisville Research Foundation, and McNeil Consumer Healthcare under its respective marketing agreements, for such liability. The Corporation maintains product liability insurance relating to the clinical trials that it conducts on its technologies, and it believes that such insurance would be reasonably adequate to cover any torts claims that may arise against the Corporation at present. Upon commercialization of its products, the Corporation will expand its insurance coverage to include the commercial sale of the Corporation’s products in the relevant territories. In addition, the Corporation maintains property, commercial general liability and tenant’s legal liability insurance. As the Corporation expands, there can be no assurance that it will be able to obtain appropriate levels of product liability insurance prior to any use of its products in clinical trials or for commercial sale. An inability to maintain insurance on economically feasible terms or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could inhibit or prevent the commercialization of products developed by the Corporation. The obligation to pay any product liability claim, or finance the costs of a recall of a product, could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and future prospects of the Corporation. If the Corporation is unable to acquire future technology necessary for its products, it may be unable to commercialize new products. The Corporation’s business depends on its ability to identify and negotiate the acquisition of or licenses for future technologies. For example, the Corporation’s cancer technologies are the subject of licenses to use the technologies. The Corporation may not be able to continue to successfully identify, acquire or license technologies in the future to add to its pipeline of products. The loss of any key employee could impair the Corporation’s ability to execute its business plan. The Corporation’s ability to develop products will depend, to a great extent, on its ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense. The Corporation is highly dependent on the principal members of its management and scientific staff and the loss of their services might impede the development objectives. The persons working with the Corporation are affected by a number of influences outside of the control of the Corporation. The loss of key employees may affect the speed and success of product development. See “Information on the Corporation - Business Overview.” To date, the Corporation has not experienced high rates of employee turnover. As an example, the Corporation’s President and Chief Executive Officer; Executive Vice President of Clinical and Regulatory Affairs; Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer; and Vice President, Corporate Development, have been employed by the Corporation for 13, nine, eight and six years, respectively. While the Corporation believes that it has been successful to date in employee retention, there is no assurance that the Corporation can continue to attract and keep key employees. 6 The Corporation is exposed to financial market risks such as interest rates and foreign exchange fluctuations. The Corporation is exposed to market risk related to changes in interest and foreign currency exchange rates, each of which could adversely affect the value of our current assets and liabilities. Our cash is invested in short-term, high-grade securities with varying maturities. Since the Corporation’s intention is to hold these securities to maturity, adverse changes in interest rates would not have a material effect on the Corporation’s results of operations. The Corporation also makes commitments with foreign suppliers for clinical trials and other services. Adverse changes in foreign exchange rates could increase the costs of these services. Changes in foreign exchange could also affect the Corporation’s ability to repay the convertible debentures since they are payable in U.S. dollars on maturity in August 2009. The Corporation does not anticipate paying dividends on its common shares, which may affect investors who require a certain amount of liquidity on their investments. The Corporation does not intend to pay dividends on its common shares in the foreseeable future, and thus the only return on an investment in the common shares will come from an increase, if any, in the price of the common shares. Investors who require dividend income should not depend on or expect to receive dividends on the common shares. Investors may encounter difficulties in enforcing civil liabilities against the Corporation in the United States. The Corporation is a Canadian corporation and a subsidiary, PreMD International Inc. (Switzerland), is a Swiss corporation. Substantially all of the assets of the Corporation or its subsidiaries are located in either Canada or in Switzerland and similarly, all of the executive officers, a majority of the directors of the Corporation and a majority of the experts named in this Annual Report also reside in Canada. As a result, it may be difficult for an investor to effect service of process within the United States upon the Corporation or its subsidiary, or upon such directors, executive officers and experts. Execution by U.S. courts of any judgment obtained against the Corporation, its subsidiary, or its directors or executive officers or the experts named in this Annual Report in U.S. courts would be limited to the assets of the Corporation or of such persons, as the case may be, in the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability in Canada or in Switzerland of U.S. judgments or liabilities in original actions in Canadian or Swiss courts predicated solely upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. Risks Related to the Corporation’s Industry Intense competition in the diagnostics industry may harm the Corporation’s ability to license and develop its products. Technological competition in the diagnostics industry is intense. The Corporation competes with other companies to license and develop products aimed at diagnosing similar conditions. Many of these companies have substantially greater resources than the Corporation. The Corporation may not be able to continue to license the technology that it needs to stay competitive. Further, technological developments by others may render the Corporation’s products or technologies non-competitive. See “Information on the Corporation - Business Overview.” Any inability by the Corporation to develop products and comply with government regulations may hinder or prevent the development and sale of the Corporation’s products. Prospects for emerging companies in the human diagnostics industry generally may be regarded as uncertain given the inherent nature of the industry and, accordingly, investments in such companies should be regarded as speculative. To achieve profitable operations, the Corporation, alone or with others, must successfully develop, introduce, secure regulatory clearance for and market its products. As at the date hereof, only PREVU* Point of Care (POC) Skin Sterol Test has received regulatory clearance from the FDA and HPB and is CE marked in Europe. 7 Securing regulatory clearances for the marketing of diagnostics products from the HPB in Canada and the FDA in the United States can be a long and expensive process, which can delay product development. In this regard, the Corporation has identified a U.S.-based regulatory affairs consultant to advise the Corporation on its regulatory applications. In order to obtain regulatory approval for a particular product, human clinical trials conducted by the Corporation must demonstrate that the product is safe for human use and shows efficacy. Unsatisfactory results obtained from a particular study relating to a program may cause the Corporation to abandon its commitment to that program. No assurances can be provided that any future human trials, if undertaken, will yield favorable results or that regulatory approval will be granted at all. In addition, if regulatory approval for a product is obtained by the Corporation it may be only for limited applications, thereby hindering the ability of the Corporation to widely market the product. Such events would have a material adverse effect on the sales and profitability of the Corporation. See “Information on the Corporation - Business Overview.” The Corporation may not be able to obtain reimbursement for its products as governments attempt to control rising healthcare costs. Reimbursement for new products has come under scrutiny in an effort to control rising health care costs. In addition to research into a product’s safety and efficacy, research also must be carried out to demonstrate cost-effectiveness for reimbursement purposes. This information is required for either government (Canada or E.U.) or third-party insurer purposes (U.S.). Failure to achieve listing in reimbursement schedules can have a dramatic impact on a product’s market penetration into the professional or laboratory market. The Corporation’s performance and general market volatility may cause the price of the common shares to decrease. The volatility of the Corporation’s share price may affect the trading market for the Corporation’s common shares. There can be no assurance that an active trading market for the common shares will be sustained. The Corporation’s share price could fluctuate significantly in the future for a number of reasons, including, among others, future announcements concerning the Corporation, its affiliates or strategic partners, quarterly variations in operating results, the introduction of competitive products, reports of results of clinical trials, regulatory developments, and intellectual property developments. In addition, stock markets, in general, and the market for shares of biotechnology and life science companies, in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years that may be unrelated to the operating performance or prospects of the affected companies. These broad market fluctuations may affect the market price of the Corporation’s common shares. Accordingly, an investment should be considered only by those investors who are able to make a long-term investment and can afford to suffer a total loss of their investment in the common shares. An investor should consider the merits of an investment in the common shares and should consult professional advisers to assess income tax, legal and other aspects of such an investment. ITEM 