Item 1A. Risk FactorsBefore investing in any of our securities, you should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information set forth in this Form 10-K. These risks could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition and could cause the trading price of our securities to decline. You could lose all or part of your investment. The headings used in this section are solely to aid the reader as to general categories of risks related to investing in the Company. Many of the risk factors listed apply to more than one category or to the Company generally. Accordingly, the headings used in this section should not be construed as limiting in any manner the general applicability of any of the risk factors included in this section.UNDERWRITING RISKSAs a property, marine and energy, agriculture, catastrophe and weather insurer and reinsurer, we are particularly vulnerable to losses from catastrophes.Our property, marine and energy, agriculture, catastrophe and other specialty insurance and reinsurance lines expose us to claims arising out of catastrophes. Catastrophes can be caused by various unpredictable events, including earthquakes, hurricanes, hailstorms, droughts, severe weather, floods, fires, tornadoes, volcano eruptions, explosions and other natural or man-made disasters. Many scientists believe that the earth’s atmospheric and oceanic temperatures are increasing and that, in recent years, changing climate conditions have increased the unpredictability, severity and frequency of natural disasters in certain parts of the world.37Table of ContentsThe global geographic distribution of our business subjects us to catastrophe exposure for natural events occurring in a number of areas throughout the world, including, but not limited to, windstorms in the United Kingdom and continental Europe, hurricanes in Florida, the Gulf Coast and the Atlantic coast regions of the United States, typhoons and earthquakes in Japan, New Zealand, Australia and other parts of Southeast Asia, earthquakes in California and the Pacific Northwest and New Madrid region of the United States and drought, hail, tornado and flooding in the Midwestern United States. From time to time, we may have greater exposures in one or more of these geographic areas than our overall share of the worldwide market might suggest. Accordingly, when and if catastrophes occur in these areas, we may experience relatively more severe negative results from such events than our competitors. In particular, the Company has historically had a relatively large percentage of its coverage exposures concentrated in the Northeast and mid-Atlantic states and the states of Texas, California and Florida, continental Europe, and Japan.In addition, changing climate conditions, primarily rising global temperatures, may be increasing, or may in the future increase the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes, including weather events, and may create new types of catastrophe losses. We expect that increases in the values and concentrations of insured property will increase the severity of such occurrences in the future. In the event that we experience catastrophe losses, there is a possibility that our premiums will be inadequate to cover these risks. In addition, because accounting regulations do not permit insurers and reinsurers to reserve for such catastrophic events until they occur, claims from catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the estimation of reserves related to catastrophic events can be affected by the inability to access portions of the affected areas, the complexity of factors contributing to the losses, legal and regulatory uncertainties and the nature of the information available to establish the reserves. Complex factors include but are not limited to: determining whether damage was caused by flooding versus wind; evaluating general liability and pollution exposures; estimating additional living expenses; the impact of demand surge; infrastructure disruption; fraud; the effect of mold damage; business interruption costs; and reinsurance collectability. The timing of a catastrophe’s occurrence, such as at or near the end of a reporting period, can also affect the information available to us in estimating reserves for that reporting period. The estimates related to catastrophes are adjusted as actual claims emerge and additional information becomes available. Our ability to write new business also could be adversely impacted. Although we attempt to manage our exposure to such events through the use of underwriting controls and the purchase of third-party reinsurance, catastrophic events are inherently unpredictable and the actual nature of such events when they occur could be more frequent or severe than contemplated in our pricing and risk management expectations. As a result, the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.As a property and casualty insurer and reinsurer, we could face losses from war, terrorism and political unrest.We may have substantial exposure to losses resulting from acts of war, acts of terrorism and political instability. These risks are inherently unpredictable, although recent events may lead to increased frequency and severity. It is difficult to predict their occurrence with statistical certainty or to estimate the amount of loss an occurrence will generate. Accordingly, it is possible that our loss reserves will be inadequate to cover these risks. We closely monitor the amount and types of coverage we provide for terrorism risk under insurance policies and reinsurance treaties. We often seek to exclude terrorism when we cannot reasonably evaluate the risk of loss or charge an appropriate premium for such risk. Even in cases where we have deliberately sought to exclude coverage, we may not be able to eliminate our exposure to terrorist acts, and thus it is possible that these acts will have a material adverse effect on us.We are exposed to, and may face adverse developments involving, mass tort claims such as those relating to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances.We face exposure to mass tort claims, including claims related to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances. Establishing claims and claim adjustment expense reserves for mass tort claims is subject to uncertainties because of many factors, including expanded theories of liability, disputes concerning medical causation with respect to certain diseases, geographical concentration of the lawsuits asserting the claims and the potential for a large rise in the total number of claims without underlying epidemiological developments suggesting an increase in disease rates. Moreover, evolving judicial interpretations regarding the application of various tort theories and defenses, including application of various theories of joint and several liabilities, as well as the application of insurance coverage to these claims, make it difficult to estimate our ultimate liability for such claims.Because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. In addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change, and such change could be material. These additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.38Table of ContentsThe risks associated with property and casualty reinsurance underwriting could adversely affect us.Because we participate in property and casualty reinsurance markets, the success of our underwriting efforts depends, in part, upon the policies, procedures and expertise of the ceding companies making the original underwriting decisions. We face the risk that these ceding companies may fail to accurately assess the risks that they assume initially, which, in turn, may lead us to inaccurately assess the risks we assume. If we fail to establish and receive appropriate premium rates, we could face significant losses on these contracts.When we enter into reinsurance contracts, all loss settlements made by a ceding company, provided they are within the terms of the underlying policies and within the terms of the relevant contract, will be unconditionally binding upon us. While we believe that the ceding companies will settle such claims in good faith, we are bound to accept the claims settlements agreed to by the ceding companies. Under the underlying policies, each ceding company bears the burden of proving that a contractual exclusion applies to a loss, and there may be circumstances where the facts of a loss are insufficient to support the application of an exclusion. In such circumstances, we assume such losses under the reinsured policies, which could materially adversely affect our performance. The terms of the Federal Multi-Peril Crop Insurance Program may change and adversely impact us.ARMtech currently participates in the U.S. Federal Multi-Peril Crop Insurance Program (“MPCI”) sponsored by the Risk Management Agency of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (the “RMA”). The U.S. Farm Bill was signed into law February 2014 and fixes the terms of the MPCI program for the next five years. ARMtech’s agriculture insurance premiums, which are primarily driven by MPCI, represent a large portion of our business, totaling $866.0 million of gross premiums written in 2014, and representing 50.5% of the total gross premiums written in our Insurance segment in 2014.The RMA periodically reviews and proposes changes to the Standard Reinsurance Agreement (“SRA”) used in connection with the MPCI program and such changes to the SRA could adversely affect the financial results of crop insurers such as ARMtech.As an agriculture insurer, we could face losses from commodity price volatility.A significant portion of our agriculture insurance business provides revenue protection to farmers for their expected crop revenues, which can be affected by changes in crop prices. We face the risk that significant losses could be incurred in the event of a decline in the applicable commodity prices prior to harvest. While this risk is partially mitigated by policyholder retentions, it is possible that large declines in the commodity prices of the major crops we insure, including corn, soybeans, cotton and wheat, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition if we are unable to effectively reinsure these risks or enter into applicable commodity price hedges.If actual renewals of our existing policies and contracts do not meet expectations, our gross premiums written in future years and our future results of operations could be materially adversely affected.Our insurance policies and reinsurance contracts are generally for a one-year term. In our financial forecasting process, we make assumptions about the renewal of our prior year’s policies and contracts. If actual renewals do not meet expectations, our gross premiums written in future years and our future results of operations could be materially adversely affected. This risk is especially prevalent in the first quarter of each year when a large number of insurance and reinsurance contracts are subject to renewal.The ongoing development of our excess and surplus lines insurance operations is subject to increased risk from changing market conditions.Excess and surplus lines insurance is a substantial portion of the business written by our U.S.- and U.K.-based insurance operations. Excess and surplus lines insurance covers risks that are typically more complex and unusual than standard risks and require a high degree of specialized underwriting. As a result, excess and surplus lines risks do not often fit the underwriting criteria of standard insurance carriers. Our excess and surplus lines insurance business fills the insurance needs of businesses with unique characteristics and is generally considered higher risk than those in the standard market. If our underwriting staff inadequately judges and prices the risks associated with the business underwritten in the excess and surplus lines market, our financial results could be adversely impacted.Further, the excess and surplus lines market is significantly affected by the conditions of the property and casualty insurance market in general. The impact of this cyclicality can be more pronounced in the excess and surplus market than in the standard insurance market. During times of hard market conditions (when market conditions are more favorable to insurers), as rates increase and coverage terms become more restrictive, business tends to move from the admitted market to the excess and surplus lines market and growth in the excess and surplus market can be significantly more rapid than growth in the standard 39Table of Contentsinsurance market. When soft market conditions are prevalent (when market conditions are less favorable to insurers), standard insurance carriers tend to loosen underwriting standards and expand market share by moving into business lines traditionally characterized as excess and surplus lines, exacerbating the effect of rate decreases. If we fail to manage the cyclical nature and volatility of the revenues and profit we generate in the excess and surplus lines market, our financial results could be adversely impacted.The failure of any of the loss limitation methods we employ, as well as an unexpected accumulation of attritional losses, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or on our results of operations.We seek to limit our loss exposure in a variety of ways, including by writing many of our insurance and reinsurance contracts on an excess of loss basis, adhering to maximum limitations on policies written in defined geographical zones, limiting program size for each client, establishing per risk and per occurrence limitations for each event, employing coverage restrictions, following prudent underwriting guidelines for each program written and purchasing reinsurance and retrocessional protection. In the case of proportional treaties, we generally seek per occurrence limitations or loss ratio caps to limit the impact of losses from any one event. Most of our direct liability insurance policies include maximum aggregate limitations. We also seek to limit our loss exposure through geographic diversification. Disputes relating to coverage and choice of legal forum may also arise. As a result, various provisions of our policies, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum, may not be enforceable in the manner we intend and some or all of our other loss limitation methods may prove to be ineffective. Underwriting is a matter of judgment, involving important assumptions about matters that are inherently unpredictable and beyond our control, and for which historical experience and probability analysis may not provide sufficient guidance. One or more future catastrophic or other events could result in claims that substantially exceed our expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our results of operations, possibly to the extent of eliminating our shareholders’ equity.Our operating results may also be adversely affected by unexpectedly large accumulations of smaller losses. We seek to manage this risk by using appropriate loss limitation methods as noted above. These processes are intended to ensure that premiums received are sufficient to cover the expected levels of attritional loss as well as a contribution to the cost of natural catastrophes and large losses where necessary. It is possible, however, that our loss limitation methods may not work as intended in this respect and that actual losses, including attritional losses, from a class of risks may be greater than expected, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our results of operations.We may be unable to purchase reinsurance and our net income could be reduced or we could incur a net loss in the event of an unusual loss experience.We purchase reinsurance if it is deemed prudent from a risk mitigation perspective or if it is expected to have a favorable cost/benefit relationship relative to our retained risk portfolio. Changes in the availability and cost of reinsurance, which are subject to market conditions that are outside of our control, may reduce to some extent our ability to use reinsurance to balance exposures across our reinsurance or insurance operations. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain our desired amounts of reinsurance. In addition, even if we are able to obtain such reinsurance, we may not be able to negotiate terms that we deem appropriate or acceptable or obtain such reinsurance from entities with satisfactory creditworthiness.We are also subject to credit risk with respect to our reinsurers because the transfer of risk to a reinsurer does not relieve us of our liability to our clients. If our reinsurance companies experience financial difficulties, they may be unable to pay us. In addition, reinsurers may be unwilling to pay us, even though they are able to do so. The failure of one or more of our reinsurers to honor their obligations to us in a timely fashion would impact our cash flow and reduce our net income and, depending upon the amount of reinsurance we have purchased, could cause us to incur a significant loss.Consolidation in the (re)insurance industry could adversely affect our business.Several (re)insurance industry participants are likely seeking to consolidate. These consolidated entities may try to use their enhanced market power to negotiate price reductions for our products and services and/or obtain a larger market share through increased line sizes. If competitive pressures reduce our prices, we would expect to write less business. As the (re)insurance industry consolidates, competition for customers will become more intense and the importance of acquiring and properly servicing each customer will become greater. We could incur greater expenses relating to customer acquisition and retention, further reducing our operating margins. In addition, insurance companies that merge may be able to spread their risks across a consolidated, larger capital base so that they require less reinsurance. Reinsurance intermediaries could also continue to consolidate, potentially adversely impacting our ability to access business and distribute our products. We could also experience more robust competition from larger, better capitalized competitors. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business or our results of operations.40Table of ContentsA decline in our financial strength ratings could affect our standing among brokers and customers and cause our premiums and earnings to decrease.Financial strength ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance and reinsurance companies. We currently maintain an A.M. Best financial strength rating of “A” (Excellent) with a stable outlook and an S&P financial strength rating of “A” (Strong) with a stable outlook and a Moody’s rating of “A3” with a stable outlook. Because all of our ratings are subject to continual review, the retention of these ratings cannot be assured. If our ratings are reduced from their current level by A.M. Best, S&P or Moody’s, our competitive position in the insurance and reinsurance industry would suffer. Such a downgrade may have a material negative impact on our ability to expand our insurance and reinsurance portfolio and renew our existing insurance and reinsurance policies and agreements, require us to establish trusts or post letters of credit for ceding company clients, and could trigger provisions allowing some ceding company clients to terminate their reinsurance contracts with us on terms disadvantageous to us. In addition, a downgrade of our A.M. Best rating below “B++” (two levels below our current rating) would constitute an event of default under our bank credit facility. Each of the effects of a downgrade of our financial strength rating described above could make it more expensive or otherwise difficult for us to compete in certain business segments in which we would otherwise desire to operate. If this were to occur, we could suffer a material and adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations, and the market price for our securities, including any ordinary shares, could be materially and adversely affected.It is possible that rating agencies may in the future heighten the level of scrutiny they apply when analyzing companies in our industry, may increase the frequency and scope of their reviews, may request additional information from the companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in their models for maintenance of certain rating levels.We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which could adversely affect our business. As with other companies in the financial services industry, our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without any notice.Profitability may be adversely impacted by inflation.The effects of inflation could cause the cost of claims from catastrophes or other events to rise in the future. Our reserve for losses and loss expenses includes assumptions about future payments for settlement of claims and claims handling expenses, such as medical treatments and litigation costs. To the extent inflation causes these costs to increase above reserves established for these claims, we will be required to increase our loss reserves with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is identified.Inflation could also lead to higher interest rates causing the current unrealized gain position in the Company’s fixed maturity portfolio to decrease.Adverse changes to the economy in the countries in which we operate could lower the demand for our insurance and reinsurance products and could have a materially adverse effect on the profitability of our operations.Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, indirectly, the amount and profitability of our business. In an economic environment characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for insurance products could be adversely affected. Adverse changes in the economy could potentially lead our customers to have less need for insurance coverage, to cancel existing insurance policies, modify coverage or to not renew with us, and our premium revenue could be adversely affected. Challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our customers to pay premiums as they come due.The downgrade in the credit ratings for U.S. government securities by various credit rating agencies and the continuing economic instability in the Eurozone have resulted in global financial market uncertainty and economic instability. Consequently, evolving market conditions may continue to affect our investment portfolio, results of operations, financial position and capital resources. In the event that there is further deterioration or volatility in financial markets or general economic conditions, our investment portfolio, results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity, and competitive landscape could be materially and adversely affected.41Table of ContentsSince we depend on a few brokers for a large portion of our revenues, loss of business provided by any one of them could adversely affect us.We market our insurance and reinsurance worldwide through insurance and reinsurance brokers. In the year ended December 31, 2014, our top three brokers represented approximately 50.2% of our net premiums written. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided by one or more of these brokers could have a material adverse effect on our business.Our reliance on brokers subjects us to their credit risk.In accordance with industry practice, we frequently pay amounts owed on claims under our insurance or reinsurance contracts to brokers, and these brokers, in turn, pay these amounts to the clients that have purchased insurance or reinsurance from us. If a broker fails to make such a payment, in a significant majority of business that we write, it is highly likely that we will be liable to the client for the deficiency because of local laws or contractual obligations, notwithstanding the broker’s obligation to make such payment. Likewise, when the client pays premiums for these policies to brokers for payment over to us, these premiums are considered to have been paid and, in most cases, the client will no longer be liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we have actually received the premiums. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with brokers around the world with respect to most of our insurance and reinsurance business. To date we have not experienced any losses related to such credit risks.The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain.As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either broadening coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until sometime after we have issued insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance or reinsurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued.Recent examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include:•An increase in the dollar magnitude of security class action settlements, particularly in the settlement of mega-cases, covered by professional liability and directors’ and officers’ liability insurance;•continued challenges to tort reform by plaintiffs with mixed results across the United States;•a low interest rate environment, which continues to create upward pressure on settlement values;•a growing trend of plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers relating to claims-handling practices in the adjustment of losses relating to natural disasters; and•securities litigation with a focus on initial public offerings and merger and acquisition activities.We may also be deemed liable for losses arising out of a matter that we had not anticipated or had attempted to contractually exclude. Moreover, irrespective of the clarity and inclusiveness of policy language, there can be no assurance that a court or arbitration panel will limit enforceability of policy language or not issue a ruling adverse to us. Our exposure to these uncertainties could be exacerbated by the increased willingness of some market participants to dispute insurance and reinsurance contract and policy wordings. Alternatively, potential efforts by us to exclude such exposures could, if successful, reduce the market’s acceptance of our related products. The effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.We operate in a highly competitive environment which could adversely impact our operating margins.The insurance and reinsurance industries are highly competitive. We compete with major U.S. and non-U.S. insurers and reinsurers, including other Bermuda-based insurers and reinsurers. Many of our competitors have greater financial, marketing and management resources. In addition, we may not be aware of other companies that may be planning to enter the segments of the insurance and reinsurance market in which we operate or of existing companies that may be planning to raise additional capital. Increasing competition could result in fewer submissions, lower premium rates and less favorable policy terms and conditions, which could have a material adverse impact on our growth and profitability.Further, insurance/risk-linked securities and derivative and other non-traditional risk transfer mechanisms and vehicles are being developed and offered by other parties, including non-insurance company entities, which could impact the demand for traditional insurance or reinsurance. A number of new, proposed or potential industry or legislative developments could further increase competition in our industry. New competition from these developments could cause the demand for insurance 42Table of Contentsor reinsurance to fall or the expense of customer acquisition and retention to increase, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our growth and profitability.The historical cyclicality of the property and casualty reinsurance industry may cause fluctuations in our results.Historically, property and casualty insurers and reinsurers have experienced significant fluctuations in operating results due to competition, frequency of occurrence or severity of catastrophic events, levels of capacity, general economic conditions and other factors. Demand for insurance and reinsurance is influenced significantly by prevailing general economic conditions and, in the case of reinsurance, the underwriting results of primary property and casualty insurers. The supply of insurance and reinsurance is related to prevailing prices, the levels of insured losses and the levels of industry surplus which, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments being earned in the insurance and reinsurance industry. As a result, the insurance and reinsurance business historically has been a cyclical industry characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted favorable premium levels. The continued strength of the industry’s surplus position and the establishment of new market entrants has increased the supply of insurance and reinsurance and has caused insurance and reinsurance prices in many of the markets in which we participate to decrease in the past five years. Any of these factors could lead to a significant reduction in premium rates, less favorable policy terms and fewer submissions for insurance and reinsurance coverage. In addition to these considerations, changes in the frequency and severity of losses suffered by insureds and cedants may affect the cycles of the insurance and reinsurance business significantly. To the extent these trends continue, our financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.INVESTMENT RISKSWe are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.We are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, market volatility, the performance of the economy in general, the performance of the specific issuers included in our portfolio and other factors outside our control.Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in interest rates. A rise in interest rates, in the absence of other countervailing changes, will reduce the net unrealized gain or increase the net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolio. As portions of our fixed maturity investments mature, we may be forced to reinvest these investments at lower rates, which could result in materially lower investment yields. In the event that our estimate of our liability-cash flow profile is inaccurate, we may be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to cover the liability. Although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to adequately mitigate the interest rate risk of our assets relative to our liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.Our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in credit spreads. If issuer credit spreads widen or increase significantly over an extended period of time, it may result in a net unrealized loss position in our investment portfolio. If credit spreads tighten significantly, it will reduce net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed maturity investments.Our exposure to equity price risk relates primarily to equity market price variability. Although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing equity market, we may not be able to adequately mitigate the equity risk of our assets relative to our liabilities.Our primary foreign currency exchange risks are related to net income from foreign operations, non–U.S. dollar denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries, cash and premium receivable balances and reserves. In general, the weakening of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar will unfavorably affect net income from foreign operations, investments in foreign subsidiaries, and the value of cash, investments and premium receivable balances offset by reserves held in currencies other than U.S. dollars.43Table of ContentsA portion of our investment portfolio is allocated to alternative and specialty investment funds that we expect will have different risk characteristics than our investments in traditional fixed maturity securities, equity securities and short-term investments, which in turn could result in a material adverse change to our investment performance, and accordingly adversely affect our financial results.A portion of our investment portfolio is allocated to alternative funds and specialty funds, which we expect to have different risk characteristics than our investments in traditional fixed maturity securities, equity securities and short-term investments. Our alternative funds include investments in hedge funds and private investment funds that generally invest in senior secured bank debt, high yield credit securities, distressed debt, macro strategies, multi-strategy, equity long/short strategies, distressed real estate, and energy sector private equity. Our specialty funds currently include investments in high yield loan funds. The amount and timing of net investment income from such alternative and specialty investment funds tends to be uneven as a result of the performance of the underlying investments. The timing of distributions from these investments, which depends on particular events relating to the underlying investments, as well as the funds’ schedules for making distributions and their needs for cash, can be difficult to predict. The amount of net investment income that we record from these investments can vary substantially from quarter to quarter. Many of the investments are subject to restrictions on redemptions and sales that limit our ability to liquidate these investments in the short-term. These investments expose us to market risks including interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, equity price risk and credit risk. In addition, we typically do not hold the underlying securities of these investments in our custody accounts. As a result, we generally do not have the ability to quantify the risks associated with these investments in the same manner as we have for our fixed maturity portfolio. The performance of these investments is also dependent on the individual investment managers and their investment strategies. It is possible that the investment managers will leave and/or the investment strategies will become ineffective. Any of the foregoing could result in a material adverse change to our investment performance, and accordingly adversely affect our financial results.Losses due to defaults by others, including issuers of investment securities (which include structured securities such as commercial mortgage-backed securities and residential mortgage-backed securities or high yield bonds), and reinsurance counterparties could adversely affect the value of our investments, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.Issuers or borrowers whose securities or loans we hold, customers, reinsurers, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries and guarantors may default on the principal and interest they owe to us due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure, fraud or other reasons. We are also subject to the risk that the underlying collateral within loan-backed securities, including mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, may default on principal and interest payments causing an adverse change in cash flows paid to us. The occurrence of a major economic downturn, acts of corporate malfeasance, widening risk spreads, or other events that adversely impact the issuers, guarantors or underlying collateral of these securities could cause the value of our investment portfolio and our net income to decline and the default rate of our fixed maturity investments to increase. A ratings downgrade affecting issuers or guarantors of particular securities, or similar trends that could worsen the credit quality of issuers, such as the corporate issuers of securities in our investment portfolio, could also have a similar effect. With economic uncertainty, credit quality of issuers or guarantors could be adversely affected. Similarly, a ratings downgrade affecting a loan-backed security we hold could indicate the credit quality of that security has deteriorated. Any event reducing the value of these securities other than on a temporary basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Levels of write down or impairment are impacted by our assessment of the intent and ability to hold securities which have declined in value and whether such declines in the Company’s value below amortized cost are due to credit related factors.We have also engaged third party investment managers to provide us with investment advisory and management services. It is possible that the investment strategies employed by these third party investment managers may become ineffective or that such managers will fail to follow our investment guidelines, which could result in a material adverse change to our investment performance, and accordingly adversely affect our financial results.The further downgrade of U.S. or foreign government securities by credit rating agencies could adversely impact the value of the U.S. or foreign government and other securities in our investment portfolio and create uncertainty in the market generally.The further downgrade of the U.S. or foreign government securities by credit rating agencies has the potential to adversely impact the value of the U.S. or foreign government and other securities in our investment portfolio. A further downgrade in the rating of U.S. or foreign government securities may cause the Company’s investment portfolio’s average credit rating to fall and may result in the Company no longer being in compliance with its current investment policy at its current level of U.S. or foreign government security holdings. In addition to the foregoing, a further downgrade in the rating of U.S. or foreign government securities may have an adverse impact on fixed income markets, which in turn could cause our net investment income to decline or have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.44Table of ContentsOur investment portfolio contains direct and indirect exposure to the indebtedness and equity securities of those countries whose currency is the Euro or whose sovereign debt rating is below AAA (except the U.S.) which may be subject to increased liquidity risk, interest rate risk and default risk as a result of economic conditions in those countries. Increased defaults or a significant increase in interest rates could result in losses, realized or unrealized, in the fair value of our investment portfolio and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.The determination of the other-than-temporary impairments taken on our investments is highly subjective and could materially impact our financial position or results of operations.The determination of the amount of other-than-temporary impairments recognized on our investments varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class as well as an analysis on a security by security basis. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects impairments in operations as such evaluations are revised.During periods of market disruption including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities, such as mortgage-backed securities, if trading becomes less frequent or market data becomes less observable. In addition, there may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid. In such cases, more securities may require more subjectivity and management judgment in determining their values, including the use of inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation as well as valuation methods, which are more sophisticated or require greater estimation thereby resulting in values which may differ materially from the value at which the investments may be ultimately sold. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.There can be no assurance that our management has accurately assessed the level of impairments taken in our financial statements. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken in the future, which could materially impact our financial position or results of operations. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments.Some of our investments are relatively illiquid and are in asset classes that may experience significant market valuation fluctuations.We hold certain investments that may lack liquidity, such as our alternative funds and specialty funds. If we require significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of normal cash requirements or are required to post or return collateral in connection with our investment portfolio or securities lending activities, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize, or both.The reported value of our relatively illiquid types of investments and, at times, our high quality, generally liquid asset classes, do not necessarily reflect the lowest current market price for the asset. If we were forced to sell certain of our assets in the current market, there can be no assurance that we will be able to sell them for the prices at which we have recorded them, and we may be forced to sell them at significantly lower prices.We are exposed to equity market risks, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.We are exposed to risks associated with our investments in equity securities, which are subject to significant financial and capital markets risk, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, real estate markets, the performance of the economy in general, the performance of the specific securities included in our investment portfolio and other factors outside our control.Our exposure to equity price risk relates primarily to equity market price variability. Although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing equity market, we may not be able to adequately mitigate the equity risk of our assets relative to our liabilities, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.45Table of ContentsWe are exposed to derivative financial instrument risks, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.We are exposed to risks associated with our investments in derivative financial instruments, which are subject to significant financial and capital markets risk, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, weather elements such as temperature, precipitation, snowfall and windspeed, market volatility, the performance of the economy in general, the performance of the specific securities included in our investment portfolio and other factors outside our control.Losses due to defaults by our derivative counterparties could adversely affect the value of our investments, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.Derivative counterparties may default on the amounts they owe to us due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure, fraud or other reasons. The occurrence of a major economic downturn, acts of corporate malfeasance, widening risk spreads or other events that adversely impact our derivative counterparties or the collateral supporting our derivative instruments could cause our net income to decline and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The Company attempts to mitigate losses from defaults by our derivative counterparties, where possible, by requiring daily margin postings.Our failure to comply with the financial strength standards governing our derivative instruments could obligate us to post collateral or settle our outstanding derivative instruments.Certain of the Company’s derivative agreements contain provisions that are tied to the financial strength ratings of the individual legal entity which entered into the derivative agreement as set by nationally recognized statistical rating agencies. If the legal entity’s financial strength were to fall below certain ratings, the counterparties to the derivative agreements could demand immediate and ongoing full collateralization and in certain instances demand immediate settlement of all outstanding derivative positions traded under each impacted bilateral agreement. The settlement amount is determined by netting the derivative positions transacted under each agreement. If the termination rights were to be exercised by the counterparties, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and ability to conduct hedging activities by increasing the associated costs and decreasing the willingness of counterparties to transact with the legal entity.Our investment liquidity and investment performance may affect our financial assets and ability to conduct business.We derive a significant portion of our income from our invested assets. As a result, our operating results depend in part on the performance of our investment portfolio, which consists primarily of fixed maturity investments. Our operating results are subject to a variety of investment risks, including risks relating to general economic conditions, market volatility, interest rate fluctuations, liquidity risk and credit and default risk. In addition, we are subject to pre-payment or reinvestment risk as well as restrictions on redemptions or sale of certain of our investments.With respect to our liabilities, we strive to structure our investments in a manner that recognizes their cash flow profile and our potential liquidity needs. In that regard, we attempt to correlate the maturity and duration of our investment portfolio to our liability profile. However, if our liquidity needs or liability profile unexpectedly changes, we may not be successful in continuing to structure our investment portfolio in that manner. The market value of our fixed maturity portfolio will be subject to fluctuations depending on changes in various factors, including prevailing interest rates. To the extent that we are unsuccessful in correlating our investment portfolio with our liabilities, we may be forced to liquidate our investments at times and prices that are not optimal, which could have a material adverse effect on the performance of our investment portfolio.Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Although we take measures to attempt to manage the risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to mitigate interest rate sensitivity effectively. A significant increase in interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our book value.46Table of ContentsLIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RISKSOur holding company structure and certain regulatory and other constraints affect our ability to pay dividends and make other payments.Endurance Holdings is a holding company and, as such, has no substantial operations of its own. Dividends and other permitted distributions from our operating subsidiaries are expected to be Endurance Holdings’ primary source of funds to meet ongoing cash requirements, including debt service payments and other expenses, and to pay dividends, if any, to shareholders. Bermuda law and regulations, including, but not limited to, Bermuda insurance regulations, restrict the declaration and payment of dividends and the making of distributions by Endurance Bermuda unless certain regulatory requirements are met. The inability of Endurance Bermuda to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable Endurance Holdings to meet its cash requirements at the holding company level could have a material adverse effect on its operations. In addition, Endurance Holdings’ U.S. and U.K. operating subsidiaries are subject to significant regulatory restrictions limiting their ability to declare and pay dividends. We therefore do not expect to receive material dividends from these operating subsidiaries for the foreseeable future.Endurance Holdings is subject to Bermuda regulatory constraints that will affect its ability to pay dividends on its ordinary shares, 7.75% Non-Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series A and 7.50% Non-Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series B (together, the “Preferred Shares”) and to make other payments. Under the Bermuda Companies Act 1981, as amended (the “Companies Act”), Endurance Holdings may declare or pay a dividend or make a distribution out of retained earnings or contributed surplus only if it has reasonable grounds for believing that it is, or would after the payment be, able to pay its liabilities as they become due and if the realizable value of its assets would thereby not be less than the aggregate of its liabilities and issued share capital and share premium accounts. In addition, the terms of our credit facility prohibit Endurance Holdings from declaring or paying any dividends if a default or event of default has occurred and is continuing at the time of such declaration or payment or would result from such declaration or payment. In addition, the terms of the Preferred Shares prohibit the declaration or payment of dividends on our ordinary shares unless dividends on the Preferred Shares have been declared and paid. Preference shares, including the Preferred Shares, may also not be redeemed if as a result of the redemption, our issued share capital would be reduced below the minimum capital specified in the memorandum of association of Endurance Holdings.We could incur substantial losses and reduced liquidity if one of the financial institutions we use in our operations, including those institutions that participate in our credit facility, fails.We have exposure to counterparties in many different industries and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, hedge funds and other investment funds and other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty. In addition, with respect to secured transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the obligation. Current reinsurance recoverables are subject to the credit risk of the reinsurers.We maintain cash balances, including restricted cash held in premium trust accounts, significantly in excess of the FDIC insurance limits at various depository institutions. We also maintain cash balances in foreign banks and institutions and rely upon funding commitments from several banks and financial institutions that participate in our credit facility. If one or more of these financial institutions were to fail, our ability to access cash balances or draw down on our credit facility may be temporarily or permanently limited, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.The cost of reinsurance security arrangements may materially impact our margins.As a Bermuda reinsurer, Endurance Bermuda is required to post collateral with respect to reinsurance liabilities it assumes from ceding insurers domiciled in the U.S. The posting of collateral is generally required in order for U.S. ceding companies to obtain credit on their U.S. statutory financial statements with respect to reinsurance liabilities ceded to unlicensed or unaccredited reinsurers, such as Endurance Bermuda. Under applicable statutory provisions, the security arrangements may be in the form of letters of credit, reinsurance trusts maintained by third-party trustees or funds-withheld arrangements whereby the trusteed assets are held by the ceding company. Endurance Bermuda has the ability to issue up to $700.0 million in letters of credit under our letter of credit and revolving credit facility that expires on April 19, 2016. If this facility is not sufficient or if the Company is unable to renew this facility or is unable to arrange for other types of security on commercially acceptable terms, the ability of Endurance Bermuda to provide reinsurance to U.S.-based clients may be severely limited.Security arrangements may subject our assets to security interests and/or require that a portion of our assets be pledged to, or otherwise held by, third parties. Although the investment income derived from our assets while held in trust typically 47Table of Contentsaccrues to our benefit, the investment of these assets is governed by the investment regulations of the state of domicile of the ceding insurer, which may be more restrictive than the investment regulations applicable to us under Bermuda law. The restrictions may result in lower investment yields on these assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability.Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital.Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to underwrite new business successfully, to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses, and to maintain our current rating agency ratings. In addition, we need liquidity to pay our operating expenses and without sufficient liquidity, we will be forced to curtail our operations, and our business will suffer. The principal sources of our liquidity are our invested assets. Sources of liquidity in normal markets also include a variety of short- and long-term instruments, including repurchase agreements, commercial paper, medium- and long-term debt, junior subordinated debt securities, capital securities and shareholders’ equity.In the event current resources do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large investment losses or if the level of our business activity decreases due to a market downturn. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. Our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all.Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business, most significantly our insurance operations. Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities; satisfy statutory capital requirements; generate fee income and market-related revenue to meet liquidity needs; and access the capital necessary to grow our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter tenor securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our shareholders could result, and in any case such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our already outstanding securities. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets and an inability to obtain adequate capital.Our failure to comply with restrictive covenants contained in the indentures governing our senior notes or our current or future credit facility could trigger prepayment obligations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.The indentures governing our senior notes contain covenants that impose restrictions on us and certain of our subsidiaries with respect to, among other things, the incurrence of liens and the disposition of capital stock of these subsidiaries. In addition, our credit facility requires us and/or certain of our subsidiaries to comply with certain covenants, including the maintenance of a minimum consolidated net tangible worth and restrictions on the payment of dividends. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default under the indentures or our credit facility, which, if not cured or waived, could result in us being required to repay the notes or any amounts outstanding under the credit facility prior to maturity. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.LEGAL AND REGULATORY RISKSRecent or future legislation may decrease the demand for our property catastrophe reinsurance products and adversely affect our business and results of operations.It is possible that U.S. states, particularly those with Atlantic or Gulf Coast exposures, may enact new or expanded legislation establishing further state involvement in providing or governing the insurance or reinsurance of catastrophe exposed risks, or may otherwise enact legislation, that might further diminish aggregate private market demand for our products. Alternatively, legislation adversely impacting the private markets could be enacted on a regional or at the Federal level. Moreover, we believe that numerous modeled potential catastrophes could exceed the actual or politically acceptable bonded capacity of one or more of the catastrophe funds established by U.S. states, which could lead either to a severe dislocation or the necessity of Federal intervention in the markets of one or more of those states, either of which would adversely impact the private insurance and reinsurance industry.48Table of ContentsThe regulatory system under which we operate, and potential changes thereto, including heightened scrutiny of issues and practices in the insurance industry could have a material adverse effect on our business.The laws and regulations under which we operate, such as the regulations governing our insurance rates and forms, the U.S. multi-peril crop insurance program and the purchase of reinsurance by property insurers in Florida, could be revised in a manner materially adverse to the manner in which we conduct our business.The insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework continues to be subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions, including the U.S. and various states within the U.S. It is possible such scrutiny could include us and it is also possible that investigations or related regulatory developments could mandate or otherwise give rise to changes in industry practices in a fashion that increases our costs or requires us to alter how we conduct our business. In addition, if our Bermuda insurance or reinsurance operations become subject to the insurance laws of any state in the U.S., we could face inquiries or challenges to the future operations of these companies.Our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations or accreditations, or may be able to do so only at great cost. In addition, we may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, the wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance or reinsurance companies or holding companies. Failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate exemptions under any applicable laws could result in restrictions on our ability to do business in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate and fines and other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.Although surplus lines insurance business is generally less regulated than the admitted insurance market, the regulation of surplus lines insurance may undergo changes in the future. Federal and/or state measures may be introduced and promulgated that could result in increased oversight and regulation of surplus lines insurance.Endurance American and Endurance Risk Solutions write insurance on an admitted basis within the U.S. and are subject to extensive regulation. Endurance American and Endurance Risk Solutions are primarily regulated by their state of domicile under state statutes which confer comprehensive regulatory, supervisory and administrative powers on state insurance commissioners. Such regulation generally is designed to protect policyholders rather than investors or shareholders of the insurer.Our current or future business strategy could cause one or more of our currently unregulated non-insurance subsidiaries to become subject to some form of regulation. Any failure to comply with applicable laws could result in the imposition of significant restrictions on our ability to do business, and could also result in fines and other sanctions, any or all of which could adversely affect our financial results and operations.Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may impact the operations of our insurance and non-insurance subsidiaries and ultimately could impact our financial condition as well. In addition, we could be adversely affected if a regulatory authority believed we had failed to comply with applicable law or regulation. Despite our efforts to maintain effective compliance procedures, there is a risk that applicable laws and regulations may be unclear, subject to multiple interpretations, under development or may conflict with one another, that regulators may revise their previous guidance or that courts overturn previous rulings, or that we could otherwise fail to meet the applicable standards.The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) may adversely impact our business.The U.S. Congress and the current administration have made, or called for consideration of, several additional proposals relating to a variety of issues with respect to financial regulation reform, including regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market, the establishment of a single-state system of licensure for U.S. and foreign reinsurers, regulation of executive compensation and others. One of those initiatives, the Dodd-Frank Act, was signed into law by President Obama on July 21, 2010. The Dodd-Frank Act represented a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the United States and established a Federal Insurance Office under the U.S. Treasury Department to monitor all aspects of the insurance industry and of lines of business other than certain health insurance, certain long-term care insurance and crop insurance. The director of the Federal Insurance Office has the ability to recommend that an insurance company or an insurance holding company be subject to heightened prudential standards under the supervision of the Federal Reserve.49Table of ContentsSolvency II could adversely impact our financial results and operations.Solvency II, a European Union directive concerning capital adequacy, risk management and regulatory reporting for insurers, which was adopted by the European Parliament in April of 2009, may adversely affect our (re)insurance businesses. Implementation of Solvency II by the European Commission will replace the current solvency requirements and was expected to take effect January 1, 2014 in the European Union Member States. The European Insurance and Occupations Pensions Authority published its final guidelines for the preparation of Solvency II on September 27, 2013. The scheduled effective date for Solvency II is now January 1, 2016 for all European Economic Area member state (re)insurers. Implementation of Solvency II will require us to utilize a significant amount of resources to ensure compliance. In addition, the implementing measures that will establish the technical requirements governing the practical application of Solvency II remain subject to a consultation process; consequently, our implementation plans are based on our current understanding of the Solvency II requirements, which may change. The European Union is in the process of considering the Solvency II equivalence of Bermuda’s insurance regulatory and supervisory regime. The European Union equivalence assessment considers whether Bermuda’s regulatory regime provides a similar level of policyholder protection as provided under Solvency II. A finding that Bermuda’s insurance regulatory regime is not equivalent to the European Union’s Solvency II could have an adverse effect on our reinsurance operations in the European Union and on our group solvency calculations. Such a finding could also have adverse indirect commercial impacts on our operations. We are monitoring the ongoing legislative and regulatory steps following adoption of Solvency II. The principles, standards and requirements of Solvency II may also, directly or indirectly, impact the future supervision of additional operating subsidiaries of ours.Our international business is subject to applicable laws and regulations relating to sanctions and foreign corrupt practices, the violation of which could adversely affect our operations.We must comply with all applicable economic and financial sanctions, other trade controls and anti-bribery laws and regulations of the United States and other foreign jurisdictions where we operate, including the United Kingdom and the European Community. United States laws and regulations applicable to us include the economic trade sanctions laws and regulations administered by the United States Department of Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control as well as certain laws administered by the United States Department of State. In addition, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-bribery laws such as the U.K. Bribery Act that generally bar corrupt payments or unreasonable gifts to foreign government officials. Although we have policies and controls in place that are designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, it is possible that an employee or intermediary acting on our behalf could fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations. In such event, we could be exposed to civil penalties, criminal penalties and other sanctions, including fines or other unintended punitive actions. In addition, such violations could damage our business and/or our reputation. Such criminal or civil sanctions, penalties, other sanctions, and damage to our business and/or reputation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.OPERATING RISKSChanges in current accounting practices and future pronouncements may materially impact our reported financial results.Unanticipated developments in accounting practices may require us to incur considerable additional expenses to comply with such developments, particularly if it is required to prepare information relating to prior periods for comparative purposes or to apply the new requirements retroactively. The impact of changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements cannot be predicted but may affect the calculation of net income, net equity, and other relevant financial statement line items.Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period and may not be indicative of our long-term prospects.Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period. These fluctuations result from a variety of factors, including the seasonality of the reinsurance and insurance business, the volume and mix of reinsurance and insurance products that we write, loss experience on our reinsurance and insurance liabilities, the performance of our investment portfolio and our ability to assess and integrate our risk management strategy effectively. In particular, we seek to underwrite products and make investments to achieve long-term results. As a result, our short-term results of operations may not be indicative of our long-term prospects.50Table of ContentsIf actual claims exceed our reserve for losses and loss expenses, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.Our success depends upon our ability to accurately assess the risks associated with the businesses that we insure or reinsure. We establish loss reserves to cover our estimated liability for the payment of all losses and loss expenses incurred with respect to premiums earned on the policies that we write. Loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Rather, loss reserves are estimates of what we expect the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost. These estimates are based upon actuarial and statistical projections and on our assessment of currently available data, as well as estimates of future trends in claims severity and frequency, judicial theories of liability and other factors. Loss reserve estimates are refined continually in an ongoing process as experience develops and claims are reported and settled. Establishing an appropriate level of loss reserves is an inherently uncertain process. Moreover, these uncertainties are greater for companies like us than for those with a longer operating history because we do not yet have an extensive loss history. Because of this uncertainty, it is possible that our reserves at any given time will prove inadequate.To the extent we determine that actual losses and loss expenses exceed our expectations and loss reserves recorded in our financial statements, we will be required to increase our reserve for losses and loss expenses. This could cause a material reduction in our profitability and capital.We may be adversely affected by foreign currency fluctuations.We have made a significant investment in the capitalization of Endurance U.K., which is denominated in British Sterling. In addition, we enter into reinsurance and insurance contracts where we are obligated to pay losses in currencies other than U.S. dollars. For the year ended December 31, 2014, approximately 16.2% of our gross premiums were written in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. A portion of our cash and cash equivalents, investments and loss reserves are also denominated in non-U.S. currencies. The majority of our operating foreign currency assets and liabilities are denominated in Euros, British Sterling, Canadian Dollars, Japanese Yen, New Zealand Dollars and Australian Dollars. We may, from time to time, experience losses from fluctuations in the values of these and other non-U.S. currencies, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.We periodically buy and sell currencies or investment securities denominated in non-U.S. dollars in an attempt to match our non-U.S. dollar assets to our related non-U.S. dollar liabilities. We currently have no currency hedges in place but may implement hedges in the future. As part of our asset-liability matching strategy, we also consider the use of hedges when we become aware of probable significant losses that will be paid in non-U.S. currencies. However, it is possible that we will not successfully match our exposures or structure the hedges to effectively manage these risks.Acquisitions or strategic investments that we made or may make could turn out to be unsuccessful.As part of our strategy, we have pursued and may continue to pursue growth through acquisitions and/or strategic investments in new businesses. The negotiation of potential acquisitions or strategic investments as well as the integration of an acquired business or new personnel could result in a substantial diversion of management resources. Successful integration will depend on, among other things, our ability to effectively integrate acquired businesses or new personnel into our existing risk management techniques, our ability to effectively manage any regulatory issues created by our entry into new markets and geographic locations, our ability to retain key personnel and other operational and economic factors. There can be no assurance that the integration of acquired business or new personnel will be successful or that the business acquired will prove to be profitable or sustainable. The failure to integrate successfully or to manage the challenges presented by the integration process may adversely impact our financial results. Acquisitions could involve numerous additional risks such as: •potential losses from unanticipated litigation or levels of claims; •the inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs; •the value of assets related to acquisitions or new ventures may be lower than expected or may diminish due to credit defaults or changes in interest rates and liabilities assumed may be greater than expected; •the assets and liabilities related to acquisitions or new ventures may be subject to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation; and•financial exposures in the event that sellers of the entities we acquire are unable or unwilling to meet their indemnification, reinsurance and other obligations to us.Our ability to manage our growth through acquisitions or strategic investments will depend, in part, on our success in addressing these risks. Any failure by us to effectively implement our acquisitions or strategic investment strategies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.51Table of ContentsOperational risks, including systems or human failures, are inherent in business, including ours, and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.We are subject to operational risks including fraud, employee errors, failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization, failure to comply with regulatory requirements or obligations under our agreements, information technology failures, or external events. Losses from these risks may occur from time to time and may be significant. As our business and operations grow more complex, we are exposed to more risk in these areas.Our modeling, underwriting and information technology systems are critical to our success. Moreover, our proprietary technology and application systems have been an important part of our underwriting strategy and our ability to compete successfully. We have also licensed certain systems and data from third parties. We cannot be certain that we will have access to these, or comparable, service providers, or that our information technology or application systems will continue to operate as intended. While we have implemented disaster recovery and other business continuity plans, a defect or failure in our internal controls or information technology systems could result in reduced or delayed revenue growth, higher than expected losses, management distraction, or harm to our operations and/or our reputation. We believe appropriate controls and mitigation procedures are in place to prevent significant risk of defect in our internal controls and information technology systems, but internal controls provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance as to the absence of errors or irregularities and any ineffectiveness of such controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business.Our efforts to develop products, expand in targeted markets or modify our business and strategic plans may not be successful and may create enhanced risks.A number of our planned business initiatives involve developing new products or expanding existing products in targeted markets. To develop new products or markets, we may need to make substantial capital and operating expenditures, which may negatively impact our results in the near term. In addition, the demand for new products or in new markets may not meet our expectations. To the extent we are able to market new products or expand in new markets, our risk exposures may change and the data and models we use to manage such exposures may not be as sophisticated as those we use in existing markets or with existing products. This, in turn, could lead to losses in excess of expectations.As part of our ongoing efforts to continually improve our performance, we regularly evaluate our business plans and strategies, which may result in changes to our business plans and initiatives, some of which may be material. We are subject to increasing risks related to our ability to successfully implement our evolving plans and strategies. Changing plans and strategies requires significant management time and effort, and may divert management’s attention from our core operations and competencies. Moreover, modifications we undertake to our operations may not immediately result in improved financial performance. Therefore, risks associated with implementing or changing our business strategies and initiatives, including risks related to developing or enhancing the operations, controls and other infrastructure required for these strategies and initiatives, may not have a positive impact on our publicly reported results until many years after implementation. The risk that we may fail to have the ability to carry out our business plans may have an adverse effect on our long-term results of operations and financial condition.Technology breaches or failures, including but not limited to cyber security incidents, could disrupt business operations, result in the loss of critical and confidential information, and adversely impact our reputation and results of operations.Global cyber security threats can range from uncoordinated individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems and those of our business partners or services providers to sophisticated and targeted measures known as advanced persistent threats. While we and our business partners and services providers employ measures to prevent, detect, address and mitigate these threats (including access controls, data encryption, vulnerability assessments, continuous monitoring of information technology networks and systems and maintenance of backup and protective systems), cyber security incidents, depending on their nature and scope, could potentially result in the misappropriation, destruction, corruption or unavailability of critical data and confidential or proprietary information (our own or that of third parties) and the disruption of business operations. Security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of our information, litigation and potential liability. In addition, cyber incidents that impact the availability, reliability, speed, accuracy or other proper functioning of our critical information technology systems could have a significant impact on our operations, and potentially on our results. We may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber attacks. A significant cyber incident, including system failure, security breach, disruption by malware or other damage could interrupt or delay our operations, result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, damage our reputation, cause a loss of customers or give rise to monetary fines and other penalties, which could be significant. It is possible that insurance policies we have in place would not entirely protect us in the event that we experienced a cyber security incident, interruption or widespread failure of our information technology systems. Furthermore, we have not secured insurance coverage designed to specifically protect us from an economic loss resulting from such events. 52Table of ContentsSince we are dependent on key executives, the loss of any of these executives or our inability to retain other key personnel could adversely affect our business.Our success substantially depends upon our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and upon the ability of our senior management and other key employees to implement our business strategy. We believe there are only a limited number of available qualified executives in the business lines in which we compete. We rely substantially upon the services of our Chief Executive Officer. We believe we have been successful in attracting and retaining key personnel since our inception. The loss of any of their services or the services of other members of our management team or the inability to attract and retain other talented personnel could impede the further implementation of our business strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not currently maintain key man life insurance policies with respect to any of our employees.Our business could be adversely affected by Bermuda employment restrictions.We will need to continue to hire employees to work in Bermuda. Generally, under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians (other than spouses of Bermudians and individuals holding permanent resident certificates or working resident certificates) may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without the appropriate governmental standard work permit. Standard work permits can be obtained for a one-, two-, three-, four- or five-year period. Ten year permits are also available but these are generally only applicable where a company meets various criteria, including at least 10 Bermudian staff, development programs for Bermudians, entry level position and equal pay between Bermudans and non-Bermudians. Recent changes to the law now enable an employer to apply for an exemption from the requirement to hold a work permit in respect of its senior executives. Certain senior executives are also now eligible to apply for a permanent resident certificate. Where a standard work permit is being applied for, it is a requirement that the job must be advertised for three days (within an eight-day period) in a local Bermuda newspaper. All of our 24 Bermuda-based professional employees who require work permits have been granted permits by the Bermuda government. It is possible that we could lose the services of one or more of our key employees if we are unable to obtain or renew their work permits, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.CORPORATE RISKSThere are provisions in our charter documents that may reduce or increase the voting rights of our ordinary shares.The bye-laws of Endurance Holdings generally provide that any shareholder owning, directly, indirectly or, in the case of any U.S. person, by attribution, outstanding ordinary shares possessing more than 9.5% of the aggregate voting power of our ordinary shares will have their voting rights reduced so that they may not exercise more than 9.5% of the voting rights conferred by our ordinary shares. Under these provisions, certain shareholders may have their voting rights limited to less than one vote per share, while other shareholders may have voting rights in excess of one vote per share. Moreover, these provisions could have the effect of reducing the votes of certain shareholders who would not otherwise be subject to the 9.5% limitation by virtue of their direct share ownership. The bye-laws of Endurance Holdings provide that shareholders will be notified of their voting interests prior to any vote to be taken by the shareholders.As a result of any reallocation of votes, your voting rights might increase above 5% of the aggregate voting power of the outstanding ordinary shares, thereby possibly resulting in your becoming a reporting person subject to Schedule 13D or 13G filing requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). In addition, the reallocation of your votes could result in your becoming subject to filing requirements under Section 16 of the Exchange Act.We also have the authority to request information from any shareholder for the purpose of determining whether a shareholder’s voting rights are to be reallocated pursuant to the bye-laws. If a shareholder fails to respond to a request for information from us or submits incomplete or inaccurate information (after a reasonable cure period) in response to a request, we may, in our reasonable discretion, reduce or eliminate the shareholder’s voting rights.Provisions of Endurance Holdings’ bye-laws may restrict the ability to transfer shares of Endurance Holdings.Endurance Holdings’ Board of Directors may decline to register a transfer of any ordinary shares if the relevant instrument of transfer (if any) is in favor of five persons or more jointly or is not properly executed, the transferred shares are not fully paid shares or if the transferor fails to comply with all applicable laws and regulations governing the transfer.53Table of ContentsA shareholder may be required to sell its shares of Endurance.The bye-laws of Endurance Holdings provide that we have the option, but not the obligation, to require a shareholder to sell its ordinary shares for their fair market value to us, to other shareholders or to third parties if we determine, based on the written advice of legal counsel, that failure to exercise our option would result in non-de minimis adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequences to us or certain U.S. persons as to which the shares held by such shareholder constitute controlled shares. In the latter case, our right to require a shareholder to sell its ordinary shares to us will be limited to the purchase of a number of ordinary shares that will permit avoidance of those adverse tax consequences.A shareholder may be required to indemnify us for any tax liability that results from the acts of that shareholder.The bye-laws of Endurance Holdings provide certain protections against adverse tax consequences to us resulting from laws that apply to the shareholders of Endurance Holdings. If a shareholder’s death or non-payment of any tax or duty payable by the shareholder, or any other act or thing involving the shareholder, causes any adverse tax consequences to us (i) the shareholder (or his executor or administrator) is required to indemnify us against any tax liability that we incur as a result, (ii) we will have a lien on any dividends or any other distributions payable to the shareholder by us to the extent of the tax liability and (iii) if any amounts not covered by our lien on dividends and distributions are owed to us by the shareholder as a result of our tax liability, we have the right to refuse to register any transfer of the shareholder’s shares.There are regulatory limitations on the ownership and transfer of our ordinary shares.State laws in the United States and the United Kingdom require prior notices or regulatory agency approval of changes in control of an insurer or its holding company. The insurance laws of the domiciliary jurisdiction provide that no corporation or other person (except in certain jurisdictions an authorized insurer) may acquire control of a domestic insurance or reinsurance company unless it has given notice and obtained prior written approval of the appropriate regulatory agency. Any purchaser of 10% or more of our ordinary shares could become subject to such regulations and could be required to file certain notices and reports with the insurance commissioners of the domiciliary jurisdictions of our operating companies.U.S. persons who own our ordinary shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests than U.S. persons who are shareholders of a U.S. corporation.The Companies Act, which applies to Endurance Holdings and Endurance Bermuda, differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. These differences include the manner in which directors must disclose transactions in which they have an interest, the rights of shareholders to bring class action and derivative lawsuits and the scope of indemnification available to directors and officers.Anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws could impede an attempt to replace or remove our directors, which could diminish the value of our ordinary shares.Endurance Holdings’ bye-laws contain provisions that may make it more difficult for shareholders to replace directors even if the shareholders consider it beneficial to do so. In addition, these provisions could delay or prevent a change of control that a shareholder might consider favorable. Even in the absence of an attempt to effect a change in management or a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our ordinary shares if they are viewed as discouraging changes in management and takeover attempts in the future.It may be difficult to enforce service of process and enforcement of judgments against us and our officers and directors.Endurance Holdings is a Bermuda company and certain of its officers and directors are residents of jurisdictions outside the United States. A substantial portion of its assets and its officers and directors, at any one time, are or may be located in jurisdictions outside the United States. It may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States on our directors and officers who reside outside the United States or to enforce against us or our directors and officers judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws.There is no treaty in force between the United States and Bermuda providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. As a result, whether a United States judgment would be enforceable in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers depends on whether the U.S. court that entered the judgment is recognized by the Bermuda court as having jurisdiction over us or our directors and officers, as determined by reference to Bermuda conflict of law rules.In addition to and irrespective of jurisdictional issues, the Bermuda courts will not enforce a United States federal securities law that is either penal or contrary to Bermuda public policy. An action brought pursuant to a public or penal law, the purpose of which is the enforcement of a sanction, power or right at the instance of the state in its sovereign capacity, will not 54Table of Contentsbe entertained by a Bermuda court. Consequently, certain remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including certain remedies under U.S. federal securities laws, may not be available under Bermuda law or enforceable in a Bermuda court, as they may be contrary to Bermuda public policy. Further, no claim may be brought in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers in the first instance for violation of U.S. federal securities laws because these laws have no extraterritorial jurisdiction under Bermuda law and do not have force of law in Bermuda. A Bermuda court may, however, impose civil liability on us or our directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda law.TAXATION RISKSWe and our subsidiaries may be subject to U.S. tax which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Endurance Holdings and Endurance Bermuda are Bermuda companies and Endurance U.K. is an English company. Endurance Holdings, Endurance Bermuda and Endurance U.K. each intend to operate in such a manner that none of these companies will be deemed to be engaged in the conduct of a trade or business within the United States. Nevertheless, because definitive identification of activities which constitute being engaged in a trade or business in the United States is not provided by the Code, regulations or court decisions, the IRS might successfully contend that any of Endurance Holdings, Endurance Bermuda and/or Endurance U.K. are/is engaged in a trade or business in the United States. If Endurance Holdings, Endurance Bermuda and/or Endurance U.K. were/was engaged in a trade or business in the United States, and if Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda was to qualify for benefits under the applicable income tax treaty with the United States, but such trade or business was attributable to a “permanent establishment” in the United States (or in the case of Endurance Bermuda, with respect to investment income, arguably even if such income was not attributable to a “permanent establishment”), Endurance Holdings, Endurance U.K. and/or Endurance Bermuda would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates on the income that is effectively connected with the U.S. trade or business, plus an additional 30% “branch profits” tax in certain circumstances, in which case our financial condition and results of operations and your investment could be materially adversely affected.Holders of Endurance Holdings’ ordinary shares or Preferred Shares who own 10% or more of our voting power may be subject to taxation under the “controlled foreign corporation” (“CFC”) rules.Certain “10% U.S. Shareholders” of a foreign corporation that is considered a “controlled foreign corporation” (a “CFC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes must include in gross income such 10% U.S. shareholder’s pro rata share of the CFC’s “subpart F income,” even if the subpart F income is not distributed. See “Material Tax Considerations – Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations – United States Taxation of Holders of Ordinary Shares and Preferred Shares – Shareholders Who Are U.S. Persons –Classification of Endurance Holdings, Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda as a Controlled Foreign Corporation.” Due to the dispersion of Endurance Holdings’ share ownership among holders, its bye-law provisions that impose limitations on the concentration of voting power of its shares entitled to vote and authorize Endurance Holdings to purchase such shares under certain circumstances, and other factors, no U.S. Person that owns shares in Endurance Holdings directly or indirectly through foreign entities should be subject to treatment as a 10% U.S. Shareholder of a CFC. It is possible, however, that the IRS could challenge the effectiveness of these provisions and that a court could sustain such a challenge. Accordingly, investors should consult their tax advisors regarding the application of the CFC rules to an investment in Endurance Holdings.U.S. Persons who hold ordinary shares or Preferred Shares may be subject to U.S. income taxation on their pro rata share of our “related party insurance income” (“RPII”).The CFC rules apply to certain insurance and reinsurance companies that earn RPII. If the RPII rules were to apply to Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda, a U.S. Person who owns ordinary shares or Preferred Shares of Endurance Holdings directly or indirectly through foreign entities on the last day of the taxable year would be required to include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes the shareholder’s pro rata share of Endurance U.K.’s or Endurance Bermuda’s RPII for the entire taxable year, determined as if such RPII were distributed proportionately to such U.S. shareholders at that date regardless of whether such income is distributed. In addition, any RPII that is includible in the income of a U.S. tax-exempt organization would be treated as unrelated business taxable income. Although Endurance U.K. and Endurance Bermuda intend to generally operate in a manner so as to qualify for certain exceptions to the RPII rules, there can be no assurance that these exceptions will be available. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that U.S. Persons who own ordinary shares or Preferred Shares will not be required to recognize gross income inclusions attributable to RPII. See “Material Tax Considerations – Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations – United States Taxation of Holders of Ordinary Shares and Preferred Shares– Shareholders Who Are U.S. Persons – RPII Companies; RPII Exceptions.”55Table of ContentsThe RPII rules provide that if a shareholder who is a U.S. Person disposes of shares in a foreign insurance corporation that has RPII and in which U.S. Persons collectively own 25% or more of the shares, any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as ordinary income to the extent of the shareholder’s share of the corporation’s undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the shareholder owned the shares (whether or not such earnings and profits are attributable to RPII). In addition, such a shareholder will be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned by the shareholder. These rules should not apply to dispositions of ordinary shares or Preferred Shares because Endurance Holdings will not itself be directly engaged in the insurance business. The RPII provisions, however, have not been interpreted by the courts or the U.S. Treasury Department, and regulations interpreting the RPII provisions of the Code exist only in proposed form. Accordingly, the IRS might interpret the proposed regulations in a different manner and the applicable proposed regulations may be promulgated in final form in a manner that would cause these rules to apply to dispositions of our ordinary shares and Preferred Shares. See “Material Tax Considerations – Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations – United States Taxation of Holders of Ordinary Shares and Preferred Shares – Shareholders Who Are U.S. Persons – Disposition of Ordinary Shares and Preferred Shares; Uncertainty as to the Application of RPII.”U.S. Persons who hold ordinary shares or Preferred Shares will be subject to adverse tax consequences if we are considered a “passive foreign investment company” (a “PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes.We believe that we should not be considered a PFIC for U.S. federal income purposes for the year ended December 31, 2014. Moreover, we do not expect to conduct our activities in a manner that would cause us to become a PFIC in the future. However, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge this position or that a court will not sustain such challenge. Accordingly, it is possible that we could be deemed a PFIC by the IRS or a court for the 2014 year or any future year. If we were considered a PFIC, it could have material adverse tax consequences for an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation, including subjecting the investor to a greater tax liability than might otherwise apply or subjecting the investor to tax on amounts in advance of when tax would otherwise be imposed. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC provisions to an insurance company. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying these rules may be forthcoming. We cannot predict what impact, if any, such guidance would have on a shareholder that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation. See “Material Tax Considerations – Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations – United States Taxation of Holders of Ordinary Shares and Preferred Shares – Shareholders Who Are U.S. Persons – Passive Foreign Investment Companies.”Changes to U.S. Tax Legislation could have an adverse impact on us or our shareholdersThe U.S. Congress and President Obama have offered from time-to-time proposals intended to eliminate certain perceived tax advantages of companies (including insurance and reinsurance companies) that have legal domiciles outside the United States but have certain U.S. connections. President Obama's budget for fiscal year 2016 includes such proposals, including a proposal that would deny a U.S. non-life insurance company a deduction for certain non-taxed reinsurance premiums paid to affiliates. Members of Congress have introduced similar proposals in the past, as well as proposals that, under certain circumstances, would treat a foreign corporation that is primarily managed and controlled in the United States as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes and have introduced bills relating to tax-haven jurisdictions, cross-border transactions and intangible products. We cannot be certain if, when or in what form any such proposals may be enacted and whether such proposals, if enacted, would have retroactive effect. Enactment of some versions of prior proposed legislation as well as other changes in U.S. tax laws, regulations and interpretations of any tax law changes to address these issues could adversely affect the results of our operations and financial condition and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (“OECD”) and the European Union ("EU") are considering measures that might increase our taxes and reduce our net income.The OECD has published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. In the OECD’s periodic progress reports, Bermuda has not been listed as an uncooperative tax haven jurisdiction because it had previously committed to eliminate harmful tax practices and to embrace international tax standards for transparency, exchange of information and the elimination of any aspects of the regimes for financial and other services that attract business with no substantial domestic activity. Bermuda was reported as being largely compliant with the OECD’s international tax standards on transparency and exchange of information in the OECD's 2014 Tax Transparency Report on Progress. Other “largely compliant” jurisdictions include Germany, the United Kingdom and the United States. We are not able to predict what changes will arise from any proposals introduced in connection with the possible new OECD and EU measures or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes.56Table of ContentsThe United Kingdom Government has proposed legislation that could affect our United Kingdom operations.The United Kingdom Government has proposed that, with effect from April 1, 2015, a tax on “diverted profits” would be introduced in the United Kingdom. Details of the new tax remain subject to the finalization of the relevant legislation. According to the United Kingdom Government's publications, the proposed rules are intended to counteract “contrived arrangements” to divert profits from the United Kingdom by avoiding a taxable presence in the United Kingdom or by other contrived arrangements between connected entities. The new tax would be charged at a 25% rate on the amount of diverted profits relating to United Kingdom activity, thereby targeting foreign companies which are perceived as exploiting the United Kingdom's permanent establishment rules or creating other tax advantages by using transactions or entities that lack economic substance. Statements by the United Kingdom Government indicate that the legislation was not primarily focused on the insurance and reinsurance industries. As the proposals are currently drafted, however, it is not possible to provide a definitive view whether and, if so, to what extent our United Kingdom operations will be affected. A new draft of the legislation is expected shortly, including updated guidance, with a view to the new tax being passed into law during 2015. We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after March 31, 2035, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, of Bermuda, has given Endurance Holdings and Endurance Bermuda an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would “impose tax computed on profits or income or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition” any such tax will not be applicable to Endurance Holdings, Endurance Bermuda or any of their respective operations, shares, debentures or other obligations until March 31, 2035. It is possible that after March 31, 2035 we may be subject to Bermuda taxes.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsThe Company has no outstanding, unresolved comments from the SEC staff.