RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Company We are controlled by a single shareholder whose interests may be different from yours. The Goldfish Trust beneficially owns or controls 68.1% of all classes of our outstanding voting shares, which are directly owned by Montrovest BV (“Montrovest”), the former parent company of Iniziativa S.A. and Montrolux S.A. Until May 2007, 63.4% of our outstanding voting shares were directly owned by Iniziativa S.A. (“Iniziativa”). As of June 2007, 31.2% was directly owned by Montrolux S.A. (“Montrolux”). The trustee of the Goldfish Trust is Rohan Private Trust Company Limited (the “Trustee”). Dr. Lorenzo Rossi di Montelera, who is the Company’s Chairman of the Board, is a director of the Trustee, and a beneficiary of the Goldfish Trust. Under our amended charter, Montrovest, as holder of the Class B multiple voting shares, has the ability to control most actions requiring shareholder approval, including electing the members of our Board of Directors and the issuance of new equity. Dr. Rossi, in certain circumstances, may be delegated the authority from the Trustee to vote on shares held by Montrovest. The Trustee and Montrovest may have different interests than you have and may make decisions that do not correspond to your interests. In addition, the fact that we are controlled by one shareholder may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our management or voting control. 4 Table of Contents If we are unable to implement our business strategy, our net sales and profitability may be adversely affected. Our future financial performance and success are dependent on our ability to implement our business strategy successfully. Our present business strategy is to leverage our merchandising, marketing and sales expertise to increase net sales and profits, to design, make and introduce innovative new products, to utilize our manufacturing capabilities to improve gross margins, and to raise additional capital and make selective acquisitions to grow our revenue base. We may not successfully implement our business strategy. Furthermore, implementing our business strategy may not sustain or improve our results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected if our relationships with any primary vendors are terminated or if the delivery of their products are delayed or interrupted. We compete with other jewelry retailers for access to vendors that will provide us with the quality and quantity of merchandise necessary to operate our business, and our merchandising strategy depends upon our ability to maintain good relations with significant vendors. Certain brand name watch manufacturers, including Rolex, have distribution agreements with our subsidiary Mayors that, among other things, provide for specific sales locations, yearly renewal terms and early termination provisions at the manufacturer’s discretion. In fiscal 2008, merchandise supplied by Rolex and sold through our stores operating under the Mayors and Brinkhaus brands accounted for approximately 22% of our total net sales. Our relationships with primary suppliers, like Rolex, are generally not pursuant to long-term agreements. We obtain materials and manufactured items from third-party suppliers. Any delay or interruption in our suppliers’ abilities to provide us with necessary materials and components may affect our manufacturing capabilities or may require us to seek alternative supply sources. Any delay or interruption in receiving supplies could impair our ability to supply products to our stores and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The abrupt loss of any of our third-party suppliers, especially Rolex, or a decline in the quality or quantity of materials supplied by any third-party suppliers could cause significant disruption in our business. We are exposed to currency exchange risks that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. While we report financial results in U.S. dollars, a substantial portion of our sales are recorded in Canadian dollars. For our operations located in Canada, non-Canadian currency transactions and assets and liabilities subject us to foreign currency risk. Conversely, for the operations located in the U.S., non-U.S. currency transactions and assets and liabilities subject us to foreign currency risk. For purposes of financial reporting, our financial statements are reported in U.S. dollars by translating, where necessary, net sales and expenses from Canadian dollars at the average exchange rates prevailing during the period, while assets and liabilities are translated at year-end exchange rates, with the effect of such translation recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. As a result, for purposes of financial reporting, foreign exchange gains or losses recorded in earnings relate to non-Canadian dollar transactions of the operations located in Canada and non-U.S. dollar transactions of the operations located in the U.S. We expect to continue to report our financial results in U.S. dollars in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Consequently, our reported earnings could fluctuate materially as a result of foreign exchange translation gains or losses. To mitigate the impact of foreign exchange volatility on our earnings, from time to time we may enter into agreements to fix the exchange rate of U.S. dollars to Canadian dollars. For example, we may enter into agreements to fix the exchange rate to protect the principal and interest payments on our Canadian dollar denominated debt and other liabilities. If we do so, we will not benefit from any increase in the value of the Canadian dollar compared to the U.S. dollar when these payments become due. There were no contracts outstanding at the end of fiscal 2008. Fluctuations in the availability and prices of our raw materials and finished goods may adversely affect our results of operations. We offer a large selection of distinctive high quality merchandise, including diamond, gemstone and precious metal jewelry, rings, wedding bands, earrings, bracelets, necklaces, charms, timepieces and gifts. Accordingly, significant changes in the availability or prices of diamonds, gemstones, and precious metals we require for our products could adversely affect our earnings. Further, both the supply and price of diamonds are significantly influenced by a single entity, the Diamond Trading Corporation. We do not maintain long-term inventories or otherwise hedge a material portion of the price of raw materials. A significant increase in the price of these materials could adversely affect our net sales and gross margins. 5 Table of Contents A significant disruption at our jewelry manufacturing facilities could have a material adverse effect on our results. Our manufacturing facilities could be damaged or disrupted by, among other things, a natural disaster, war, terrorism, fire, or mechanical failure. Although we have obtained property damage and business interruption insurance, certain events could result in a prolonged interruption. Any significant disruption could cause significant delays. Similarly, unexpected downtime at our manufacturing facilities as a result of unanticipated equipment or system failures or scheduled maintenance may lead to production curtailments and leave us in short supply of certain products. In addition, our manufacturing processes are dependent on critical skilled workers. A loss of such workers without adequate replacements could result in material curtailment of production. Such shutdowns or curtailments may materially reduce production and impair our ability to supply our stores, which could adversely affect our productivity and results of operations. Hurricanes and other severe weather conditions could cause a disruption in our operations, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Our U.S. operations are located in Georgia and Florida, regions which are susceptible to hurricanes. In the past, hurricanes have forced the closure of some of our stores, resulting in a reduction in net sales during such periods. Future hurricanes could significantly disrupt our U.S. operations and could have a material adverse effect on our overall results of operations. In addition, severe weather such as ice storms, snow storms and blizzards in Canada can cause conditions whereby peak holiday shopping could be materially affected. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property and may be required to engage in costly litigation as a protective measure. To establish and protect our intellectual property rights, we rely upon a combination of trademark and trade secret laws, together with licenses, exclusivity agreements and other contractual covenants. In particular, the “Birks” and “Mayors” trademarks are of significant value to our retail operations. The measures we take to protect our intellectual property rights may prove inadequate to prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property. Monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, may result in counterclaims or other claims against us and could significantly harm our results of operations. We may not successfully manage our inventory, which could have an adverse effect on our net sales, profitability, cash flow and liquidity. As a retail business, our results of operations are dependent on our ability to manage our inventory. To properly manage our inventory, we must be able to accurately estimate customer demand and supply requirements and purchase new inventory accordingly. If we fail to sell the inventory we manufacture or purchase, we may be required to write-down our inventory or pay our vendors without new purchases creating additional vendor financing, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings and cash flows. Additionally, a portion of the merchandise we sell is carried on a consignment basis prior to sale or is otherwise financed by vendors, which reduces our required capital investment in inventory. Any significant change in these consignment or vendor financing relationships could have a material adverse effect on our net sales, cash flows and liquidity. The retail jewelry industry is highly competitive and we may not be able to grow or maintain our market share. The retail jewelry business is mature and highly competitive in the U.S. and Canada. We compete with foreign and domestic guild and leading luxury jewelers, specialty stores, national and regional jewelry chains, department stores, warehouse clubs and, to a lesser extent, catalog showrooms, discounters, direct mail suppliers, television home shopping networks and jewelry retailers who make sales through Internet sites. We believe that competition in our markets is based primarily on trust, quality craftsmanship, product design and exclusivity, product selection, service excellence, and, to a certain extent, price. Many of our competitors are substantially larger than us and have greater financial resources than we do. We may not be able to compete successfully with such competitors. Competition could cause us to lose customers, increase expenditures or reduce pricing, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flow and stock price. 6 Table of Contents As a luxury retail jeweler, our business is particularly susceptible to adverse economic conditions. Jewelry purchases are discretionary for consumers and may be particularly and disproportionately affected by adverse trends in the general economy and the equity markets. The success of our operations depends to a significant extent upon a number of factors relating to discretionary consumer spending within the economy as a whole and in regional and local markets where we operate, including economic conditions (and perceptions of such conditions) affecting disposable consumer income such as employment wages and salaries, the performance of the stock market and real estate market, business conditions, interest rates, availability and cost of credit and taxation. In addition, our stores operating under the Mayors brand are more dependent upon tourism, and many of our stores are dependent on the continued popularity of malls as a shopping destination and the ability of malls or tenants and other attractions to generate customer traffic for such stores. A substantial portion of our customers use credit, either from our proprietary credit cards or another consumer credit source, to purchase jewelry. When there is a downturn in the general economy or an increase in interest rates, fewer people may use credit. A downturn in the general economy could also adversely affect our ability to collect outstanding accounts receivable, and an increase in interest rates could result in reduced consumer spending, which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. We have significant indebtedness, which could adversely affect our operations, liquidity and financial condition. We currently have a significant amount of indebtedness and significant debt service obligations in proportion to our assets. Our debt levels fluctuate from time to time based on seasonal working capital needs. The following table sets forth our total indebtedness, total shareholders’ equity, total capitalization and ratio of total indebtedness to total capitalization as of March 29, 2008. Total indebtedness $ 147,429,000 Total shareholders’ equity 92,872,000 Total capitalization $ 240,301,000 Ratio of total indebtedness to total capitalization 61.4 % This high degree of leverage could adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash from operations to the payment of debt service, thereby reducing the availability of cash to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate purposes or acquisitions; • create additional risk to us and our shareholders if we were unable to renew our credit facility under similar terms and conditions; • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have a lower degree of leverage; and • negatively affect the price of our stock. We may need additional liquidity in order to meet our obligations. Due to our significant amount of indebtedness and significant debt service obligations in proportion to our assets, we may have difficulty obtaining additional sources of liquidity. Furthermore, if available, such sources may be costly or cause additional dilution to our shareholders. Our credit business may be adversely affected by changes in applicable laws and regulations. The operation of our credit business subjects us to substantial regulation relating to disclosure and other requirements upon origination, servicing, debt collection and particularly upon the amount of finance charges we can impose. Any adverse change in the regulation of consumer credit could adversely affect our earnings. For example, new laws or regulations could limit the amount of interest or fees we can charge on consumer loan accounts, or restrict our ability to collect on account balances, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. Compliance with existing and future laws or regulations could require material expenditures or otherwise adversely affect our business or financial results. Failure to comply with these laws or regulations, even if inadvertent, could result in negative publicity, and fines, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 7 Table of Contents We may not be able to retain key personnel or replace them if they leave. Our success is largely dependent on the personal efforts of Thomas A. Andruskevich, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and other key members of the senior management team. Although we have entered into employment agreements with Mr. Andruskevich and other key members of our senior management team, the loss of any of their services could cause our business to suffer. Our success is also dependent upon our ability to continue to hire and retain qualified financial, operations, development and other personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the retail industry is intense, and we may not be able to hire or retain the personnel necessary for our planned operations. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully negotiate favorable lease terms. As of March 29, 2008, we had 70 leased retail stores, which include the capital lease of our Canadian headquarters and Montreal flagship store. The leases are generally for a term of five to ten years, with rent being a fixed minimum base plus, for a majority of the stores, a percentage of the store’s sale volume (subject to some adjustments) over a specified threshold. We have generally been successful in negotiating leases for new stores and lease renewals as our current leases near expiration. However, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be adversely affected if we are unable to continue to negotiate favorable lease and renewal terms. Terrorist acts or other catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on Birks & Mayors. Terrorist acts, acts of war or hostility, natural disasters or other catastrophic events could have an immediate disproportionate impact on discretionary spending on luxury goods upon which our operations are dependent. For example, in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks carried out on September 11, 2001, tourism and business travel was significantly reduced in all of our markets, which had an adverse impact on our net sales. Similarly, the SARS epidemic in Toronto, Ontario in the spring of 2003 had an adverse impact on net sales in our stores in that region. Similar future events could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Risks Related to Class A Voting Shares Our share price could be adversely affected if a large number of Class A voting shares are offered for sale or sold. Future issuances or sales of a substantial number of our Class A voting shares by us, Montrovest, or another significant shareholder in the public market could adversely affect the price of our Class A voting shares, which may impair our ability to raise capital through future issuances of equity securities. As of May 31, 2008, we had approximately 3,609,010 Class A voting shares issued and outstanding. Sales of restricted securities in the public market, or the availability of these Class A voting shares for sale, could adversely affect the market price of Class A voting shares. As a retail jeweler with a limited public float, the price of our Class A voting shares may fluctuate substantially, which could negatively affect the value of our Class A voting shares and could result in securities class action claims against us. The price of our Class A voting shares may fluctuate substantially due to, among other things, the following factors: (1) fluctuations in the price of the shares of the small number of public companies in the retail jewelry business; (2) additions or departures of key personnel; (3) announcements of legal proceedings or regulatory matters; and (4) the general volatility in the stock market. The market price of our Class A voting shares could also fluctuate substantially if we fail to meet or exceed expectations for our financial results or if there is a change in financial estimates or securities analysts’ recommendations. Significant price and value fluctuations have occurred in the past with respect to the securities of retail jewelry and related companies. In addition, because the public float of our Class A voting shares is relatively small, the market price of our Class A voting shares is likely to be volatile. There is limited trading volume in our Class A voting shares, rendering them subject to significant price volatility. In addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that has affected the market prices of equity securities of many companies, and that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. A number of other factors, many of which are beyond our control, could also cause the market price of our Class A voting shares to fluctuate substantially. In the past, following periods of downward volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, class action litigation has often been pursued against the respective company. If our Class A voting shares were similarly volatile and similar litigation were pursued against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. 8 Table of Contents We are governed by the laws of Canada, and, as a result, it may not be possible for shareholders to enforce civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States. We are governed by the laws of Canada. A substantial portion of our assets are located outside the U.S. and some of our directors and officers are residents outside of the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service within the U.S. upon us or our directors and officers, or to realize in the U.S. upon judgments of courts of the U.S. predicated upon civil liability of Birks & Mayors and such directors or officers under the U.S. federal securities laws. There is doubt as to the enforceability in Canada by a court in original actions, or in actions to enforce judgments of U.S. courts, of the civil liabilities predicated upon U.S. federal securities laws. We expect to maintain our status as a “foreign private issuer” under the rules and regulations of the SEC and, thus, are exempt from a number of rules under the Exchange Act of 1934 and are permitted to file less information with the SEC than a company incorporated in the U.S. As a “foreign private issuer” we are exempt from rules under the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“the Exchange Act”) that impose certain disclosure and procedural requirements for proxy solicitations under Section 14 of the Exchange Act. In addition, our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and “short-swing” profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules under the Exchange Act with respect to their purchases and sales of our Class A voting shares. Moreover, we are not required to file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as U.S. companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act nor are we required to comply with Regulation FD, which restricts the selective disclosure of material information. Accordingly, there may be less publicly available information concerning us than there is for U.S. public companies. If we were treated as a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC, some holders of our Class A voting shares would be subject to additional taxation, which could cause the price of our Class A voting shares to decline. We believe that our Class A voting shares should not be treated as stock of a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and we expect to continue operations in such a manner that we will not be a PFIC. If, however, we are or become a PFIC, some holders of our Class A voting shares could be subject to additional U.S. federal income taxes on gains recognized with respect to our Class A voting shares and on certain distributions, plus an interest charge on certain taxes treated as having been deferred under the PFIC rules. Our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting may identify “material weaknesses” in the future and may result in an attestation with an adverse opinion from our independent auditors, which could reduce confidence in our financial statements and negatively affect the price of our securities. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. Beginning with our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending March 29, 2008, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to prepare a management report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our management may conclude that our internal control over our financial reporting is not effective. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, beginning with our Annual Report for our fiscal year ending March 28, 2009, our Annual Report must also contain a statement that our independent auditors have issued an attestation report on their assessment of such internal control. Our independent registered public accounting firm may issue an adverse report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or may issue a report that is qualified if it is not satisfied with our controls or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. If at any time in the future, we or our independent auditors are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, market perception of our financial condition and the trading price of our stock may be adversely affected and customer perception of our business may suffer, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. 9 Table of Contents 