Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors and all other information contained in this report should be considered carefully when evaluating us. These risk factors could affect our actual results. Other risks and uncertainties, in addition to those that are described below, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be affected materially and adversely. In that case, we may be unable to make distributions to our unitholders and the trading price of our common units could decline. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other detailed information concerning us set forth in our accompanying financial statements and notes and contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included herein. Risks Inherent In Our Business We may not have sufficient cash after the establishment of cash reserves and payment of our general partner’s fees and expenses to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution each quarter. We may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to pay the minimum quarterly distribution. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, we must pay our general partner’s fees and expenses and set aside any cash reserve amounts before making a distribution to our unitholders. The amount of cash we can distribute on our common units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the amount of natural gas transported in our gathering and transmission pipelines; • the level of our processing and treating operations; • the fees we charge and the margins we realize for our services; • the price of natural gas; 15 Table of Contents • the relationship between natural gas and NGL prices; and • our level of operating costs. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • the level of capital expenditures we make; • the cost of acquisitions, if any; • our debt service requirements; • fluctuations in our working capital needs; • restrictions on distributions contained in our bank credit facility; • our ability to make working capital borrowings under our bank credit facility to pay distributions; • prevailing economic conditions; and • the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner in its sole discretion for the proper conduct of our business. Because of these factors, we may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to pay the minimum quarterly distribution. Furthermore, you should also be aware that the amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves and working capital borrowings, and is not solely a function of profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income. Acquisitions typically increase our debt and subject us to other substantial risks, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our future financial performance will depend, in part, on our ability to make acquisitions of assets and businesses at attractive prices. From time to time, we will evaluate and seek to acquire assets or businesses that we believe complement our existing business and related assets. We may acquire assets or businesses that we plan to use in a manner materially different from their prior owner’s use. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including: • the inability to integrate the operations of recently acquired businesses or assets; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • the loss of customers or key employees from the acquired businesses; • a significant increase in our indebtedness; and • potential environmental or regulatory liabilities and title problems. Management’s assessment of these risks is necessarily inexact and may not reveal or resolve all existing or potential problems associated with an acquisition. Realization of any of these risks could adversely affect our operations and cash flows. If we consummate any future acquisition, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and you will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources. We continue to consider large acquisition candidates and transactions. The integration, financial and other risks discussed above will be amplified if the size of our future acquisitions increases. Our acquisition strategy is based, in part, on our expectation of ongoing divestitures of gas processing and transportation assets by large industry participants. A material decrease in such divestitures will limit our opportunities for future acquisitions and could adversely affect our growth plans. 16 Table of Contents We are vulnerable to operational, regulatory and other risks associated with our assets including, with respect to our south Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico, the effects of adverse weather conditions such as hurricanes, because we have a significant portion of our assets located in south Louisiana. Our operations and revenues will be significantly impacted by conditions in south Louisiana because we have a significant portion of our assets located in south Louisiana. This concentration of activity make us more vulnerable than many of our competitors to the risks associated with Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico, including: • adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms; • delays or decreases in production, the availability of equipment, facilities or services; and • changes in the regulatory environment. Because a significant portion of our operations could experience the same condition at the same time, these conditions could have a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other midstream companies who have operations in a more diversified geographic area. In addition, our operations in south Louisiana are dependent upon continued conventional and deep shelf drilling in the Gulf of Mexico. The deep shelf in the Gulf of Mexico is an area that has had limited historical drilling activity. This is due, in part, to its geological complexity and depth. Deep shelf development is more expensive and inherently more risky than conventional shelf drilling. A decline in the level of deep shelf drilling in the Gulf of Mexico could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our profitability is dependent upon prices and market demand for natural gas and NGLs, which are beyond our control and have been volatile. We are subject to significant risks due to fluctuations in commodity prices. These risks are based upon three components of our business: (1) we purchase certain volumes of natural gas at a price that is a percentage of a relevant index; (2) certain processing contracts for our Gregory system and our Plaquemine and Gibson processing plants expose us to natural gas and NGL commodity price risks; and (3) part of our fees from our Conroe and Seminole gas plants as well as those acquired in the El Paso acquisition are based on a portion of the NGLs produced, and, therefore, is subject to commodity price risks. The margins we realize from purchasing and selling a portion of the natural gas that we transport through our pipeline systems decrease in periods of low natural gas prices because our gross margins related to such purchases are based on a percentage of the index price. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007, we purchased approximately 5.9% and 4.3%, respectively, of our gas at a percentage of relevant index. Accordingly, a decline in the price of natural gas could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. A portion of our profitability is affected by the relationship between natural gas and NGL prices. For a component of our Gregory system and our Plaquemine plant and Gibson plant volumes, we purchase natural gas, process natural gas and extract NGLs, and then sell the processed natural gas and NGLs. A portion of our profits from the plants acquired in the El Paso acquisition is dependent on NGL prices and elections by us and the producers. In cases where we process gas for producers when they have the ability to decide whether to process their gas, we may elect to receive a processing fee or we may retain and sell the NGLs and keep the producer whole on its sale of natural gas. Since we extract energy content, which we measure in Btus, from the gas stream in the form of the liquids or consume it as fuel during processing, we reduce the Btu content of the natural gas. Accordingly, our margins under these arrangements can be negatively affected in periods in which the value of natural gas is high relative to the value of NGLs. In the past, the prices of natural gas and NGLs have been extremely volatile and we expect this volatility to continue. For example, in 2006, the NYMEX settlement price for natural gas for the prompt month contract ranged from a high of $11.43 per MMBtu to a low of $4.20 per MMBtu. In 2007, the same index ranged from $7.59 per MMBtu to $5.43 per MMBtu. A composite of the OPIS Mt. Belvieu monthly average liquids price based upon our average liquids composition in 2006 ranged from a high of approximately $1.20 per gallon to a low of approximately $0.90 per gallon. In 2007, the same composite ranged from approximately $1.58 per gallon to approximately $0.92 per gallon. As further discussed below in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 17 Table of Contents Condition and Results of Operations our processing facilities realized favorable processing margins during 2007, but due to this volatility in the prices of natural gas and NGLs, processing margins may be lower in future periods if NGL markets weaken. We may not be successful in balancing our purchases and sales. In addition, a producer could fail to deliver contracted volumes or deliver in excess of contracted volumes, or a consumer could purchase more or less than contracted volumes. Any of these actions could cause our purchases and sales not to be balanced. If our purchases and sales are not balanced, we will face increased exposure to commodity price risks and could have increased volatility in our operating income. The markets and prices for residue gas and NGLs depend upon factors beyond our control. These factors include demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs, which fluctuate with changes in market and economic conditions and other factors, including: • the impact of weather on the demand for oil and natural gas; • the level of domestic oil and natural gas production; • the level of domestic industrial and manufacturing activity; • the availability of imported oil and natural gas; • actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations; • the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems; • the availability and marketing of competitive fuels; • the impact of energy conservation efforts; and • the extent of governmental regulation and taxation. We must continually compete for natural gas supplies, and any decrease in our supplies of natural gas could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to maintain or increase the throughput on our systems by accessing new natural gas supplies to offset the natural decline in reserves, our business and financial results could be materially, adversely affected. In addition, our future growth will depend, in part, upon whether we can contract for additional supplies at a greater rate than the rate of natural decline in our currently connected supplies. In order to maintain or increase throughput levels in our natural gas gathering systems and asset utilization rates at our treating and processing plants, we must continually contract for new natural gas supplies. We may not be able to obtain additional contracts for natural gas supplies. The primary factors affecting our ability to connect new wells to our gathering facilities include our success in contracting for existing natural gas supplies that are not committed to other systems and the level of drilling activity near our gathering systems. Fluctuations in energy prices can greatly affect production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. Drilling activity generally decreases as oil and natural gas prices decrease. Tax policy changes could have a negative impact on drilling activity, reducing supplies of natural gas available to our systems. We have no control over producers and depend on them to maintain sufficient levels of drilling activity. A material decrease in natural gas production or in the level of drilling activity in our principal geographic areas for a prolonged period, as a result of depressed commodity prices or otherwise, likely would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. A substantial portion of our assets is connected to natural gas reserves that will decline over time, and the cash flows associated with those assets will decline accordingly. A substantial portion of our assets, including our gathering systems and our treating plants, is dedicated to certain natural gas reserves and wells for which the production will naturally decline over time. Accordingly, our cash flows associated with these assets will also decline. If we are unable to access new supplies of natural gas either 18 Table of Contents by connecting additional reserves to our existing assets or by constructing or acquiring new assets that have access to additional natural gas reserves, our cash flows may decline. Growing our business by constructing new pipelines and processing and treating facilities subjects us to construction risks, risks that natural gas supplies will not be available upon completion of the facilities and risks of construction delay and additional costs due to obtaining rights-of-way and complying with local ordinances. One of the ways we intend to grow our business is through the construction of additions to our existing gathering systems and construction of new pipelines and gathering, processing and treating facilities. The construction of pipelines and gathering, processing and treating facilities requires the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, which may exceed our expectations. Generally, we may have only limited natural gas supplies committed to these facilities prior to their construction. Moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which anticipated production growth does not materialize. We may also rely on estimates of proved reserves in our decision to construct new pipelines and facilities, which may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough natural gas to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we face the risks of construction delay and additional costs due to obtaining rights-of-way and local permits and complying with city ordinances, particularly as we expand our operations into more urban, populated areas such as the Barnett Shale. We have limited control over the development of certain assets because we are not the operator. As the owner of non-operating interests in the Seminole processing plant, we do not have the right to direct or control the operation of the plant. As a result, the success of the activities conducted at this plant, which is operated by a third party, may be affected by factors outside of our control. The failure of the third-party operator to make decisions, perform its services, discharge its obligations, deal with regulatory agencies or comply with laws, rules and regulations affecting this plant, including environmental laws and regulations, in a proper manner could result in material adverse consequences to our interest and adversely affect our results of operations. We expect to encounter significant competition in any new geographic areas into which we seek to expand and our ability to enter such markets may be limited. As we expand our operations into new geographic areas, we expect to encounter significant competition for natural gas supplies and markets. Competitors in these new markets will include companies larger than us, which have both lower capital costs and greater geographic coverage, as well as smaller companies, which have lower total cost structures. As a result, we may not be able to successfully develop acquired assets and markets located in new geographic areas and our results of operations could be adversely affected. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers and counterparties, and a general increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by our customers could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks of nonpayment and nonperformance by our customers are a major concern in our business. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. Any increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by our customers could adversely affect our results of operations. We may not be able to retain existing customers or acquire new customers, which would reduce our revenues and limit our future profitability. The renewal or replacement of existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including competition from other pipelines, and the price of, and demand for, natural gas in the markets we serve. For the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 53% of our sales of gas which were transported using our physical facilities were to industrial end-users and utilities. As a consequence of the increase in competition in 19 Table of Contents the industry and volatility of natural gas prices, end-users and utilities are reluctant to enter into long-term purchase contracts. Many end-users purchase natural gas from more than one natural gas company and have the ability to change providers at any time. Some of these end-users also have the ability to switch between gas and alternate fuels in response to relative price fluctuations in the market. Because there are numerous companies of greatly varying size and financial capacity that compete with us in the marketing of natural gas, we often compete in the end-user and utilities markets primarily on the basis of price. The inability of our management to renew or replace our current contracts as they expire and to respond appropriately to changing market conditions could have a negative effect on our profitability. We depend on certain key customers, and the loss of any of our key customers could adversely affect our financial results. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from contracts with key customers. To the extent that these and other customers may reduce volumes of natural gas purchased under existing contracts, we would be adversely affected unless we were able to make comparably profitable arrangements with other customers. Agreements with key customers provide for minimum volumes of natural gas that each customer must purchase until the expiration of the term of the applicable agreement, subject to certain force majeure provisions. Customers may default on their obligations to purchase the minimum volumes required under the applicable agreements. Our business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. Our operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the gathering, compressing, treating and processing of natural gas and storage of residue gas, including: • damage to pipelines, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, floods, fires and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism; • inadvertent damage from construction and farm equipment; • leaks of natural gas, NGLs and other hydrocarbons; and • fires and explosions. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage and may result in curtailment or suspension of our related operations. Our operations are concentrated in Texas, Louisiana and the Mississippi Gulf Coast, and a natural disaster or other hazard affecting this region could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are not fully insured against all risks incident to our business. In accordance with typical industry practice, we do not have any property insurance on any of our underground pipeline systems that would cover damage to the pipelines. We are not insured against all environmental accidents that might occur, other than those considered to be sudden and accidental. Our business interruption insurance covers only our Gregory processing plant. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, it could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. The threat of terrorist attacks has resulted in increased costs, and future war or risk of war may adversely impact our results of operations and our ability to raise capital. Terrorist attacks or the threat of terrorist attacks cause instability in the global financial markets and other industries, including the energy industry. Uncertainty surrounding retaliatory military strikes or a sustained military campaign may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities, including pipelines, production facilities, and transmission and distribution facilities, could be direct targets, or indirect casualties, of an act of terror. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism, the war in Iraq or future developments could also affect our ability to raise capital. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to the threat of terrorist attacks have made certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. Our insurance policies now generally exclude acts of terrorism. Such 20 Table of Contents insurance is not available at what we believe to be acceptable pricing levels. A lower level of economic activity could also result in a decline in energy consumption, which could adversely affect our revenues or restrict our future growth. Federal, state or local regulatory measures could adversely affect our business. While the FERC generally does not regulate our operations, it influences certain aspects of our business and the market for our products. The rates, terms and conditions of service under which we transport natural gas in our pipeline systems in interstate commerce are subject to FERC regulation under the Section 311 of the NGPA. Our intrastate natural gas pipeline operations generally are not subject to rate regulation by FERC, but they are subject to regulation by various agencies of the states in which they are located. Should FERC or any of these state agencies determine that our rates for Section 311 transportation service or intrastate transportation service should be lowered, our business could be adversely affected. Our natural gas gathering activities generally are exempt from FERC regulation under the NGA. However, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of substantial, on-going litigation, so the classification and regulation of our gathering facilities are subject to change based on future determinations by FERC and the courts. Natural gas gathering may receive greater regulatory scrutiny at both the state and federal levels since FERC has less extensively regulated the gathering activities of interstate pipeline transmission companies and a number of such companies have transferred gathering facilities to unregulated affiliates. Our gathering operations also may be or become subject to safety and operational regulations relating to the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of gathering facilities. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to these matters are considered or adopted from time to time. We cannot predict what effect, if any, such changes might have on our operations, but the industry could be required to incur additional capital expenditures and increased costs depending on future legislative and regulatory changes. Other state and local regulations also affect our business. We are subject to ratable take and common purchaser statutes in the states where we operate. Ratable take statutes generally require gatherers to take, without undue discrimination, natural gas production that may be tendered to the gatherer for handling. Similarly, common purchaser statutes generally require gatherers to purchase without undue discrimination as to source of supply or producer. These statutes have the effect of restricting our right as an owner of gathering facilities to decide with whom we contract to purchase or transport natural gas. Federal law leaves any economic regulation of natural gas gathering to the states, and some of the states in which we operate have adopted complaint-based or other limited economic regulation of natural gas gathering activities. States in which we operate that have adopted some form of complaint-based regulation, like Oklahoma and Texas, generally allow natural gas producers and shippers to file complaints with state regulators in an effort to resolve grievances relating to natural gas gathering access and rate discrimination. The states in which we conduct operations administer federal pipeline safety standards under the Pipeline Safety Act of 1968. The “rural gathering exemption” under the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968 presently exempts substantial portions of our gathering facilities from jurisdiction under that statute, including those portions located outside of cities, towns, or any area designated as residential or commercial, such as a subdivision or shopping center. The “rural gathering exemption,” however, may be restricted in the future, and it does not apply to our natural gas transmission pipelines. In response to recent pipeline accidents in other parts of the country, Congress and the Department of Transportation, or DOT, have passed or are considering heightened pipeline safety requirements. Compliance with pipeline integrity regulations issued by the United States Department of Transportation in December of 2003 or those issued by the TRRC could result in substantial expenditures for testing, repairs and replacement. TRRC regulations require periodic testing of all intrastate pipelines meeting certain size and location requirements. Our costs relating to compliance with the required testing under the TRRC regulations were approximately $1.2 million, $1.1 million and $0.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We expect the costs for compliance with TRRC and DOT regulations to be $8.9 million during 2008. If 21 Table of Contents our pipelines fail to meet the safety standards mandated by the TRRC or the DOT regulations, then we may be required to repair or replace sections of such pipelines, the cost of which cannot be estimated at this time. As our operations continue to expand into and around urban, populated areas, such as the Barnett Shale, we will have to comply with local ordinances and other restrictions imposed by cities and towns, such as noise ordinances and restrictions on facility locations and pressures. These requirements could result in increased costs and construction delays. Our business involves hazardous substances and may be adversely affected by environmental regulation. Many of the operations and activities of our gathering systems, plants and other facilities, including our south Louisiana processing assets, are subject to significant federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations impose obligations related to air emissions and discharge of pollutants from our facilities and the cleanup of hazardous substances and other wastes that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or locations to which we have sent wastes for treatment or disposal. Various governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with these regulations and the permits issued under them, and violators are subject to administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, injunctions or both. Strict, joint and several liability may be incurred under these laws and regulations for the remediation of contaminated areas. Private parties, including the owners of properties through which our gathering systems pass, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. There is inherent risk of the incurrence of significant environmental costs and liabilities in our business due to our handling of natural gas and other petroleum products, air emissions related to our operations, historical industry operations, waste disposal practices and the prior use of natural gas flow meters containing mercury. In addition, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. We may incur material environmental costs and liabilities. Furthermore, our insurance may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against us. Our business may be adversely affected by increased costs due to stricter pollution control requirements or liabilities resulting from non-compliance with required operating or other regulatory permits. New environmental regulations might adversely affect our products and activities, including processing, storage and transportation, as well as waste management and air emissions. Federal and state agencies could also impose additional safety requirements, any of which could affect our profitability. Our use of derivative financial instruments has in the past and could in the future result in financial losses or reduce our income. We use over-the-counter price and basis swaps with other natural gas merchants and financial institutions, interest rate swaps with financial institutions and futures and option contracts traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Use of these instruments is intended to reduce our exposure to short-term volatility in commodity prices and interest rates. We could incur financial losses or fail to recognize the full value of a market opportunity as a result of volatility in the market values of the underlying commodities or if one of our counterparties fails to perform under a contract. Due to our lack of asset diversification, adverse developments in our gathering, transmission, treating, processing and producer services businesses would materially impact our financial condition. We rely exclusively on the revenues generated from our gathering, transmission, treating, processing and producer services businesses, and as a result our financial condition depends upon prices of, and continued demand for, natural gas and NGLs. Due to our lack of asset diversification, an adverse development in one of these businesses would have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition and results of operations than if we maintained more diverse assets. 22 Table of Contents Our success depends on key members of our management, the loss or replacement of whom could disrupt our business operations. We depend on the continued employment and performance of the officers of the general partner of our general partner and key operational personnel. The general partner of our general partner has entered into employment agreements with each of its executive officers. If any of these officers or other key personnel resign or become unable to continue in their present roles and are not adequately replaced, our business operations could be materially adversely affected. We do not maintain any “key man” life insurance for any officers. Risk Inherent in an Investment in the Partnership Crosstex Energy, Inc. controls our general partner and owned a 36% limited partner interest in us as of December 31, 2007. Our general partner has conflicts of interest and limited fiduciary responsibilities, which may permit our general partner to favor its own interests. As of December 31, 2007, Crosstex Energy, Inc. indirectly owned an aggregate limited partner interest of approximately 36% in us. In addition, CEI owns and controls our general partner. Due to its control of our general partner and the size of its limited partner interest in us, CEI effectively controls all limited partnership decisions, including any decisions related to the removal of our general partner. Conflicts of interest may arise in the future between CEI and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and our partnership, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts our general partner may favor its own interests and those of its affiliates over our interests. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: Conflicts Relating to Control • our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s liability and reduces its fiduciary duties, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that might, without these limitations, constitute breaches of fiduciary duty by our general partner; • in resolving conflicts of interest, our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties in addition to unitholders, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duties to the unitholders; • our general partner’s affiliates may engage in limited competition with us; • our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates; • our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us; • in some instances our general partner may cause us to borrow funds from affiliates of the general partner or from third parties in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on our subordinated units or to make incentive distributions or hasten the expiration of the subordination period; and • our partnership agreement gives our general partner broad discretion in establishing financial reserves for the proper conduct of our business. These reserves also will affect the amount of cash available for distribution. Our general partner may establish reserves for distribution on our subordinated units, but only if those reserves will not prevent us from distributing the full minimum quarterly distribution, plus any arrearages, on the common units for the following four quarters. Conflicts Relating to Costs: • our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, issuance of additional limited partner interests and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for the payment of principal and interest on the notes; • our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; and 23 Table of Contents • our general partner is not restricted from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered on terms that are fair and reasonable to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf. Our unitholders have no right to elect our general partner or the directors of its general partner and have limited ability to remove our general partner. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business, and therefore limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders did not elect our general partner or the board of directors of its general partner and have no right to elect our general partner or the board of directors of its general partner on an annual or other continuing basis. Furthermore, if unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. The general partner generally may not be removed except upon the vote of the holders of 662/3% of the outstanding units voting together as a single class. Because affiliates of the general partner controlled approximately 37% of all the units as of December 31, 2007, the general partner could not be removed without the consent of the general partner and its affiliates. In addition, unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of the general partner’s general partner, cannot be voted on any matter. In addition, the partnership agreement contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. As a result of these provisions, it will be more difficult for a third party to acquire our partnership without first negotiating such a purchase with our general partner and, as a result, our unitholders are less likely to receive a takeover premium. Cost reimbursements due our general partner may be substantial and will reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Prior to making any distributions on the units, we reimburse our general partner and its affiliates, including officers and directors of our general partner, for all expenses they incur on our behalf. The reimbursement of expenses could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Our general partner has sole discretion to determine the amount of these expenses. The control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party, and that third party could replace our current management team. The general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in the partnership agreement on the ability of the owner of the general partner from transferring its ownership interest in the general partner to a third party. The new owner of the general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of the general partner with its own choices and to control the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers. Our general partner’s absolute discretion in determining the level of cash reserves may adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner to deduct from operating surplus cash reserves that in its reasonable discretion are necessary to fund our future operating expenditures. In addition, the partnership agreement permits our general partner to reduce available cash by establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, to comply with applicable law or agreements to which we are a party or to provide funds for future 24 Table of Contents distributions to partners. These cash reserves will affect the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary duty by our general partner. Our partnership agreement limits the liability and reduces the fiduciary duties of our general partner to our unitholders. The partnership agreement also restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that would otherwise constitute breaches of our general partner’s fiduciary duties. If you choose to purchase a common unit, you will be treated as having consented to the various actions contemplated in the partnership agreement and conflicts of interest that might otherwise be considered a breach of fiduciary duties under applicable state law. We may issue additional common units without our unitholders’ approval, which would dilute our unitholders’ ownership interests. We may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type without the approval of our unitholders. Our partnership agreement does not give our unitholders the right to approve our issuance of equity securities ranking junior to the common units at any time. The issuance of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require our unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, our unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may therefore not receive any return on their investment. Our unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. Our unitholders may not have limited liability if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. Our unitholders could be held liable for our obligations to the same extent as a general partner if a court determined that the right or the exercise of the right by our unitholders to remove or replace our general partner, to approve amendments to our partnership agreement, or to take other action under our partnership agreement constituted participation in the “control” of our business, to the extent that a person who has transacted business with the partnership reasonably believes, based on our unitholders’ conduct, that our unitholders are a general partner. Our general partner generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, such as its debts and environmental liabilities, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. In addition, Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act provides that a limited partner who receives a distribution and knew at the time of the distribution that the distribution was in violation of that section may be liable to the limited partnership for the amount of the distribution for a period of three years from the date of the distribution. The limitations on the liability of holders of 25 Table of Contents limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. Tax Risks to Our Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to entity level taxation by individual states. If the IRS treats us as a corporation or we become subject to entity level taxation for state tax purposes, it would substantially reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to you. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in us depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other matter affecting us. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay tax on our income at corporate rates of up to 35% (under the law as of the date of this report) and we would probably pay state income taxes as well. In addition, distributions to unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions and none of our income, gains, losses, or deductions would flow through to unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, the cash available for distribution to unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the unitholders and thus would likely result in a material reduction in the value of the common units. A change in current law or a change in our business could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. If any of these states were to impose a tax on us, the cash available for distribution to unitholders would be reduced. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state, or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts will be decreased to reflect the impact of that law on us. A successful IRS contest of the federal income tax positions we take may adversely impact the market for our common units and the costs of any contest will be borne by us and, therefore, indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner. We have not requested any ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from our counsel’s conclusions expressed in this prospectus or from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. A court may not agree with all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the prices at which our common units trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne by us and therefore indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner since such costs will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution by us. Unitholders may be required to pay taxes on income from us even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, they will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state, local, and foreign income taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they do not receive cash distributions from us. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions equal to their share of our taxable income or even the tax liability that results from that income. 26 Table of Contents Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be different than expected. Unitholders who sell common units will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions in excess of the total net taxable income allocated for a common unit, which decreased the tax basis in that common unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if the common unit is sold at a price greater than the tax basis in that common unit, even if the price received is less than the original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, will likely be ordinary income to the unitholder. Should the IRS successfully contest some positions we take, unitholders could recognize more gain on the sale of units than would be the case under those positions, without the benefit of decreased income in prior years. In addition, unitholders who sell units may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs) and non-U.S. persons, raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes, at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file federal income tax returns and generally pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a foreign person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our common units. We will determine the tax benefits that are available to an owner of units without regard to the units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we will take depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of the Treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to the tax returns of unitholders. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests within a 12-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated our partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a 12-month period. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, members of Congress are considering substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect certain publicly traded partnerships. Any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Specifically, federal income tax legislation has been proposed that would eliminate partnership tax treatment for certain publicly traded partnerships and recharacterize certain types of income received from partnerships. Although the currently proposed legislation would not appear to affect our tax treatment as a partnership, we are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. 27 Table of Contents As a result of investing in our common units, you will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing or withholding requirements in jurisdictions where you do not live. In addition to federal income taxes, you will likely be subject to other taxes such as state and local income taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property. You will likely be required to file state and local tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property and you may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We own property or conduct business in Texas, Oklahoma, Louisiana, New Mexico, Arkansas, Mississippi and Alabama. Oklahoma, Louisiana, New Mexico, Arkansas, Mississippi and Alabama impose an income tax, generally. Texas does not impose a state income tax on individuals, but does impose a franchise tax (to which we will be subject) on certain partnerships and other entities. We may do business or own property in other states or foreign countries in the future. It is our unitholders’ responsibility to file all federal, state, local, and foreign tax returns. Under the tax laws of some states where we will conduct business, we may be required to withhold a percentage from amounts to be distributed to a unitholder who is not a resident of that state. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the state, local, or foreign tax consequences of owning our common units. We will adopt certain methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and the unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. Because the determination of value and the allocation of value are factual matters, rather than legal matters, our counsel is unable to opine as to these matters. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and/or the allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations, and, accordingly, our counsel is unable to opine as to the validity of this method. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. 28 Table of Contents A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion regarding the treatment of a unitholder where common units are loaned to a short seller to cover a short sale of common units; therefore, unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We do not have any unresolved staff comments. 