Item 1A. Risk Factors Before investing in any of our securities, you should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risks could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition and cause the trading price of our securities to decline. You could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business Since we have a limited operating history, it is difficult to predict our future performance. Our Bermuda operating subsidiary, Endurance Bermuda, was formed on November 30, 2001 and began operations on December 17, 2001. Our other operating subsidiaries were formed or acquired after 2001. As a result, there is limited historical financial and operating information available to help you evaluate our past performance or to make a decision about an investment in our ordinary securities. Companies in their early stages of development present substantial business and financial risks and may suffer significant losses. Young companies must successfully develop business relationships, establish operating procedures, hire staff, install management information and other systems, establish facilities and obtain licenses, as well as take other steps necessary to conduct their intended business activities. As a result of these risks, it is possible that we may not successfully continue implementing our business strategy or successfully complete the development of the infrastructure necessary to run our business. In addition, because of our limited operating history, our historical financial results may not accurately predict our future performance. As a result of industry factors or factors specific to us, we may have to alter our anticipated methods of conducting our business, such as the nature, amount and types of risks we assume. Our losses related to Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma may be worse than we have estimated and may have a further material adverse impact on our financial results. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company’s results were adversely impacted by Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma (the ‘‘2005 Hurricanes’’). The Company’s estimated combined gross losses from these storms at December 31, 2005 totaled $855.9 million. Total losses from the 2005 Hurricanes, net of reinstatement premiums, other loss sensitive accruals, reinsurance recoveries and taxes, were $717.8 million. Current industry loss estimates indicate combined losses from the 2005 Hurricanes could reach over $80 billion. Our Hurricane Katrina, Rita and Wilma loss estimates are subject to a high level of uncertainty due to extremely complex and unique causation and coverage issues associated with these events, including the attribution of losses to wind or flood damage or other perils, potential legal and regulatory developments related to potential losses, as well as inflation in repair costs due to the limited availability of labor and materials due in part to the size and proximity in time and distance of the three hurricanes. We expect that these issues may be subject to litigation by state attorneys general and private parties and will not be resolved for a considerable period of time. As a result, both industry-wide insured losses and our losses from the 2005 Hurricanes may ultimately be materially greater or lesser than our estimated losses at December 31, 2005, and any additional losses could have a further material adverse impact on our financial results. If actual claims exceed our reserve for losses and loss expenses, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our success depends upon our ability to accurately assess the risks associated with the businesses that we insure or reinsure. We establish loss reserves to cover our estimated liability for the payment of all losses and loss expenses incurred with respect to premiums earned on the policies that we write. Loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Rather, loss reserves are estimates of what we expect the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost. These estimates are based upon actuarial and statistical projections and on our assessment of currently available data, as 19 well as estimates of future trends in claims severity and frequency, judicial theories of liability and other factors. Loss reserve estimates are refined continually in an ongoing process as experience develops and claims are reported and settled. Establishing an appropriate level of loss reserves is an inherently uncertain process. Moreover, these uncertainties are greater for companies like us than for those with a longer operating history because we do not yet have an established loss history. Because of this uncertainty, it is possible that our reserves at any given time will prove inadequate. To the extent we determine that actual losses and loss expenses exceed our expectations and reserves recorded in our financial statements, we will be required to immediately increase reserves. This could cause a material reduction in our profitability and capital. As a property and property catastrophe insurer and reinsurer, we are particularly vulnerable to losses from catastrophes. Our property and property catastrophe insurance and reinsurance operations expose us to claims arising out of catastrophes. Catastrophes can be caused by various unpredictable events, including earthquakes, hurricanes, hailstorms, severe winter weather, floods, fires, tornadoes, volcano eruptions, explosions and other natural or man-made disasters. We also face substantial exposure to losses resulting from acts of war, acts of terrorism and political instability. The global geographic distribution of our business subjects us to catastrophe exposure for natural events occurring in a number of areas throughout the world, including, but not limited to, windstorms in the United Kingdom and continental Europe, hurricanes in Florida, the Gulf Coast and the Atlantic coast regions of the United States, typhoons and earthquakes in Japan and earthquakes in California and the New Madrid region of the United States. The loss experience of property catastrophe insurers and reinsurers has generally been characterized as low frequency but high severity in nature. We expect that increases in the values and concentrations of insured property will increase the severity of such occurrences in the future. In the event that we experience catastrophe losses, there is a possibility that our unearned premium and loss reserves will be inadequate to cover these risks. In addition, because accounting regulations do not permit insurers and reinsurers to reserve for such catastrophic events until they occur, claims from catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to write new business also could be adversely impacted. See ‘‘Business — Underwriting and Risk Management.’’ As a property and casualty insurer and reinsurer, we could face losses from war, terrorism and political unrest. We may have substantial exposure to losses resulting from acts of war, acts of terrorism and political instability. These risks are inherently unpredictable, although recent events may lead to increased frequency and severity. It is difficult to predict their occurrence with statistical certainty or to estimate the amount of loss an occurrence will generate. Accordingly, it is possible that our loss reserves will be inadequate to cover these risks. We closely monitor the amount and types of coverage we provide for terrorism risk under insurance policies and reinsurance treaties. We often seek to exclude terrorism when we cannot reasonably evaluate the risk of loss or charge an appropriate premium for such risk. Even in cases where we have deliberately sought to exclude coverage, we may not be able to eliminate completely our exposure to terrorist acts, and thus it is possible that these acts will have a material adverse effect on us. The risks associated with property and casualty reinsurance underwriting could adversely affect us. Because we participate in property and casualty reinsurance markets, the success of our underwriting efforts depends, in part, upon the policies, procedures and expertise of the ceding companies making the original underwriting decisions. We face the risk that these ceding companies may fail to accurately assess the risks that they assume initially, which, in turn, may lead us to inaccurately assess the risks we assume. If we fail to establish and receive appropriate premium rates, we could face significant losses on these contracts. 20 If actual renewals of our existing contracts do not meet expectations, our premiums written in future years and our future results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our contracts are generally for a one-year term. In our financial forecasting process, we make assumptions about the renewal of our prior year’s contracts. If actual renewals do not meet expectations, our premiums written in future years and our future results of operations could be materially adversely affected. This risk is especially prevalent in the first quarter of each year when a large number of reinsurance contracts are subject to renewal. The failure of any of the loss limitation methods we employ could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or on our results of operations. We seek to limit our loss exposure by writing many of our insurance and reinsurance contracts on an excess of loss basis, adhering to maximum limitations on policies written in defined geographical zones, limiting program size for each client, establishing per risk and per occurrence limitations for each event and following prudent underwriting guidelines for each program written. In the case of proportional treaties, we seek per occurrence limitations or loss ratio caps to limit the impact of losses from any one event. Most of our direct liability insurance policies include maximum aggregate limitations. We also seek to limit our loss exposure through geographic diversification. Geographic zone limitations involve significant underwriting judgments, including the determination of the area of the zones and whether a policy falls within particular zone limits. Disputes relating to coverage and choice of legal forum may also arise. As a result, various provisions of our policies, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum, may not be enforceable in the manner we intend and some or all of our other loss limitation methods may prove to be ineffective. Underwriting is a matter of judgment, involving important assumptions about matters that are inherently unpredictable and beyond our control, and for which historical experience and probability analysis may not provide sufficient guidance. One or more future catastrophic or other events could result in claims that substantially exceed our expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our results of operations, possibly to the extent of eliminating our shareholders’ equity. If we choose to purchase reinsurance, we may be unable to do so and our net income could be reduced or we could incur a net loss in the event of an unusual loss experience. We have been generally less reliant on the purchase of reinsurance than many of our competitors, partially due to our strategic emphasis on underwriting analysis and portfolio diversification for risk management purposes. In 2005, we purchased minimal amounts of reinsurance protection; however, due to the development and expected growth of Endurance U.S. Insurance, we expect the amount of reinsurance protection to increase in future years. We consider purchasing reinsurance if it is deemed prudent from a risk mitigation perspective or if it is expected to have a favorable cost/benefit relationship relative to our retained risk portfolio. Changes in the availability and cost of reinsurance, which are subject to market conditions that are outside of our control, may reduce to some extent our ability to use reinsurance to balance exposures across our reinsurance or insurance operations. Because we have had a low level of reinsurance purchases, our net income could be reduced in the event of a large unreinsured event or adverse overall experience. We are also subject to credit risk with respect to our reinsurers because the transfer of risk to a reinsurer does not relieve us of our liability to our clients. In addition, reinsurers may be unwilling to pay us even though they are able to do so. The failure of one or more of the our reinsurers to honor their obligations to us in a timely fashion would impact our cash flow and reduce our net income and, depending upon the amount of reinsurance we have purchased, could cause us to incur a significant loss. Since we are dependent on key executives, the loss of any of these executives or our inability to retain other key personnel could adversely affect our business. Our success substantially depends upon our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and upon the ability of our senior management and other key employees to implement our business 21 strategy. We believe there are only a limited number of available qualified executives in the business lines in which we compete. We are not aware of any planned departures with the exception of James R. Kroner, our former Chief Financial Officer, who retired effective December 31, 2005 and Steven W. Carlsen, our Chief Operating Officer and Chairman of the Underwriting Committee, who will retire on June 1, 2006 and who has now been appointed to the Endurance Board of Directors, where he will sit on the Investment and Underwriting Committees. We rely substantially upon the services of Kenneth J. LeStrange, our Chief Executive Officer, President and Chairman of the Board of Directors, Michael J. McGuire, our Chief Financial Officer and David S. Cash, our Chief Underwriting Officer. Each of Messrs. LeStrange and Cash has an employment agreement with us. We believe we have been successful in attracting and retaining key personnel since our inception. The loss of any of their services or the services of other members of our management team or the inability to attract and retain other talented personnel could impede the further implementation of our business strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not currently maintain key man life insurance policies with respect to any of our employees. Our business could be adversely affected by Bermuda employment restrictions. We will need to continue to hire employees to work in Bermuda. Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians (other than spouses of Bermudians) may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without an appropriate governmental work permit. Work permits may be granted or extended by the Bermuda government upon showing that, after proper public advertisement in most cases, no Bermudian (or spouse of a Bermudian) is available who meets the minimum standard requirements for the advertised position. In 2001, the Bermuda government announced a new policy limiting the duration of work permits to six years, with certain exemptions for key employees. All of our 45 Bermuda-based professional employees who require work permits, including Messrs. LeStrange and McGuire, have been granted permits by the Bermuda government. The terms of these permits range from three to five years depending on the individual. The Bermuda government has not denied a work permit to any of our current Bermuda employees for whom we have applied. It is possible that we could lose the services of one or more of our key employees if we are unable to obtain or renew their work permits, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. A decline in the financial strength ratings of Endurance Bermuda, Endurance U.K., Endurance U.S. Reinsurance or Endurance U.S. Insurance could affect our standing among brokers and customers and cause our premiums and earnings to decrease. Ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance and reinsurance companies. As a result of the losses incurred by us due to Hurricane Katrina, on November 2, 2005, A.M. Best reduced the financial strength rating assigned to Endurance Holdings, Endurance Bermuda, Endurance U.K. and Endurance U.S. Reinsurance from ‘‘A’’ (Excellent) to ‘‘A−’’ (Excellent), with a stable outlook. Our new operating subsidiary Endurance U.S. Insurance, was assigned the same ‘‘A−’’ (Excellent) rating with a stable outlook. We currently maintain an S&P financial strength rating for Endurance Bermuda, Endurance U.K. and Endurance U.S. Reinsurance of ‘‘A−’’ (Strong), and during 2005, Endurance U.S. Insurance was assigned the same ‘‘A−’’ (Strong) rating with a positive outlook. If our ratings are reduced from their current level by A.M. Best or S&P, our competitive position in the insurance and reinsurance industry would suffer. Such a downgrade may have a material negative impact on our ability to expand our insurance and reinsurance portfolio and renew our existing insurance and reinsurance policies and agreements, require us to establish trusts or post letters of credit for ceding company clients, and could trigger provisions allowing some ceding company clients to terminate their reinsurance contracts with us on terms disadvantageous to us. In addition, a downgrade of our A.M. Best rating below ‘‘B++’’ (one level below our current rating) would constitute an event of default under our bank credit facility. Each of the effects of a downgrade of our financial strength rating described above could make it more expensive or otherwise difficult for us to compete in certain business segments in which we would otherwise desire to operate. If this 22 were to occur, we could suffer a material and adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations, and the market price for our securities, including any ordinary shares, could be materially and adversely affected. Our holding company structure and certain regulatory and other constraints affect our ability to pay dividends and make other payments. Endurance Holdings is a holding company and, as such, has no substantial operations of its own. Dividends and other permitted distributions from insurance subsidiaries are expected to be Endurance Holdings’ primary source of funds to meet ongoing cash requirements, including debt service payments and other expenses, and to pay dividends, if any, to shareholders. Bermuda law and regulations, including, but not limited to, Bermuda insurance regulations, restrict the declaration and payment of dividends and the making of distributions by Endurance Bermuda unless certain regulatory requirements are met. The inability of Endurance Bermuda to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable Endurance Holdings to meet its cash requirements at the holding company level could have a material adverse effect on its operations. In addition, Endurance U.K., Endurance U.S. Reinsurance and Endurance U.S. Insurance are subject to significant regulatory restrictions limiting their ability to declare and pay dividends. We therefore do not expect to receive dividends from these subsidiaries for the foreseeable future. Endurance Holdings is subject to Bermuda regulatory constraints that will affect its ability to pay dividends on its ordinary shares, class A shares and 7.75% Non-Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series A (the ‘‘Series A Preferred Shares’’), and make other payments. Under the Bermuda Companies Act 1981, as amended (the ‘‘Companies Act’’), Endurance Holdings may declare or pay a dividend or make a distribution out of retained earnings or contributed surplus only if it has reasonable grounds for believing that it is, or would after the payment be, able to pay its liabilities as they become due and if the realizable value of its assets would thereby not be less than the aggregate of its liabilities and issued share capital and share premium accounts. In addition, the terms of our credit facility prohibit Endurance Holdings from declaring or paying any dividends if a default or event of default has occurred and is continuing at the time of such declaration or payment or would result from such declaration or payment. In addition, the terms of the Series A Preferred Shares prohibit the declaration or payment of dividends on our ordinary shares unless dividends on the Series A Preferred Shares have been declared and paid. Preference shares, including the Series A Preferred Shares, may also not be redeemed if as a result of the redemption, our issued share capital would be reduced below the minimum capital specified in the memorandum of association of Endurance Holdings. For a discussion of the legal limitations on our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends to Endurance Holdings and of Endurance Holdings to pay dividends to its shareholders, see ‘‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.’’ The cost of reinsurance security arrangements may materially impact our margins. As a Bermuda reinsurer, Endurance Bermuda is required to post collateral security with respect to reinsurance liabilities it assumes from ceding insurers domiciled in the U.S. The posting of collateral security is generally required in order for U.S. ceding companies to obtain credit on their U.S. statutory financial statements with respect to reinsurance liabilities ceded to unlicensed or unaccredited reinsurers, such as Endurance Bermuda. Under applicable statutory provisions, the security arrangements may be in the form of letters of credit, reinsurance trusts maintained by third-party trustees or funds-withheld arrangements whereby the trusteed assets are held by the ceding company. Endurance Bermuda has the ability to issue up to $900 million in letters of credit under our letter of credit and revolving credit facility that expires on August 18, 2010. If this facility is not sufficient or if the Company is unable to renew this facility or is unable to arrange for other types of security on commercially acceptable terms, the ability of Endurance Bermuda to provide reinsurance to U.S.-based clients may be severely limited. Security arrangements may subject our assets to security interests and/or require that a portion of our assets be pledged to, or otherwise held by, third parties. Although the investment income derived 23 from our assets while held in trust typically accrues to our benefit, the investment of these assets is governed by the investment regulations of the state of domicile of the ceding insurer, which may be more restrictive than the investment regulations applicable to us under Bermuda law. The restrictions may result in lower investment yields on these assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. The right of certain of our founding shareholders to designate members of our Board of Directors may prevent or frustrate attempts by shareholders to replace or remove the current management of the Company. As of February 24, 2006, our remaining founding shareholders beneficially own ordinary shares aggregating approximately 25% of the equity interest in our ordinary shares on a fully diluted basis assuming the full exercise of all vested share options, restricted share units and warrants exercisable for ordinary shares or class A shares. Certain of our founding shareholders have contractual rights to nominate designees as candidates for election to our Board of Directors and select from our directors members of committees of our Board of Directors, and have so designated two of our existing eleven directors. As a result of their ownership position and contractual rights, our founding shareholders and their board representatives, independently and voting together with our other existing shareholders, will have the ability to significantly influence matters requiring shareholder approval, including, without limitation, the election of directors and amalgamations, consolidations and sales of all or substantially all of our assets. The commercial and investment activities of our significant investors may lead to conflicts of interest. Certain of our founding shareholders engage in commercial activities and enter into transactions or agreements with us or in competition with us, which may give rise to conflicts of interest. We derive a significant portion of our business through reinsurance relationships and other arrangements in which Aon, one of our founding shareholders, has acted as a broker or insurance or reinsurance intermediary. Although Aon sold the majority of its direct holdings of our ordinary shares in December 2004, due to Aon’s remaining investment in us and their involvement in our formation, it is possible that certain brokers and intermediaries that compete with Aon will perceive a conflict of interest in our relationships with Aon and may, therefore, be hesitant to present insurance and reinsurance proposals and opportunities to us. Some of our founding shareholders and their affiliates have sponsored, and may in the future sponsor, other entities engaged in or intending to engage in insurance and reinsurance underwriting, some of which, together with our significant investors, may compete with us. Certain of our founding shareholders and their affiliates have also entered into agreements with and made investments in numerous companies that may compete with us. Profitability may be adversely impacted by inflation. The effects of inflation could cause the cost of claims from catastrophes or other events to rise in the future. Our reserve for losses and loss expenses includes assumptions about future payments for settlement of claims and claims handling expenses, such as medical treatments and litigation costs. To the extent inflation causes these costs to increase above reserves established for these claims, we will be required to increase our loss reserves with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is identified. Our investment performance may affect our financial assets and ability to conduct business. We derive a significant portion of our income from our invested assets. As a result, our operating results depend in part on the performance of our investment portfolio, which consists primarily of fixed maturity securities. Our income derived from our invested assets (including net realized losses) was $172.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. Our operating results are subject to a 24 variety of investment risks, including risks relating to general economic conditions, market volatility, interest rate fluctuations, liquidity risk and credit and default risk. In addition, we are subject to pre-payment or reinvestment risk as well as restrictions on redemptions or sale of certain of our investments. With respect to our longer-term liabilities, we strive to structure our investments in a manner that recognizes our liquidity needs for our future liabilities. In that regard, we attempt to correlate the maturity and duration of our investment portfolio to our general and specific liability profile. However, if our liquidity needs or general and specific liability profile unexpectedly change, we may not be successful in continuing to structure our investment portfolio in that manner. The market value of our fixed maturity investments will be subject to fluctuations depending on changes in various factors, including prevailing interest rates. To the extent that we are unsuccessful in correlating our investment portfolio with our liabilities, we may be forced to liquidate our investments at times and prices that are not optimal, which could have a material adverse effect on the performance of our investment portfolio. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Although we take measures to attempt to manage the risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to mitigate interest rate sensitivity effectively. Our mitigation efforts include maintaining a high quality portfolio with a relatively short duration to reduce the effect of interest rate changes on book value. A significant portion of the investment portfolio matures each year, allowing for reinvestment at current market rates. The portfolio is actively managed, and trades are made to balance our exposure to interest rates. However, a significant increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our book value. We may be adversely affected by foreign currency fluctuations. We have made a significant investment in the capitalization of Endurance U.K., which is denominated in British Sterling. In addition, we enter into reinsurance and insurance contracts where we are obligated to pay losses in currencies other than U.S. dollars. For the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 21.3% of our gross premiums before deposit accounting adjustments were written in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. A portion of our cash and cash equivalents, investments and loss reserves are also denominated in non-U.S. currencies. The majority of our operating foreign currency assets and liabilities are denominated in Euros, British Sterling, Canadian Dollars, Japanese Yen and Australian Dollars (‘‘Major Currencies’’). We may, from time to time, experience losses from fluctuations in the values of these and other non-U.S. currencies, which could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. We periodically buy and sell Major Currencies or investment securities denominated in Major Currencies in an attempt to match our non-U.S. dollar assets to our related non-U.S. dollar liabilities. We have no currency hedges in place; however, as part of our matching strategy, we consider the use of hedges when we become aware of probable significant losses that will be paid in non-U.S. currencies. However, it is possible that we will not successfully match our exposures or structure the hedges so as to effectively manage these risks. We may require additional capital in the future which may not be available or only available on unfavorable terms. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business successfully, to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses, and to maintain our current rating agency ratings. We may need to raise additional funds through financings or curtail our growth and reduce our assets. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our shareholders could result, and in any case such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our already outstanding securities. If we cannot obtain adequate capital, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 25 Since we depend on a few brokers for a large portion of our revenues, loss of business provided by any one of them could adversely affect us. We market our insurance and reinsurance worldwide primarily through insurance and reinsurance brokers. In the year ended December 31, 2005, our top four brokers represented approximately 74.2% of our gross premiums written before deposit accounting adjustments. See ‘‘Business — Distribution.’’ One of those brokers, Aon, is currently one of our investors. Affiliates of two of our major brokers, Marsh and Benfield, have also co-sponsored the formation of other Bermuda reinsurers that compete with us, and these brokers may decide to favor the reinsurers they sponsored over other companies. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided by one or more of these brokers could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our reliance on brokers subjects us to their credit risk. In accordance with industry practice, we frequently pay amounts owed on claims under our insurance or reinsurance contracts to brokers, and these brokers, in turn, pay these amounts over to the clients that have purchased insurance or reinsurance from us. If a broker fails to make such a payment, in a significant majority of business that we write, it is highly likely that we will be liable to the client for the deficiency because of local laws or contractual obligations. Likewise, when the client pays premiums for these policies to brokers for payment over to us, these premiums are considered to have been paid and, in most cases, the client will no longer be liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we have actually received the premiums. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with brokers around the world with respect to most of our insurance and reinsurance business. To date we have not experienced any losses related to such credit risks. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance or reinsurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. Recent examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include: • larger settlements and jury awards for professionals and corporate directors and officers covered by professional liability and directors’ and officers’ liability insurance; • a growing trend of plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers in purported class action litigations relating to claims-handling, insurance sales practices and other practices related to the conduct of our business; and • increased litigation and regulatory involvement in the claims settlement process from claims arising from the 2005 Hurricanes. The effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could harm our business. Current legal and regulatory activities relating to insurance brokers and agents, contingent commissions and certain finite-risk insurance products could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Contingent commission arrangements and finite-risk reinsurance have become the focus of investigations by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and numerous U.S. Attorney’s Offices and state Attorneys General. Contingent commission arrangements are the payment by insurers to brokers of additional sums in connection with the placement of business by brokers with those insurers. Finite-risk reinsurance has been defined as a form of reinsurance in which, among other 26 things, the time value of money is considered in the product’s design and pricing, and there is less risk transfer to the insurer or reinsurer in return for less premium being paid. At this time, we are unable to predict the potential effects, if any, that these investigations and inquiries may have upon the insurance industry or what changes, if any, may be made to laws and regulations regarding the insurance industry. Any of the foregoing could, either directly or indirectly, have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Consistent with long-standing and wide-spread industry practice, in the past we have entered into incentive commission agreements; however, we have ceased entering into these agreements. Since we assume a degree of credit risk associated with brokers with respect to most of our insurance and reinsurance business, our results of operations could be adversely affected in the event that the credit quality of Marsh, Aon or our other brokers is severely impacted by the current investigations or changes to current contingent commission practices. On January 5, 2005, Endurance U.S. Reinsurance received a subpoena from the New York Attorney General requesting documents in connection with the investigation into contingent commission agreements. Among other things, the subpoena sought documents concerning efforts by any insurance broker to exclude or limit an insurance company's access to the insurance market and documents concerning efforts or requests by any insurance broker to manipulate bids or price quotes, or submit false or inflated bids or price quotes in insurance markets. The Company provided the New York Attorney General with an initial set of documents responsive to the subpoena on January 21, 2005. While we are unable to predict the ultimate impact of the receipt of the subpoena from the New York Attorney General, the possible receipt of fines and penalties or consequent rating agency actions, if any, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We operate in a highly competitive environment which could adversely impact our operating margins. The insurance and reinsurance industries are highly competitive. We compete with major U.S. and non-U.S. insurers and reinsurers, including other Bermuda-based insurers and reinsurers. For information regarding competition in each of our business segments, see ‘‘Business — Business Segments.’’ Many of our competitors have greater financial, marketing and management resources. A number of newly-organized, Bermuda-based insurance and reinsurance entities compete in the same market segments in which we operate. In addition, we may not be aware of other companies that may be planning to enter the segments of the insurance and reinsurance market in which we operate or of existing companies that may be planning to raise additional capital. Increasing competition could result in fewer submissions, lower premium rates and less favorable policy terms and conditions, which could have a material adverse impact on our growth and profitability. Further, insurance/risk-linked securities and derivative and other non-traditional risk transfer mechanisms and vehicles are being developed and offered by other parties, including non-insurance company entities, which could impact the demand for traditional insurance or reinsurance. A number of new, proposed or potential industry or legislative developments could further increase competition in our industry. These developments include: • capital initiatives undertaken by several of our competitors as a result of the 2005 Hurricanes’ impact on the industry; • the formation of several new reinsurance companies since September 2005, each capitalized in excess of $500 million, that will likely compete in the same markets as we do; • legislative mandates for insurers to provide certain types of coverage in areas where we or our ceding clients do business, such as the mandated terrorism coverage in the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, could eliminate the opportunities for us to write those coverages; and • programs in which state-sponsored entities provide property insurance in catastrophe prone areas or other ‘‘alternative markets’’ types of coverage could eliminate the opportunities for us to write those coverages. 27 In addition, insurance companies that merge may be able to enhance their negotiating position when buying reinsurance and may be able to spread their risks across a consolidated, larger capital base so that they require less reinsurance. New competition from these developments could cause the demand for insurance or reinsurance to fall or the expense of customer acquisition and retention to increase, either of which could have a material adverse affect on our growth and profitability. The historical cyclicality of the property and casualty reinsurance industry may cause fluctuations in our results. Historically, property and casualty reinsurers have experienced significant fluctuations in operating results due to competition, frequency of occurrence or severity of catastrophic events, levels of capacity, general economic conditions and other factors. Demand for reinsurance is influenced significantly by underwriting results of primary property and casualty insurers and prevailing general economic conditions. The supply of reinsurance is related to prevailing prices, the levels of insured losses and the levels of industry surplus which, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments being earned in the reinsurance industry. As a result, the reinsurance business historically has been a cyclical industry characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted favorable premium levels. Although rates for many products have generally increased since our formation, and remain above our benchmark rates, the supply of reinsurance may increase, either by capital provided by new entrants or by the commitment of additional capital by existing reinsurers, which may cause prices to decrease. We are beginning to see more competition across many of the lines of business in which we participate. Any of these factors could lead to a significant reduction in premium rates, less favorable policy terms and conditions and fewer submissions for our underwriting services. In addition to these considerations, changes in the frequency and severity of losses suffered by insurers may affect the cycles of the reinsurance business significantly, and we expect to experience the effects of such cyclicality. Acquisitions or strategic investments that we made or may make could turn out to be unsuccessful. As part of our strategy, we have pursued and may continue to pursue growth through acquisitions and/or strategic investments in new businesses. The negotiation of potential acquisitions or strategic investments as well as the integration of an acquired business or new personnel could result in a substantial diversion of management resources. Acquisitions could involve numerous additional risks such as potential losses from unanticipated litigation or levels of claims and inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs. Our ability to manage our growth through acquisitions or strategic investments will depend, in part, on our success in addressing these risks. Any failure by us to effectively implement our acquisitions or strategic investment strategies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The regulatory system under which we operate, and potential changes thereto, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations or accreditations, or may be able to do so only at great cost. In addition, we may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, the wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance or reinsurance companies or holding companies. Failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate exemptions under any applicable laws could result in restrictions on our ability to do business in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate and fines and other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. See ‘‘Regulatory Matters.’’ 28 Risks Related to Taxation We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after March 28, 2016, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, of Bermuda, has given Endurance Holdings and Endurance Bermuda an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would ‘‘impose tax computed on profits or income or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition’’ of any such tax will not be applicable to Endurance Holdings, Endurance Bermuda or any of their respective operations, shares, debentures or other obligations until March 28, 2016. Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance’s assurance, however, it is possible that after March 28, 2016 we may be subject to Bermuda taxes. We and our subsidiaries may be subject to U.S. tax which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Endurance Holdings and Endurance Bermuda are Bermuda companies and Endurance U.K. is an English company. Endurance Holdings, Endurance Bermuda and Endurance U.K. each intends to operate in such a manner that none of these companies will be deemed to be engaged in the conduct of a trade or business within the United States. Nevertheless, because definitive identification of activities which constitute being engaged in a trade or business in the United States is not provided by the Code, or regulations or court decisions, the Internal Revenue Service (‘‘IRS’’), might contend that any of Endurance Holdings, Endurance Bermuda and/or Endurance U.K. are/is engaged in a trade or business in the United States. If Endurance Holdings, Endurance Bermuda and/or Endurance U.K. were engaged in a trade or business in the United States, and if Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda were to qualify for benefits under the applicable income tax treaty with the United States, but such trade or business were attributable to a ‘‘permanent establishment’’ in the United States (or in the case of Endurance Bermuda, with respect to investment income, arguably even if such income were not attributable to a ‘‘permanent establishment’’), Endurance Holdings, Endurance U.K. and/or Endurance Bermuda would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates on the income that is effectively connected with the U.S. trade or business, plus an additional 30% ‘‘branch profits’’ tax in certain circumstances, in which case our financial condition and results of operations and your investment could be materially adversely affected. Holders of Endurance Holdings’ ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares who own 10% or more of our voting power may be subject to taxation under the ‘‘controlled foreign corporation’’ (‘‘CFC’’) rules. Certain ‘‘10% U.S. Shareholders’’ of a foreign corporation that is considered a ‘‘controlled foreign corporation’’ (a ‘‘CFC’’) for U.S. federal income tax purposes must include in gross income such 10% U.S. shareholder’s pro rata share of the CFC’s ‘‘subpart F income,’’ even if the subpart F income is not distributed. See ‘‘Material Tax Considerations — Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations — United States Taxation of Holders of Ordinary Share — Shareholders Who Are U.S. Persons — Classification of Endurance Holdings, Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda as a Controlled Foreign Corporation.’’ Due to the dispersion of Endurance Holdings’ share ownership among holders, its bye-law provisions that impose limitations on the concentration of voting power of its shares entitled to vote and authorize Endurance Holdings to purchase such shares under certain circumstances, and other factors, no U.S. Person that owns shares in Endurance Holdings directly or indirectly through foreign entities should be subject to treatment as a 10% U.S. Shareholder of a CFC. It is possible, however, that the IRS could challenge the effectiveness of these provisions and that a court could sustain such a challenge. Accordingly, investors should consult their tax advisors regarding the application of the CFC rules to an investment in Endurance Holdings. U.S. Persons who hold ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares may be subject to U.S. income taxation on their pro rata share of our ‘‘related party insurance income’’ (‘‘RPII’’). The CFC rules apply to certain insurance and reinsurance companies that earn RPII. If the RPII rules were to apply to Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda, a U.S. Person who owns ordinary 29 shares or Series A Preferred Shares of Endurance Holdings directly or indirectly through foreign entities on the last day of the taxable year would be required to include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes the shareholder’s pro rata share of Endurance U.K.’s or Endurance Bermuda’s RPII for the entire taxable year, determined as if such RPII were distributed proportionately to such U.S. shareholders at that date regardless of whether such income is distributed. In addition, any RPII that is includible in the income of a U.S. tax-exempt organization would be treated as unrelated business taxable income. Although Endurance U.K. and Endurance Bermuda intend to generally operate in a manner so as to qualify for certain exceptions to the RPII rules, there can be no assurance that these exceptions will be available. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that U.S. Persons who own ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares will not be required to recognize gross income inclusions attributable to RPII. See ‘‘Material Tax Considerations — Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations — United States Taxation of Holders of Ordinary Shares and Series A Preferred Shares — Shareholders Who Are U.S. Persons — RPII Companies; RPII Exceptions.’’ The RPII rules provide that if a shareholder who is a U.S. Person disposes of shares in a foreign insurance corporation that has RPII and in which U.S. Persons collectively own 25% or more of the shares, any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as ordinary income to the extent of the shareholder’s share of the corporation’s undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the shareholder owned the shares (whether or not such earnings and profits are attributable to RPII). In addition, such a shareholder will be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned by the shareholder. These rules should not apply to dispositions of ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares because Endurance Holdings will not itself be directly engaged in the insurance business. The RPII provisions, however, have not been interpreted by the courts or the U.S. Treasury Department, and regulations interpreting the RPII provisions of the Code exist only in proposed form. Accordingly, the IRS might interpret the proposed regulations in a different manner and the applicable proposed regulations may be promulgated in final form in a manner that would cause these rules to apply to dispositions of our ordinary shares and Series A Preferred Shares. See ‘‘Material Tax Considerations — Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations — United States Taxation of Holders of Ordinary Shares and Series A Preferred Shares — Shareholders Who Are U.S. Persons — Disposition of Ordinary Shares and Series A Preferred Shares; Uncertainty as to the Application of RPII.’’ U.S. Persons who hold ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares will be subject to adverse tax consequences if we are considered a ‘‘passive foreign investment company’’ (a ‘‘PFIC’’) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We believe that we should not be considered a PFIC for U.S. federal income purposes for the year ended December 31, 2005. Moreover, we do not expect to conduct our activities in a manner that would cause us to become a PFIC in the future. However, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge this position or that a court will not sustain such challenge. Accordingly, it is possible that we could be deemed a PFIC by the IRS or a court for the 2005 year or any future year. If we were considered a PFIC it could have material adverse tax consequences for an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation, including subjecting the investor to a greater tax liability than might otherwise apply or subjecting the investor to tax on amounts in advance of when tax would otherwise be imposed. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC provisions to an insurance company. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying these rules may be forthcoming. We cannot predict what impact, if any, such guidance would have on a shareholder that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation. See ‘‘Material Tax Considerations — Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations — United States Taxation of Holders of Ordinary Shares and Series A Preferred Shares — Shareholders Who Are U.S. Persons — Passive Foreign Investment Companies.’’ 30 U.S. Persons who hold ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares will be subject to adverse tax consequences if we or any of our subsidiaries are considered a ‘‘foreign personal holding company’’ (‘‘FPHC’’) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Endurance Holdings and/or any of its non-U.S. subsidiaries could be considered to be a FPHC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This status will depend on whether more than 50% of our shares could be deemed to be owned by five or fewer individuals who are citizens or residents of the United States, and the percentage of our income, or that of our subsidiaries, that consists of ‘‘foreign personal holding company income,’’ as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We believe, based upon information made available to us regarding our existing shareholder base, that neither we nor any of our subsidiaries are a FPHC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Due to the lack of complete information regarding our ultimate share ownership, however, we cannot be certain that we will not be considered a FPHC. If we were considered a FPHC it could have material adverse tax consequences for an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation including subjecting the investor to a greater tax liability than might otherwise apply and subjecting the investor to tax on amounts in advance of when tax would otherwise be imposed. The FPHC rules have been repealed for tax years of foreign corporations beginning after December 31, 2004 and for tax years of such U.S. shareholders with or within which such tax years of the foreign corporation ends. 31 REGULATORY MATTERS General The business of insurance and reinsurance is regulated in most countries, although the degree and type of regulation varies significantly from one jurisdiction to another. Reinsurers are generally subject to less direct regulation than primary insurers. Bermuda The Insurance Act 1978 of Bermuda and related regulations, as amended (the ‘‘Insurance Act’’), regulates the insurance business of Endurance Bermuda and provides that no person may carry on any insurance business in or from within Bermuda unless registered as an insurer by the BMA under the Insurance Act. Endurance Bermuda is a registered as a Class 4 insurer by the BMA; however, as a holding company, Endurance Holdings is not subject to Bermuda insurance regulations. Insurance as well as reinsurance is regulated under the Insurance Act. The BMA, in deciding whether to grant registration, has broad discretion to act as it thinks fit in the public interest. The BMA is required by the Insurance Act to determine whether the applicant is a fit and proper body to be engaged in the insurance business and, in particular, whether it has, or has available to it, adequate knowledge and expertise to operate an insurance business. The continued registration of an applicant as an insurer is subject to it complying with the terms of its registration and such other conditions as the BMA may impose from time to time. An Insurance Advisory Committee appointed by the Bermuda Minister of Finance (the ‘‘Minister’’) advises the BMA on matters connected with the discharge of the BMA’s functions. Sub-committees of the Insurance Advisory Committee supervise and review the law and practice of insurance in Bermuda, including reviews of accounting and administrative procedures. The day-to-day supervision of insurers is the responsibility of the BMA. The Insurance Act also imposes on Bermuda insurance companies solvency and liquidity standards and auditing and reporting requirements and grants the BMA powers to supervise, investigate, require information and the production of documents and intervene in the affairs of insurance companies. Certain significant aspects of the Bermuda insurance regulatory framework are set forth below. Classification of Insurers The Insurance Act distinguishes between insurers carrying on long-term business and insurers carrying on general business. There are four classifications of insurers carrying on general business, with Class 4 insurers subject to the strictest regulation. Endurance Bermuda, which is incorporated to carry on general insurance and reinsurance business, is registered as a Class 4 insurer in Bermuda and is regulated as such under the Insurance Act. Endurance Bermuda is not licensed to carry on long-term business. Cancellation of Insurer’s Registration An insurer’s registration may be canceled by the Supervisor of Insurance of the BMA on certain grounds specified in the Insurance Act, including failure of the insurer to comply with its obligations under the Insurance Act or if, in the opinion of the BMA after consultation with the Insurance Advisory Committee, the insurer has not been carrying on business in accordance with sound insurance principles. Principal Representative An insurer is required to maintain a principal office in Bermuda and to appoint and maintain a principal representative in Bermuda. For the purpose of the Insurance Act, Endurance Bermuda’s principal office is its executive offices in Pembroke, Bermuda. Michael J. McGuire has been appointed 32 by the Board of Directors as Endurance Bermuda’s principal representative and is in the process of being approved by the BMA. Without a reason acceptable to the BMA, an insurer may not terminate the appointment of its principal representative, and the principal representative may not cease to act as such, unless 30 days’ notice in writing to BMA is given of the intention to do so. A principal representative shall forthwith notify the BMA, in such a manner as it may direct, (a) on his reaching a view that there is a likelihood of the insurer for which he acts becoming insolvent; (b) on its coming to his knowledge, or his having reason to believe, that an event to which the applicable section of the Insurance Act applies has occurred. Within 14 days of such notification, the principal representative shall furnish the BMA with a report in writing setting out all the particulars of the case that are available to him. For example, the failure by the insurer to comply substantially with a condition imposed upon the insurer by the BMA relating to a solvency margin or liquidity or other ratio would be a reportable ‘‘event.’’ Independent Approved Auditor Every registered insurer must appoint an independent auditor who will audit and report annually on the statutory financial statements and the statutory financial return of the insurer, both of which, in the case of Endurance Bermuda, are required to be filed annually with the BMA. Endurance Bermuda’s independent auditor must be approved by the BMA and may be the same person or firm that audits Endurance Holdings’ consolidated financial statements and reports for presentation to its shareholders. Loss Reserve Specialist As a registered Class 4 insurer, Endurance Bermuda is required to submit an opinion of its approved loss reserve specialist with its statutory financial return in respect of its losses and loss expenses provisions. The loss reserve specialist, who will normally be a qualified casualty actuary, must be approved by the BMA. Michael E. Angelina, Chief Actuary for the Company, has been appointed by our Board of Directors and is in the process of being approved by the BMA to act as Endurance Bermuda’s loss reserve specialist. Statutory Financial Statements An insurer must prepare annual statutory financial statements. The Insurance Act prescribes rules for the preparation and substance of these statutory financial statements (which include, in statutory form, a balance sheet, an income statement, a statement of capital and surplus and notes thereto). The insurer is required to give detailed information and analyses regarding premiums, claims, reinsurance and investments. The statutory financial statements are not prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and are distinct from the financial statements prepared for presentation to the insurer’s shareholders under the Companies Act, which financial statements, in the case of the Company, will be prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. As a general business insurer, Endurance Bermuda is required to submit the annual statutory financial statements as part of the annual statutory financial return. The statutory financial statements and the statutory financial return do not form part of the public records maintained by BMA. Annual Statutory Financial Return Endurance Bermuda is required to file with the BMA a statutory financial return no later than four months after its financial year end (unless specifically extended upon application to the BMA). The statutory financial return for a Class 4 insurer includes, among other matters, a report of the approved independent auditor on the statutory financial statements of the insurer, solvency certificates, the statutory financial statements, the opinion of the loss reserve specialist and a schedule of reinsurance ceded. The solvency certificates must be signed by the principal representative and at least two directors of the insurer certifying that the minimum solvency margin has been met and whether the insurer complied with the conditions attached to its certificate of registration. The independent auditor is required to state whether, in its opinion, it was reasonable for the directors to make these certifications. If an insurer’s accounts have been audited for any purpose other than compliance with the Insurance Act, a statement to that effect must be filed with the statutory financial return. 33 Minimum Solvency Margin and Restrictions on Dividends and Distributions Under the Insurance Act, the value of the general business assets of a Class 4 insurer, such as Endurance Bermuda, must exceed the amount of its general business liabilities by an amount greater than the prescribed minimum solvency margin. Endurance Bermuda: 1. is required, with respect to its general business, to maintain a minimum solvency margin equal to the greater of: a. $100,000,000; b. 50% of net premiums written (being gross premiums written less any premiums ceded by Endurance Bermuda, but Endurance Bermuda may not deduct more than 25% of gross premiums when computing net premiums written); or c. 15% of net losses and loss expense reserves; 2. is prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends during any financial year if it is in breach of its minimum solvency margin or minimum liquidity ratio or if the declaration or payment of such dividends would cause it to fail to meet such margin or ratio (and if it has failed to meet its minimum solvency margin or minimum liquidity ratio on the last day of any financial year, Endurance Bermuda will be prohibited, without the approval of the BMA, from declaring or paying any dividends during the next financial year); 3. is prohibited from declaring or paying in any financial year dividends of more than 25% of its total statutory capital and surplus (as shown on its previous financial year’s statutory balance sheet) unless it files with the BMA (at least 7 days before payment of such dividends) an affidavit stating that it will continue to meet the required margins; 4. is prohibited, without the approval of the BMA, from reducing by 15% or more its total statutory capital as set out in its previous year’s financial statements, and any application for such approval must include an affidavit stating that it will continue to meet the required margins; and 5. is required, at any time it fails to meet its solvency margin, within 30 days (45 days where total statutory capital and surplus falls to $75 million or less) after becoming aware of that failure or having reason to believe that such failure has occurred, to file with the BMA a written report containing certain information. Additionally, under the Companies Act, Endurance Holdings and Endurance Bermuda may only declare or pay a dividend if Endurance Holdings or Endurance Bermuda, as the case may be, has no reasonable grounds for believing that it is, or would after the payment be, unable to pay its liabilities as they become due, or if the realizable value of its assets would not be less than the aggregate of its liabilities and its issued share capital and share premium accounts. Minimum Liquidity Ratio The Insurance Act provides a minimum liquidity ratio for general business insurers, like Endurance Bermuda. An insurer engaged in general business is required to maintain the value of its relevant assets at not less than 75% of the amount of its relevant liabilities. Relevant assets include, but are not limited to, cash and time deposits, quoted investments, unquoted bonds and debentures, first liens on real estate, investment income due and accrued, accounts and premiums receivable, reinsurance balances receivable and funds held by ceding reinsurers. There are certain categories of assets which, unless specifically permitted by the BMA, do not automatically qualify as relevant assets, such as unquoted equity securities, investments in and advances to affiliates and real estate and collateral loans. The relevant liabilities are total general business insurance reserves and total other liabilities less deferred income tax and sundry liabilities (by interpretation, those not specifically defined), letters of credit and guarantees. Supervision, Investigation and Intervention The BMA may appoint an inspector with extensive powers to investigate the affairs of Endurance Bermuda if the BMA believes that such an investigation is in the best interests of its policyholders or 34 persons who may become policyholders. In order to verify or supplement information otherwise provided to the BMA, the BMA may direct Endurance Bermuda to produce documents or information relating to matters connected with its business. In addition, the BMA has the power to require the production of documents from any person who appears to be in possession of such documents. Further, the BMA has the power, in respect of a person registered under the Insurance Act, to appoint a professional person to prepare a report on any aspect of any matter about which the BMA has required or could require information. If it appears to the BMA to be desirable in the interests of the clients of a person registered under the Insurance Act, the BMA may also exercise these powers in relation to any company which is or has at any relevant time been (a) a parent company, subsidiary company or related company of that registered person, (b) a subsidiary company of a parent company of that registered person, (c) a parent company of a subsidiary company of that registered person or (d) a company in the case of which a shareholder controller of that registered person, either alone or with any associate or associates, holds 50 per cent or more of the shares or is entitled to exercise, or control the exercise, of more than 50 per cent of the voting power at a general meeting. If it appears to the BMA that there is a risk of Endurance Bermuda becoming insolvent, or that Endurance Bermuda is in breach of the Insurance Act or any conditions imposed upon its registration, the BMA may, among other things, direct Endurance Bermuda (i) not to effect further contracts of insurance, or any contract of insurance of a specified description; (ii) to limit the aggregate of the premiums to be written by it during a specified period beginning not earlier than 28 days after the direction is given; (iii) not to vary any contract of insurance in force when the direction is given, if the effect of the variation would be to increase the liabilities of the insurer; (iv) not to make any investment of a specified class; (v) before the expiration of a specified period (or such longer period as the BMA may allow) to realize any existing investment of a specified class; (vi) not to declare or pay any dividends or any other distributions, or to restrict the making of such payments to such extent as the BMA thinks fit; (vii) not to enter into any specified transaction with any specified person or persons of a specified class; (viii) to provide such written particulars relating to the financial circumstances of the insurer as the BMA thinks fit; and (ix) to obtain the opinion of a loss reserve specialist with respect to general business, or an actuarial opinion with respect to long-term business, and to submit it to the BMA within a specified time. The BMA intends to meet with each Class 4 insurance company on a voluntary basis, every two years. Disclosure of Information In addition to powers under the Insurance Act to investigate the affairs of an insurer, the BMA may require certain information from an insurer (or certain other persons) to be produced to them. Further, the BMA has been given powers to assist other regulatory authorities, including foreign insurance regulatory authorities, with their investigations involving insurance and reinsurance companies in Bermuda but subject to restrictions. For example, the BMA must be satisfied that the assistance being requested is in connection with the discharge of regulatory responsibilities of the foreign regulatory authority. Further, the BMA must consider whether cooperation is in the public interest. The grounds for disclosure are limited and the Insurance Act provides sanctions for breach of the statutory duty of confidentiality. Under the Companies Act, the Minister has been given powers to assist a foreign regulatory authority which has requested assistance in connection with enquiries being carried out by it in the performance of its regulatory functions. The Minister’s powers include requiring a person to furnish him with information, to produce documents to him, to attend and answer questions and to give assistance in connection with enquiries. The Minister must be satisfied that the assistance requested by the foreign regulatory authority is for the purpose of its regulatory functions and that the request is in relation to information in Bermuda which a person has in his possession or under his control. The Minister must consider, among other things, whether it is in the public interest to give the information sought. Certain Other Bermuda Law Considerations Endurance Holdings and Endurance Bermuda will each also need to comply with the provisions of the Companies Act regulating the payment of dividends and making of distributions from 35 contributed surplus. A company is prohibited from declaring or paying a dividend, or making a distribution out of contributed surplus, if there are reasonable grounds for believing that: (a) the Company is, or would after the payment be, unable to pay its liabilities as they become due; or (b) the realizable value of the Company’s assets would thereby be less than the aggregate of its liabilities and its issued share capital and share premium accounts. Although Endurance Bermuda is incorporated in Bermuda, it is classified as a non-resident of Bermuda for exchange control purposes by the BMA. Pursuant to its non-resident status, Endurance Bermuda may engage in transactions in currencies other than Bermuda dollars and there are no restrictions on its ability to transfer funds (other than funds denominated in Bermuda dollars) in and out of Bermuda or to pay dividends to United States residents who are holders of its ordinary shares. Under Bermuda law, exempted companies are companies formed for the purpose of conducting business outside Bermuda from a principal place of business in Bermuda. As ‘‘exempted’’ companies, Endurance Holdings and Endurance Bermuda may not, without the express authorization of the Bermuda legislature or under a license or consent granted by the Minister, participate in certain business transactions, including: (1) the acquisition or holding of land in Bermuda (except that held by way of lease or tenancy agreement which is required for its business and held for a term not exceeding 50 years, or which is used to provide accommodation or recreational facilities for its officers and employees and held with the consent of the Minister, for a term not exceeding 21 years); (2) the taking of mortgages on land in Bermuda to secure an amount in excess of $50,000; (3) to acquire any bonds or debentures secured on any land in Bermuda except bonds or debentures issued by the Government of Bermuda or a public authority or (4) the carrying on of business of any kind for which it is not licensed in Bermuda, except in certain limited circumstances such as doing business with another exempted undertaking in furtherance of Endurance Holdings’ business or Endurance Bermuda’s business (as the case may be) carried on outside Bermuda. Endurance Bermuda is a licensed insurer in Bermuda, and so may carry on activities from Bermuda that are related to and in support of its insurance business. The Bermuda government actively encourages foreign investment in ‘‘exempted’’ entities like Endurance Holdings and Endurance Bermuda that are based in Bermuda, but do not operate in competition with local businesses. As well as having no restrictions on the degree of foreign ownership, Endurance Holdings and Endurance Bermuda are not currently subject to taxes computed on profits or income or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax or to any foreign exchange controls in Bermuda. See ‘‘Material Tax Considerations — Certain Bermuda Tax Considerations.’’ Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians (other than spouses of Bermudians) may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without an appropriate governmental work permit. Work permits may be granted or extended by the Bermuda government upon showing that, after proper public advertisement in most cases, no Bermudian (or spouse of a Bermudian) is available who meets the minimum standard requirements for the advertised position. The Bermuda government maintains a policy limiting the duration of work permits to six years, with certain exemptions for key employees. U.K. Regulation General On December 1, 2001, the FSA assumed its full powers and responsibilities as the single statutory regulator responsible for regulating the financial services industry in respect of the carrying on of regulated activities (including deposit taking, insurance, investment management and most other financial services business by way of business in the U.K.), with the purpose of maintaining confidence in the U.K. financial system, providing public understanding of the system, securing the proper degree of protection for consumers and helping to reduce financial crime. It is a criminal offense for any person to carry on a regulated activity in the U.K. unless that person is authorized by the FSA and has been granted permission to carry on that regulated activity or falls under an exemption. Insurance business (which includes reinsurance business) is authorized and supervised by the FSA. Insurance business in the United Kingdom is divided between two main categories: long-term 36 insurance (which is primarily investment-related) and general insurance. It is not possible for an insurance company to be authorized in both long-term and general insurance business. These two categories are both divided into ‘‘classes’’ (for example: permanent health and pension fund management are two classes of long-term insurance; damage to property and motor vehicle liability are two classes of general insurance). Under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, effecting or carrying out contracts of insurance, within a class of general or long-term insurance, by way of business in the United Kingdom, constitutes a regulated activity requiring individual authorization. An authorized insurance company must have permission for each class of insurance business it intends to write. Endurance U.K. has received authorization from the FSA to effect and carry out in the United Kingdom contracts of insurance in all classes of general business (limited in the case of credit and suretyship to reinsurance only) except sickness, legal expenses and assistance business. On January 14, 2005, as a result of the implementation by the United Kingdom Government of the Insurance Mediation Directive (2002/92/EC) various additional activities, which had previously been unregulated, fell within the scope of FSA regulation. Endurance UK has accordingly received authorization from the FSA to conduct the following additional regulated activities: arranging (bringing about) deals in investments and making arrangements with a view to transactions in investments. In both cases, those activities are restricted to non-investment insurance contracts. As an authorized insurer in the United Kingdom, Endurance U.K. would be able to operate throughout the E.U., subject to certain regulatory requirements of the FSA and in some cases, certain local regulatory requirements. An insurance company with FSA authorization to write insurance business in the United Kingdom can seek consent from the FSA to allow it to provide cross-border services in other member states of the E.U. As an alternative, FSA consent may be obtained to establish a branch office within another member state. As an FSA authorized insurer, the insurance and reinsurance businesses of Endurance U.K. are subject to close supervision by the FSA. The FSA has implemented specific requirements for senior management arrangements, systems and controls of insurance and reinsurance companies under its jurisdiction, which place a strong emphasis on risk identification and management in relation to the prudential regulation of insurance and reinsurance business in the United Kingdom. The FSA has prompted a market initiative in the United Kingdom insurance industry to resolve perceived problems resulting from contract uncertainty, which may exist where the full terms and conditions of a contract of insurance or reinsurance are not established at or before the time when the contract comes into force. The FSA’s stated preferred outcome is that a market solution is produced which meets the regulator’s main concerns, which are that policyholders should know precisely what protection they have bought; and that insurers, reinsurers and brokers should have a clearer view, at the time of inception of a contract of the relevant legal, fiduciary, operational and underwriting risks to which they are subject. The FSA has stated, however, that new regulatory requirements may be introduced if a satisfactory outcome does not materialize. Any such outcome may therefore increase the required regulatory capital of Endurance U.K., along with other insurers and reinsurers. The FSA expects the United Kingdom insurance industry to produce an acceptable solution by the end of 2006. Supervision The FSA carries out the prudential supervision of insurance companies through a variety of methods, including the collection of information from statistical returns, review of accountants’ reports, visits to insurance companies and regular formal interviews. The FSA has adopted a risk-based approach to the supervision of insurance companies. Under this approach the FSA performs a formal risk assessment of insurance companies or groups carrying on business in the U.K. periodically, which varies in length according to the risk profile of the insurer. The FSA performs the risk assessment by analyzing information which it receives during the normal course of its supervision, such as regular prudential returns on the financial position of the insurance 37 company, or which it acquires through a series of meetings with senior management of the insurance company. After each risk assessment, the FSA will inform the insurer of its views on the insurer’s risk profile. This will include details of any remedial action that the FSA requires and the likely consequences if this action is not taken. Solvency Requirements The Integrated Prudential Sourcebook requires that insurance companies maintain a margin of solvency at all times in respect of any general insurance undertaken by the insurance company, the calculation of which in any particular case depends on the type and amount of insurance business a company writes. The method of calculation of the solvency margin is set out in the Integrated Prudential Sourcebook, and for these purposes, all insurer’s assets and liabilities are subject to specific valuation rules which are set out in the Integrated Prudential Sourcebook. Failure to maintain the required solvency margin is one of the grounds on which wide powers of intervention conferred upon the FSA may be exercised. For financial years ending on or after January 1, 2004, the calculation of the required margin of solvency has been amended as a result of the implementation of the EU Solvency I Directives. In respect of liability business accepted, 150% of the actual premiums written and claims incurred must be included in the calculation, which has had the effect of increasing the required minimum margin of solvency Endurance UK. Endurance U.K. continuously monitors its solvency capital position and maintains capital in excess of the required minimum margin of solvency. Each insurance company writing various classes of business is required by the Integrated Prudential Sourcebook to maintain equalization provisions calculated in accordance with the provisions of the Integrated Prudential. Insurers are required to calculate an Enhanced Capital Requirement in addition to their required minimum solvency margin. This represents a more risk-based calculation than the previous solvency margin requirements. There is also a requirement for insurers to maintain financial resources which are adequate, both as to amount and quality, to ensure that there is no significant risk that its liabilities cannot be met as they come due. In order to carry out the assessment as to the necessary financial resources that are required, insurers are required to identify the major sources of risk to its ability to meet its liabilities as they come due, and to carry out stress and scenario tests to identify an appropriate range of realistic adverse scenarios in which the risk crystallizes and to estimate the financial resources needed in each of the circumstances and events identified. In addition, the FSA gives individual capital guidance regularly to insurers and reinsurers following receipt of individual capital assessments, prepared by firms themselves. The FSA’s guidance may be that a company should hold more or less than its then current level of regulatory capital, or that the company’s regulatory capital should remain unaltered. Endurance U.K. is currently calculating the Enhanced Capital Requirement for December 31, 2005. Should the Company not meet this test, additional capital may be required. Endurance U.K. has submitted an individual capital assessment solvency calculation to the FSA. This calculation is used along with other tools by the FSA to help establish the ICG. The FSA are currently in the process of establishing the ICG number required for Endurance U.K. It is expected that this will be set during mid-2006. In addition, an insurer (other than a pure reinsurer) that is part of a group, is required to perform and submit to the FSA a solvency margin calculation return in respect of its ultimate parent undertaking, in accordance with the FSA’s rules. This return is not part of an insurer’s own solvency return and hence will not be publicly available. Although there is no requirement for the parent undertaking solvency calculation to show a positive result, the FSA may take action where it considers that the solvency of the insurance company is or may be jeopardized due to the group solvency position. Further, an insurer is required to report in its annual returns to the FSA all material related party transactions (e.g., intra group reinsurance, whose value is more than 5% of the insurer’s general insurance business amount). Restrictions on Dividend Payments U.K. company law prohibits Endurance U.K. from declaring a dividend to its shareholders unless it has ‘‘profits available for distribution.’’ The determination of whether a company has profits 38 available for distribution is based on its accumulated realized profits less its accumulated realized losses. While the United Kingdom insurance regulatory laws impose no statutory restrictions on a general insurer’s ability to declare a dividend, the FSA strictly controls the maintenance of each insurance company’s solvency margin within its jurisdiction. The FSA’s rules require Endurance U.K., in its early years of trading, to notify the FSA of any proposed or actual payment of a dividend that is greater than forecast in the business plans submitted by Endurance U.K. with its application for authorization. Any such payment or proposal could result in regulatory intervention. In addition, the FSA requires authorized insurance companies to notify the FSA in advance of any significant dividend payment. Reporting Requirements U.K. insurance companies must prepare their financial statements under the Companies Act of 1985 (as amended), which requires the filing with Companies House of audited financial statements and related reports. In addition, U.K. insurance companies are required to file with the FSA regulatory returns, which include a revenue account, a profit and loss account and a balance sheet in prescribed forms. Under the Interim Prudential Sourcebook for Insurers, audited regulatory returns must be filed with the FSA within two months and 15 days (or three months where the delivery of the return is made electronically). This rule is likely to be replaced by a similar rule under the Integrated Prudential Sourcebook, when those rules come fully into force. As a recently authorized insurer, Endurance U.K. is also required to submit abridged quarterly information to the FSA. Supervision of Management The FSA closely supervises the management of insurance companies through the approved persons regime, by which any appointment of persons to perform certain specified ‘‘controlled functions’’ within a regulated entity, must be approved by the FSA. Change of Control FSMA regulates the acquisition of control of any U.K. insurance company authorized under FSMA. Any company or individual that (together with its or his associates) directly or indirectly acquires 10% or more of the shares in a U.K. authorized insurance company or its parent company, or is entitled to exercise or control the exercise of 10% or more of the voting power in such authorized insurance company or its parent company, would be considered to have acquired control for the purposes of the relevant legislation, as would a person who had significant influence over the management of such authorized insurance company or its parent company by virtue of his shareholding or voting power in either. A purchaser of 10% or more of the ordinary shares would therefore be considered to have acquired control of Endurance U.K. Under FSMA, any person proposing to acquire control over a U.K. authorized insurance company must give prior notification to the FSA of his intention to do so. The FSA would then have three months to consider that person’s application to acquire control. In considering whether to approve such application, the FSA must be satisfied that both the acquirer is a fit and proper person to have such control and that the interests of consumers would not be threatened by such acquisition of control. Failure to make the relevant prior application could result in action being taken against the Company by the FSA. Intervention and Enforcement The FSA has extensive powers to intervene in the affairs of an authorized person, culminating in the ultimate sanction of the removal of authorization to carry on a regulated activity. FSMA imposes on the FSA statutory obligations to monitor compliance with the requirements imposed by FSMA, and to enforce the provisions of FSMA related rules made by the FSA. The FSA has power, among other things, to enforce and take disciplinary measures in respect of breaches of both the Integrated Prudential Sourcebook and breaches of the conduct of business rules generally applicable to 39 authorized persons. The FSA also has the power to prosecute criminal offenses arising under FSMA, and to prosecute insider dealing under Part V of the Criminal Justice Act of 1993, and breaches of money laundering regulations. The FSA’s stated policy is to pursue criminal prosecution in all appropriate cases. Passporting European Union directives allow Endurance U.K. to conduct business in European Union states other than the United Kingdom in compliance with the scope of permission granted these companies by the FSA without the necessity of additional licensing or authorization in other European Union jurisdictions. This ability to operate in other jurisdictions of the European Union on the basis of home state authorization and supervision is sometimes referred to as passporting. Insurers may operate outside their home member state either on a services basis or on an establishment basis. Operating on a services basis means that the Company conducts permitted businesses in the host state without having a physical presence there, while operating on an establishment basis means the Company has a branch or physical presence in the host state. In both cases, a company remains subject to regulation by its home regulator, and not by local regulatory authorities, although the Company nonetheless may have to comply with certain local rules. In addition to European Union member states, Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein (members of the broader European Economic Area) are jurisdictions in which this passporting framework applies. U.S. Regulation Endurance U.S. Reinsurance was organized on September 5, 2002. On December 18, 2002, Endurance U.S. Reinsurance received a license to write certain lines of insurance and reinsurance business from the New York State Department of Insurance. On August 1, 2005, Endurance U.S. Reinsurance acquired Endurance U.S. Insurance, which is domiciled in Delaware, is licensed to write certain lines of insurance and reinsurance in Delaware, Idaho and Wyoming and (as of February 6, 2006) is eligible to write surplus lines insurance in an additional thirty-four jurisdictions. State Insurance Holding Company Regulation of Endurance Holdings Endurance Holdings, as the indirect parent of Endurance U.S. Reinsurance and Endurance U.S. Insurance, and Endurance U.S. Holdings Corp., as the direct parent of Endurance U.S. Reinsurance, are subject to the insurance holding company laws of New York and Delaware, the states in which Endurance U.S. Reinsurance and Endurance U.S. Insurance are organized and domiciled. These laws generally require the insurance holding company and each insurance company directly or indirectly owned by the holding company to register with the Insurance Departments of New York and Delaware and to furnish annually financial and other information about the operations of companies within the holding company system. Generally, all material transactions among companies in the holding company system affecting Endurance U.S. Reinsurance and Endurance U.S. Insurance, including sales, loans, reinsurance agreements, service agreements and dividend payments, must be fair and, if material or of a specified category, require prior notice and approval or non-disapproval by the New York Superintendent and the Delaware Commissioner of Insurance. Changes of Control Before a person can acquire control of a U.S. domestic insurer or reinsurer, prior written approval must be obtained from the insurance commissioner of the state where the domestic insurer is domiciled. Prior to granting approval of an application to acquire control of a domestic insurer, the state insurance commissioner where the insurer is domiciled will consider such factors as the financial strength of the applicant, the integrity and management of the applicant’s board of directors and executive officers, the acquiror’s plans for the future operations of the domestic insurer and any anti-competitive results that may arise from the consummation of the acquisition of control. Generally, state statutes provide that control over a domestic insurer is presumed to exist if any person, directly 40 or indirectly, owns, controls, holds with the power to vote, or holds proxies representing, ten percent or more of the voting securities of the domestic insurer. Because a person acquiring ten percent or more of Endurance Holdings’ ordinary shares would indirectly acquire the same percentage of common stock of both Endurance U.S. Reinsurance and Endurance U.S. Insurance, the U.S. insurance change of control laws will likely apply to such a transaction. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of Endurance Holdings, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of the shareholders of Endurance Holdings might consider to be desirable. State Insurance Regulation of Endurance U.S. Reinsurance and Endurance U.S. Insurance The terms and conditions of reinsurance agreements generally are not subject to regulation by any U.S. state insurance department with respect to rates or policy terms. This contrasts with primary insurance agreements, the rates and policy terms of which are generally closely regulated by state insurance departments. As a practical matter, however, the rates charged by primary insurers do have an effect on the rates that can be charged by reinsurers. State insurance authorities have broad regulatory powers with respect to various aspects of the business of both Endurance U.S. Reinsurance and Endurance U.S. Insurance including: licensing to transact business, admittance of assets to statutory surplus, regulating unfair trade and claims practices, establishing reserve requirements and solvency standards, and regulating investments and dividends. With respect to direct insurance business, states may also regulate rates and forms used by insurers admitted to transact business within a given state jurisdiction. State insurance laws and regulations require Endurance U.S. Reinsurance and Endurance U.S. Insurance to file financial statements with insurance departments everywhere it is licensed or authorized or accredited to conduct insurance business; and the operations of Endurance U.S. Reinsurance and Endurance U.S. Insurance are subject to examination by those departments at any time. Endurance U.S. Reinsurance and Endurance U.S. Insurance prepare statutory financial statements in accordance with statutory accounting practices and procedures prescribed or permitted by these departments. State insurance departments also conduct periodic examinations of the books and records, financial reporting, policy filings and market conduct of insurance companies domiciled in their states, generally once every three to five years. Examinations are generally carried out in cooperation with the insurance departments of other states under guidelines promulgated by the NAIC. State Dividend Limitations Under the New York and Delaware Insurance Law, Endurance U.S. Reinsurance and Endurance U.S. Insurance, respectively, may only pay dividends to us out of earned surplus. Under New York Insurance Law, this is defined as the portion of the insurer’s surplus that represents net earnings, gains or profits, after deduction of all losses, that have not been distributed to shareholders as dividends or transferred to stated capital or capital surplus or applied to other purposes permitted by law, but does not include unrealized appreciation of assets. In Delaware, the definition of earned surplus is an amount equal to the unassigned funds of an insurer as set forth in the most recent annual statement of the insurer submitted to the Delaware Commissioner, including all or part of the surplus arising from unrealized capital gains or revaluation of assets. In addition, the ability of Endurance U.S. Reinsurance to declare or pay any dividend to us which, together with all dividends declared or distributed by it during the preceding twelve months, exceeds the lesser of: 1. 10% of Endurance U.S. Reinsurance’s surplus to policyholders as shown on its last statement on file with the New York Superintendent; or 2. 100% of Endurance U.S. Reinsurance’s adjusted net investment income during that period will be subject to the prior approval of the New York Superintendent. The ability of Endurance U.S. Insurance to declare or pay any dividend, together with all dividends declared or distributed by it during the previous 12 months exceeds the greater of: 41 1. ten percent of its policyholders surplus as of the 31st day of December next preceding; or 2. the net income, not including realized capital gains for the 12-month period ending the 31st day of December next preceding will be subject to the prior approval of the Delaware Commissioner. Any dividend paid by Endurance U.S. Insurance must first be paid to its immediate parent, Endurance U.S. Reinsurance, which is subject to the restrictions of the New York Insurance Law, as set forth above. The dividend limitations imposed by the New York and Delaware Insurance Law is based on the statutory financial results of Endurance U.S. Reinsurance and Endurance U.S. Insurance determined by using statutory accounting practices which differ in certain respects from accounting principles used in financial statements prepared in conformity with U.S. GAAP. The significant differences relate to deferred acquisition expenses, deferred income taxes, required investment reserves, reserve calculation assumptions and surplus notes. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, neither Endurance U.S. Reinsurance nor Endurance U.S. Insurance had earned surplus, and therefore, both entities will be precluded from declaring or distributing any dividend until each entity has earned surplus. New York and Delaware State Risk-Based Capital Regulations The New York and Delaware Insurance Laws require that insurers report their risk-based capital (‘‘RBC’’) based on a formula calculated by applying factors to various asset, premium and reserve items. The formula takes into account the risk characteristics of the insurer, including asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk and business risk. The Departments use the formula only as an early warning regulatory tool to identify possibly inadequately capitalized insurers for purposes of initiating regulatory action, and not as a means to rank insurers generally. The Insurance Laws impose broad confidentiality requirements on those engaged in the insurance business (including insurers, agents, brokers and others) and on the Departments as to the use and publication of RBC data. The New York Superintendent and Delaware Commissioner have explicit regulatory authority to require various actions by, or take various actions against, insurers whose total adjusted capital does not exceed certain RBC levels. Statutory Accounting Practices Statutory accounting practices, or ‘‘SAP,’’ is a basis of accounting developed to assist U.S. insurance regulators in monitoring and regulating the solvency of insurance companies. It is primarily concerned with measuring an insurer’s surplus to policyholders. Accordingly, statutory accounting focuses on valuing assets and liabilities of insurers at financial reporting dates in accordance with appropriate insurance law and regulatory provisions applicable in each insurer’s domiciliary state. U.S. GAAP is concerned with a company’s solvency, but it is also concerned with other financial measurements, such as income and cash flows. Accordingly, U.S. GAAP gives more consideration to appropriate matching of revenue and expenses and accounting for management’s stewardship of assets than does SAP. As a direct result, different assets and liabilities and different amounts of assets and liabilities will be reflected in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP as opposed to SAP. Statutory accounting practices established by the NAIC and adopted, in part, by the New York and Delaware Departments, determine, among other things, the amount of statutory surplus and statutory net income of our U.S. insurance subsidiary and thus determine, in part, the amount of funds they have available to pay dividends to us. Operations of Endurance U.K. and Endurance Bermuda Endurance U.K. and Endurance Bermuda are not admitted to do business in the United States. However, the insurance laws of each state of the United States and of many other countries regulate or prohibit the sale of insurance and reinsurance within their jurisdictions by non-domestic insurers and reinsurers such as Endurance U.K. and Endurance Bermuda, which are not admitted to do business within such jurisdictions. 42 In addition to the regulatory requirements imposed by the jurisdictions in which they are licensed, reinsurers’ business operations are affected by regulatory requirements in various states of the United States governing ‘‘credit for reinsurance’’ which are imposed on their ceding companies. In general, a ceding company which obtains reinsurance from a reinsurer that is licensed, accredited or approved by the jurisdiction or state in which the reinsurer files statutory financial statements is permitted to reflect in its statutory financial statements a credit in an aggregate amount equal to the liability for unearned premiums (which are that portion of premiums written which applies to the unexpired portion of the policy period) and loss reserves and loss expense reserves ceded to the reinsurer. Endurance U.K. and Endurance Bermuda are not licensed, accredited or approved in any state in the U.S. The great majority of states, however, permit a credit to statutory surplus resulting from reinsurance obtained from a non-licensed or non-accredited reinsurer to be offset to the extent that the reinsurer provides a letter of credit or other acceptable security arrangement. A few states do not allow credit for reinsurance ceded to non-licensed reinsurers except in certain limited circumstances and others impose additional requirements that make it difficult to become accredited. We do not believe that Endurance U.K. and Endurance Bermuda are in violation of insurance laws of any jurisdiction in the U.S. There can be no assurance however, that inquiries or challenges to Endurance U.K.’s or Endurance Bermuda’s insurance or reinsurance activities will not be raised in the future. MATERIAL TAX CONSIDERATIONS Certain Bermuda Tax Considerations Currently, there is no Bermuda income, corporation or profits tax, withholding tax, capital gains tax, capital transfer tax, estate duty or inheritance tax payable by us or our shareholders, other than shareholders ordinarily resident in Bermuda, if any. Currently, there is no Bermuda withholding or other tax on principal interest or dividends paid to holders of the ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares, other than holders ordinarily resident in Bermuda, if any. There can be no assurance that we or our shareholders will not be subject to any such tax in the future. Endurance Bermuda has received written assurance dated December 7, 2001 and Endurance Holdings has received written assurance dated July 18, 2002 from the Minister under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966 of Bermuda, as amended, that if there is enacted in Bermuda any legislation imposing tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of that tax would not be applicable to Endurance Bermuda or Endurance Holdings or to any of their respective operations, shares, debentures or obligations until March 28, 2016; provided, that the assurance is subject to the condition that it will not be construed to prevent the application of such tax to people ordinarily resident in Bermuda, or to prevent the application of any taxes payable by Endurance Bermuda or Endurance Holdings in respect of real property or leasehold interests in Bermuda held by them. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to any such tax after March 28, 2016. Certain United Kingdom Tax Considerations Endurance U.K. is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom and is, therefore, resident in the United Kingdom for United Kingdom corporation tax purposes and will be subject to United Kingdom corporation tax on its worldwide profits. The current rate of United Kingdom corporation tax is generally 30% on profits of whatever description. Currently, no United Kingdom withholding tax applies to dividends paid by Endurance U.K. Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations The following discussion is a summary of certain U.S. federal income tax considerations relating to Endurance Holdings, Endurance Bermuda, Endurance U.K., Endurance U.S. Reinsurance, Endurance U.S. Insurance and the ownership of our ordinary shares and Series A Preferred Shares. 43 This summary is based upon the Code, the regulations promulgated under, rulings and other administrative pronouncements issued by the IRS, judicial decisions, the tax treaty between the United States and Bermuda (the ‘‘Bermuda Treaty’’) and the tax treaty between the United States and the United Kingdom (the ‘‘U.K. Treaty’’), all as currently in effect, and all of which are subject to differing interpretations or to change, possibly with retroactive effect. No assurance can be given that the IRS would assert, or that a court would not sustain, a position contrary to any of the tax consequences described below. No advance ruling has been or will be sought from the IRS regarding any matter discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This summary is for general information only, and does not purport to discuss all aspects of U.S. federal income taxation that may be important to a particular investor in light of such investor’s investment or tax circumstances, or to investors subject to special tax rules, such as tax-exempt organizations, dealers in securities, banks, insurance companies, persons that hold ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares that are a hedge or that are hedged against interest rate or insurance risks or that are part of a straddle or conversion transaction, or persons whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar. This summary assumes that an investor will hold our ordinary shares and Series A Preferred Shares as capital assets, which generally means as property held for investment. Investors should consult their tax advisors concerning the consequences, in their particular circumstances, of the ownership of ordinary shares and Series A Preferred Shares under U.S. federal, state, local and other tax laws. For U.S. federal income tax purposes and for purposes of the following discussion, a ‘‘U.S. Person’’ means (i) a citizen or resident of the United States, (ii) a corporation, or other entity treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, or a partnership, or other entity treated as a partnership for U.S federal income tax purposes, in each case created or organized in the United States or under the laws of the United States or of any of its political subdivisions, (iii) an estate the income of which is subject to U.S. federal income tax without regard to its source or (iv) a trust if either (a) a court within the United States is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of the trust and one or more U.S. Persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust or (b) the trust has a valid election in effect to be treated as a U.S. Person for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A ‘‘Non-U.S. Person’’ is a nonresident alien individual, or a corporation, estate or trust that is not a U.S. person. If a partnership owns ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares, the tax treatment of a partner will generally depend upon the status of the partner and the activities of the partnership. If you are a partner of a partnership that owns ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares, you should consult your tax advisor. United States Taxation of Endurance Holdings, Endurance Bermuda, Endurance U.K., Endurance U.S. Reinsurance and Endurance U.S. Insurance We intend to continue to operate Endurance Holdings, Endurance Bermuda and Endurance U.K. in such a manner that they will not be considered to be conducting business within the United States for purposes of U.S. federal income taxation. Whether business is being conducted in the United States is an inherently factual determination. Because the Code, regulations and court decisions fail to identify definitively activities that constitute being engaged in a trade or business in the United States, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not contend successfully that Endurance Holdings, Endurance Bermuda and/or Endurance U.K. are or will be engaged in a trade or business in the United States. A foreign corporation deemed to be so engaged would be subject to U.S. federal income tax (at a current maximum rate of 35%), as well as a 30% branch profits tax in certain circumstances, on its income which is treated as effectively connected with the conduct of that trade or business unless the corporation is entitled to relief under the permanent establishment provision of an applicable tax treaty, as discussed below. Such income tax, if imposed, would be based on effectively connected income computed in a manner generally analogous to that applied to the income of a U.S. corporation, except that a foreign corporation is entitled to deductions and credits only if it timely files a U.S. federal income tax return. Endurance Holdings, Endurance Bermuda and Endurance U.K. intend to file protective U.S. federal income tax returns on a timely basis in order to preserve the right to claim income tax deductions and credits if it is ever determined that they are subject to U.S. federal income tax. 44 If Endurance Bermuda is entitled to the benefits under the Bermuda Treaty, it will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on any income found to be effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business unless that trade or business is conducted through a permanent establishment in the United States. Whether business is being conducted in the United States through a permanent establishment is an inherently factual determination. Endurance Bermuda intends to conduct its activities so as not to have a permanent establishment in the United States, although there can be no assurance that it will achieve this result. An insurance enterprise resident in Bermuda generally will be entitled to the benefits of the Bermuda Treaty if (i) more than 50% of its shares are owned beneficially, directly or indirectly, by individual residents of the United States or Bermuda or U.S. citizens and (ii) its income is not used in substantial part, directly or indirectly, to make disproportionate distributions to, or to meet certain liabilities of, persons who are neither residents of either the United States or Bermuda nor U.S. citizens. Foreign insurance companies that conduct an insurance business within the United States must maintain a certain minimum amount of effectively connected net investment income, determined in accordance with a formula that depends, in part, on the amount of U.S. risk insured or reinsured by such companies. If Endurance Bermuda is considered to be engaged in the conduct of an insurance business in the United States and it is not entitled to the benefits of the Bermuda Treaty, either because it fails to satisfy one of the limitations on Bermuda Treaty benefits described above or because Endurance Bermuda is considered to have a U.S. permanent establishment, a significant portion of Endurance Bermuda’s premium and investment income could be subject to U.S. federal income tax. In addition, while the Bermuda Treaty clearly applies to premium income, it is not clear whether it applies to other income, such as investment income. If Endurance Bermuda is considered to be engaged in the conduct of an insurance business in the United States and is entitled to the benefits of the Bermuda Treaty, but the Bermuda Treaty is interpreted so as not to apply to investment income, a significant portion of Endurance Bermuda’s investment income could be subject to U.S. federal income tax even if Endurance Bermuda does not maintain a permanent establishment in the United States. Under the U.K. Treaty, Endurance U.K., if entitled to the benefits of the U.K. Treaty, will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on any income found to be effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business unless that trade or business is conducted through a permanent establishment in the United States. Endurance U.K. intends to conduct its activities in a manner so that it does not have a permanent establishment in the United States, although we cannot predict whether we will achieve this result. Endurance U.K. will be entitled to the benefits of the U.K. Treaty if (i) during at least half of the days during the relevant taxable period, at least 50% of Endurance U.K.’s stock is beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by citizens or residents of the United States and the United Kingdom, and less than 50% of Endurance U.K.’s gross income for the relevant taxable period is paid or accrued, directly or indirectly, to persons who are not U.S. or U.K. residents in the form of payments that are deductible for purposes of U.K. taxation or (ii) with respect to specific items of income, profit or gain derived from the United States, if such income, profit or gain is considered to be derived in connection with, or incidental to, Endurance U.K.’s business conducted in the United Kingdom. Foreign corporations not engaged in a trade or business in the United States are nonetheless subject to U.S. withholding tax at a rate of 30% of the gross amount of certain ‘‘fixed or determinable annual or periodical gains, profits and income’’ derived from sources within the United States (such as dividends and certain interest on investments), subject to reduction by applicable treaties. The United States also imposes an excise tax on insurance and reinsurance premiums paid to foreign insurers or reinsurers with respect to risks located in the United States. The rate of tax applicable to premiums paid to Endurance Bermuda is 4% for casualty insurance premiums and 1% for reinsurance premiums. The excise tax will not apply to premiums paid to Endurance U.K. if Endurance U.K. is entitled to the benefits of the U.K. Treaty, and certain other requirements are met. Endurance U.S. Reinsurance is a New York State corporation and Endurance U.S. Insurance is a Delaware company. Each will be subject to taxation in the United States at regular corporate rates. Dividends paid by Endurance U.S. Holdings Corp. to Endurance Bermuda will be subject to U.S. withholding tax at the rate of 30%. 45 United States Taxation of Holders of Ordinary Shares and Series A Preferred Shares Shareholders Who Are U.S. Persons Dividends. Distributions with respect to ordinary shares and Series A Preferred Shares (including the payment of additional amounts, in the case of the Series A Preferred Shares) will be treated as ordinary dividend income to the extent of Endurance Holdings’ current or accumulated earnings and profits as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes, subject to the discussion below relating to the potential application of the ‘‘controlled foreign corporation,’’ ‘‘related person insurance income’’ and ‘‘passive foreign investment company’’ rules These dividends should constitute ‘‘qualified dividend income’’ as defined in Section 1(h)(11)(B) of the Code and, thus, should be entitled to the 15% preferential federal income tax rate applicable to ‘‘qualified dividends’’ received before January 1, 2009 by certain shareholders (such as individuals), provided that we are not considered a PFIC or a foreign investment company. Distributions with respect to Endurance Holdings’ ordinary shares and Series A Preferred Shares will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction allowed to U.S. corporations under the Code. The amount of any distribution in excess of the current and accumulated earnings and profits of Endurance Holdings will first be applied to reduce a holder’s tax basis in the ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares as the case may be, and any amount in excess of tax basis will be treated as gain from the sale or exchange of such holder’s shares. Classification of Endurance Holdings, Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda as a Controlled Foreign Corporation. Each ‘‘10% U.S. Shareholder’’ of a foreign corporation that is a CFC for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during a taxable year, and who owns shares in the CFC directly or indirectly through foreign entities, in such corporation on the last day, in such year, in which such corporation is a CFC must include in its gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of the CFC’s ‘‘subpart F income,’’ even if the subpart F income is not distributed. A foreign corporation is considered a CFC if ‘‘10% U.S. Shareholders’’ own (directly, indirectly through foreign entities or constructively pursuant to the application of certain constructive ownership rules) more than 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of voting stock of such foreign corporation, or the total value of all stock of such corporation. A 10% U.S. Shareholder is a U.S. Person who owns at least 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote of the foreign corporation. The Series A Preferred Shares should not be considered voting stock for purposes of determining whether a U.S. Person would be a ‘‘10% U.S. Shareholder’’ unless and until there exists a Nonpayment Event which triggers the Series A Preferred Shareholders' right to elect two additional directors to the board of directors of Endurance Holdings. In such case, the Series A Preferred Shares should be treated as voting stock for as long as such right continues. For purposes of taking into account insurance income, a CFC also includes a foreign corporation in which more than 25% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock (or more than 25% of the total value of the stock) is owned (directly, indirectly through foreign entities or constructively pursuant to the application of certain constructive ownership rules) by 10% U.S. Shareholders, on any day during the taxable year of such corporation, if the gross amount of premiums or other consideration for the reinsurance or the issuing of insurance contracts exceeds 75% of the gross amount of all premiums or other consideration in respect of all risks. Due to the anticipated dispersion of Endurance Holdings’ share ownership among holders, its bye-law provisions that impose limitations on the concentration of voting power of any shares that are entitled to vote and authorize the board to repurchase such shares under certain circumstances and other factors, no U.S. Person that owns shares in Endurance Holdings directly or indirectly through foreign entities should be subject to treatment as a 10% U.S. Shareholder of a CFC. (These bye-law provisions are described in ‘‘Risk Factors — Risks Related to Ownership of Our Ordinary Shares and our Series A Preferred Shares.’’). There can be no assurance, however, that the IRS will not challenge the effectiveness of these provisions for purposes of preventing 10% U.S. Shareholder status and that a court will not sustain such challenge. 46 RPII Companies. The CFC rules also apply to certain insurance companies that earn ‘‘related person insurance income.’’ For purposes of applying the CFC rules to foreign corporations that earn RPII, a different definition of ‘‘controlled foreign corporation,’’ as discussed below, applies. RPII is defined as any ‘‘insurance income’’ attributable to policies of insurance or reinsurance with respect to which the person (directly or indirectly) insured is a ‘‘RPII Shareholder’’ of the foreign corporation or a ‘‘related person’’ to such RPII Shareholder. In general, and subject to certain limitations, ‘‘insurance income’’ is income (including premium and investment income) attributable to the issuing of any insurance or reinsurance contract which would be taxed under the portions of the Code relating to insurance companies if the income were the income of a domestic insurance company. For purposes of the RPII rules, ‘‘related person’’ means someone who controls or is controlled by the RPII Shareholder or someone who is controlled by the same person or persons which control the RPII Shareholder. ‘‘Control’’ is measured by either more than 50% in value or more than 50% in voting power of stock, applying constructive ownership principles. A corporation’s pension plan is ordinarily not a ‘‘related person’’ with respect to the corporation unless the pension plan owns, directly or indirectly through the application of constructive ownership rules, more than 50%, measured by vote or value, of the stock of the corporation. For purposes of inclusion of Endurance U.K.’s or Endurance Bermuda’s RPII in the income of a RPII Shareholder, to the extent required under the RPII rules, the term ‘‘RPII Shareholder’’ means any U.S. Person who owns, directly or indirectly through foreign entities, any amount (rather than stock possessing 10% or more of the total combined voting power) of Endurance U.K.’s or Endurance Bermuda’s stock. Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda will be treated as a CFC for RPII purposes if such persons collectively own directly, indirectly through foreign entities or by application of the constructive ownership rules 25% or more of the stock of Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda by vote or value. RPII Exceptions. The special RPII rules do not apply if (i) direct or indirect insureds and persons related to such insureds, whether or not U.S. Persons, own, directly or indirectly, less than 20% of the voting power and less than 20% of the value of the stock of Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda, as applicable (the ‘‘20% Ownership Exception’’), (ii) RPII, determined on a gross basis, is less than 20% of Endurance U.K.’s or Endurance Bermuda’s gross insurance income for the taxable year, as applicable (the ‘‘20% Gross Income Exception’’), (iii) Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda elects to be taxed on its RPII as if the RPII were effectively connected with the conduct of a U.S. trade or business and to waive all treaty benefits with respect to RPII and meets certain other requirements or (iv) Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda elects to be treated as a U.S. corporation. Endurance Bermuda and Endurance U.K. intend to operate in a manner that is intended to ensure that each qualifies for the 20% Gross Income Exception. It is possible that neither Endurance Bermuda nor Endurance U.K. will be successful in qualifying under this exception. If none of these exceptions applies, each U.S. Person who owns shares in Endurance Holdings (and therefore, indirectly in Endurance U.K. and Endurance Bermuda) on the last day of Endurance Holdings’ taxable year, will be required to include in its gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its share of RPII of Endurance U.K. and/or Endurance Bermuda for the entire taxable year. This inclusion will be determined as if such RPII were distributed proportionately only to such U.S. Persons holding shares in Endurance Holdings at that date. The inclusion will be limited to the current-year earnings and profits of Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda, as applicable, reduced by the shareholder’s pro rata share, if any, of certain prior year deficits in earnings and profits. Computation of RPII. In order to determine how much RPII each of Endurance U.K. and Endurance Bermuda has earned in each taxable year, Endurance Holdings intends to obtain and rely upon information from Endurance U.K.’s and Endurance Bermuda’s insureds and reinsureds to determine whether any of the insureds, reinsureds or other persons related to such insureds or reinsureds own shares in Endurance Holdings and are U.S. Persons. Endurance Holdings may not be able to determine whether any of the underlying insureds of the insurance companies to which Endurance U.K. and Endurance Bermuda provide insurance or reinsurance are U.S. shareholders or 47 related persons to such shareholders. Consequently, Endurance Holdings may not be able to determine accurately the gross amount of RPII earned by Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda in a given taxable year. For any taxable year in which Endurance U.K.’s or Endurance Bermuda’s gross RPII is 20% or more of its gross insurance income for the year, Endurance Holdings may also seek information from its shareholders to determine whether direct or indirect owners of shares in Endurance Holdings at the end of the year are U.S. Persons so that the RPII may be determined and apportioned among such persons. To the extent Endurance Holdings is unable to determine whether a direct or indirect owner of shares is a U.S. Person, Endurance Holdings may assume that such owner is not a U.S. Person, thereby increasing the per share RPII amount for all shareholders identified as U.S. Persons. Basis Adjustments. A RPII Shareholder’s tax basis in its Endurance Holdings ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares, as the case may be, will be increased by the amount of any RPII that the shareholder includes in income. Any distributions made by Endurance Holdings out of previously taxed RPII income will be exempt from further tax in the hands of the RPII Shareholder. The RPII Shareholder’s tax basis in its Endurance Holdings shares will be reduced by the amount of any distributions that are excluded from income under this rule. Information Reporting. Under certain circumstances, U.S. Persons owning stock in a foreign corporation are required to file IRS Form 5471 with their U.S. federal income tax returns. Generally, information reporting on IRS Form 5471 is required with respect to (i) a person who is treated as a RPII Shareholder, (ii) a 10% U.S. Shareholder of a foreign corporation that is a CFC for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during any tax year of the foreign corporation, and who owned the stock on the last of that year and (iii) under certain circumstances, a U.S. Person who acquires stock in a foreign corporation, and as a result thereof owns 10% or more of the voting power or value of such foreign corporation, whether or not such foreign corporation is a CFC. For any taxable year in which Endurance Holdings determines that gross RPII constitutes 20% or more of Endurance U.K.’s or Endurance Bermuda’s gross insurance income and the 20% Ownership Exception does not apply, Endurance Holdings intends to mail to all U.S. Persons registered as holders of its ordinary shares and Series A Preferred Shares IRS Form 5471, completed with information from Endurance Holdings, for attachment to the U.S. federal income tax returns of such shareholders. A tax-exempt organization that is treated as a 10% U.S. Shareholder or a RPII Shareholder also must file IRS Form 5471 in the circumstances described above. Failure to file IRS Form 5471 may result in penalties. Tax-Exempt Shareholders. Tax-exempt entities will be required to treat certain subpart F insurance income, including RPII, that is includible in income by the tax-exempt entity as unrelated business taxable income. Dispositions of Ordinary Shares and Series A Preferred Shares. Subject to the discussion below relating to the redemption of Series A Preferred Shares or the potential application of Code section 1248 or the ‘‘PFIC’’ rules, any gain or loss realized by a U.S. Person on the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares will be subject to U.S. federal income taxation as capital gain or loss in an amount equal to the difference between the amount realized upon such sale or exchange and such person’s tax basis in the shares. If the holding period for these shares exceeds one year at the time of the disposition, any gain will be subject to tax at a current maximum marginal tax rate of 15% for individuals and 35% for corporations. Moreover, gain, if any, generally will be U.S. source gain and generally will constitute ‘‘passive income’’ for foreign tax credit limitation purposes. Code section 1248 provides that if a U.S. Person sells or exchanges stock in a foreign corporation and such person owned directly, indirectly through certain foreign entities or constructively 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation at any time during the five-year period ending on the date of disposition when the corporation was a CFC, any gain from the sale or exchange of the shares will be treated as ordinary income to the extent of the CFC’s earnings and profits (determined under U.S. federal income tax principles) during the period that the shareholder held the shares and while the corporation was a CFC (with certain adjustments). A 10% U.S. Shareholder may in certain circumstances be required to report a disposition of shares of a CFC by attaching IRS Form 5471 to 48 the U.S. federal income tax or information return that it would normally file for the taxable year in which the disposition occurs. For these purposes, the Series A Preferred Shares should not be considered as having voting power unless and until there exists a Nonpayment Event which triggers the Series A Preferred Shareholders' right to elect two additional directors to the board of directors of Endurance Holdings. In such case, the Series A Preferred Shares should be treated as voting stock for as long as such right continues. Section 1248 also applies to the sale or exchange of shares in a foreign corporation if the foreign corporation would be treated as a CFC for RPII purposes and would be taxed as an insurance company if it were a domestic corporation, regardless of whether the shareholder is a 10% U.S. Shareholder or whether the 20% Gross Income Exception or the 20% Ownership Exception applies. Proposed regulations do not specifically address whether or how Code section 1248 would apply to dispositions of shares of stock in a foreign corporation that is not a CFC and does not directly engage in the insurance business, but has a subsidiary that is a CFC and that would be taxed as an insurance company if it were a domestic corporation. The Company believes, however, that the application of Code section 1248 under the RPII rules should not apply to the disposition of ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares because Endurance Holdings is not directly engaged in the insurance business. There can be no assurance, however, that the IRS will not interpret the regulations in a contrary manner or that the U.S. Treasury Department will not amend the regulations to provide that these rules will apply to dispositions of our ordinary shares and Series A Preferred Shares. Prospective investors should consult their tax advisors regarding the effects of these rules on a disposition of our shares. Uncertainty as to Application of RPII. Regulations interpreting the RPII provisions of the Code exist only in proposed form. It is not certain whether these regulations will be adopted in their proposed form or what changes might ultimately be made or whether any such changes, as well as any interpretation or application of the RPII rules by the IRS, the courts or otherwise, might have retroactive effect. Accordingly, the meaning of the RPII provisions and their application to Endurance U.K. and Endurance Bermuda is uncertain. These provisions include the grant of authority to the U.S. Treasury to prescribe ‘‘such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this subsection, including regulations preventing the avoidance of this subsection through cross insurance arrangements or otherwise.’’ In addition, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge any determinations by Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda as to the amount, if any, of RPII that should be includible in income or that the amounts of the RPII inclusions will not be subject to adjustment based upon subsequent IRS examination. Prospective investors should consult their tax advisors as to the effects of these uncertainties. Redemption of Series A Preferred Shares. Subject to the discussion herein relating to the application of the RPII and PFIC rules, under Section 302 of the Code, a redemption of the Series A Preferred Shares will be treated as a dividend to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, unless such redemption satisfies the tests set forth under Section 302(b) of the Code, which would treat the redemption as a sale or exchange subject to taxation as described above under ‘‘Dispositions of Ordinary Shares and Series A Preferred Shares.’’ A redemption will be treated as a sale or exchange if: (i) it is ‘‘substantially disproportionate,’’ (ii) constitutes a ‘‘complete termination of the holder's stock interest’’ in us, or (iii) is ‘‘not essentially equivalent to a dividend’’, each within the meaning of Section 302(b) of the Code. In determining whether any of these tests are satisfied, shares considered to be owned by a U.S. Person by reason of certain constructive ownership rules set forth in the Code, as well as shares actually owned, must generally be taken into account. Because the determination as to whether any of the alternative tests of Section 302(b) of the Code is satisfied with respect to a particular holder of the Series A Preferred Shares will depend on the facts and circumstances as of the time the determination is made, U.S. shareholders should consult their tax advisors, at such time, to determine their tax treatment in light of their particular circumstances. Passive Foreign Investment Companies. In general, a foreign corporation will be a PFIC during a given year if (i) 75% or more of its gross income constitutes ‘‘passive income’’ or (ii) 50% or more of its assets produce passive income. 49 If Endurance Holdings were characterized as a PFIC during a given year, U.S. Persons owning ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares would be subject to a penalty tax at the time of the sale at a gain of, or receipt of an ‘‘excess distribution’’ with respect to, their shares, unless such shareholders made a ‘‘qualified electing fund election’’ or ‘‘mark-to-market’’ election. It is uncertain that Endurance Holdings would be able to provide its shareholders with the information necessary for a U.S. Person to make the elections. In general, a shareholder receives an ‘‘excess distribution’’ if the amount of the distribution is more than 125% of the average distribution with respect to the shares during the three preceding taxable years (or shorter period during which the taxpayer held the shares). In general, the penalty tax is equivalent to an interest charge on taxes that are deemed due during the period the shareholder owned the shares, computed by assuming that the excess distribution or gain (in the case of a sale) with respect to the shares was taxed in equal portions at the highest applicable tax rate on ordinary income throughout the shareholder’s period of ownership. The interest charge is equal to the applicable rate imposed on underpayments of U.S. federal income tax for such period. For the above purposes, passive income generally includes interest, dividends, annuities and other investment income. The PFIC statutory provisions, however, contain an express exception for income derived in the active conduct of an insurance business by a corporation which is predominantly engaged in an insurance business. This exception is intended to ensure that income derived by a bona fide insurance company is not treated as passive income, except to the extent such income is attributable to financial reserves in excess of the reasonable needs of the insurance business. Endurance Holdings expects for purposes of the PFIC rules that each of Endurance U.K. and Endurance Bermuda will be predominantly engaged in an insurance business and is unlikely to have financial reserves in excess of the reasonable needs of its insurance business. Accordingly, neither expects to be treated as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. There can be no assurances, however, that this will be the case. The PFIC statutory provisions contain a look-through rule stating that, for purposes of determining whether a foreign corporation is a PFIC, such foreign corporation shall be treated as if it received ‘‘directly its proportionate share of the income . . .’’ and as if it ‘‘held its proportionate share of the assets . . .’’ of any other corporation in which it owns at least 25% by value of the shares. While no explicit guidance is provided by the statutory language, under this look-through rule Endurance Holdings should be deemed to own the assets and to have received the income of its insurance subsidiaries directly for purposes of determining whether it qualifies for the insurance exception. Consequently, Endurance Holdings does not expect to be treated as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This interpretation of the look-through rule is consistent with the legislative intention generally to exclude bona fide insurance companies from the application of PFIC provision. There can be no assurance, however, that the IRS will not challenge this position or that a court will not sustain such challenge. Prospective investors should consult their tax advisor as to the effects of the PFIC rules. Other. Except as discussed below with respect to backup withholding, dividends paid by Endurance Holdings will not be subject to U.S. withholding tax. Information Reporting and Backup Withholding. Information returns may be filed with the IRS in connection with payments of dividends with respect to our ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares and the proceeds from a sale or other disposition of the shares unless the shareholder establishes an exemption from the information reporting rules. A U.S. Person holding our ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares that does not establish such an exemption may be subject to U.S. backup withholding tax on these payments if the holder fails to provide its taxpayer identification number or otherwise comply with the backup withholding rules. The amount of any backup withholding from a payment to a U.S. Person will be allowed as a credit against the U.S. Person's U.S. federal income tax liability and may entitle such person to a refund, provided that the required information is furnished to the IRS. Shareholders Who Are Non-U.S. Persons Dividends and Disposition. In general (and subject to the discussion below under ‘‘Information Reporting and Backup Withholding’’), a Non-U.S. Person will not be subject to U.S. federal income or 50 withholding tax with respect to payments of dividends on, or gain upon the disposition of, our ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares unless (i) the dividends or gain is effectively connected with the conduct by the Non-U.S. Person of a trade or business in the United States or (ii) in the case of gain upon the disposition of shares, the Non-U.S. Person is an individual who is present in the United States for 183 days or more in the taxable year and certain other conditions are met. Nonresident alien individuals will not be subject to U.S. estate tax with respect to our ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares. Dividends or gain that is effectively connected with the conduct by a Non-U.S. Person of a trade or business in the United States generally will be subject to regular U.S. federal income tax in the same manner as if it were realized by a U.S. Person. In addition, if such Non-US. Person is a non-US. corporation, such dividends or gain may be subject to a branch profits tax at a rate of 30% (or such lower rate as is provided by an applicable income tax treaty). Information Reporting and Backup Withholding. If our ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares are held by a Non-U.S. Person through a non-U.S. (and non-U.S. related) broker or financial institution, information reporting and backup withholding generally would not be required. Information reporting, and possibly backup withholding, may apply if the shares are held by a Non-U.S. Person through a U.S. (or U.S. related) broker or financial institution and the Non-U.S. Person fails to provide appropriate information. Non-U.S. Persons should consult their tax advisors concerning the application of the information reporting and backup withholding rules. Proposed U.S. Tax Legislation. Legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Congress intended to eliminate certain perceived tax advantages of companies (including insurance companies) that have legal domiciles outside the United States but have certain U.S. connections. While there are no currently pending legislative proposals which, if enacted, would have a material adverse effect on us or our shareholders, it is possible that broader based legislative proposals could emerge in the future that could have an adverse impact on us or our shareholders. AVAILABLE INFORMATION General information about us, including our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and the charters for the Audit, Compensation, Investment, Nominating and Corporate Governance and Underwriting Committees of our Board of Directors, can be found at www.endurance.bm. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments and exhibits to those reports, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. Any of the above referenced documents can also be obtained in print, free of charge, by contacting Investor Relations at Endurance Specialty Holdings Ltd., Suite No. 784, 48 Par-la-ville Road, Hamilton HM11, Bermuda. Information on our website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K or our other securities filings and is not a part of these filings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company had no outstanding unresolved comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission staff. Item 