D. Risk Factors You should consider each of the following factors as well as other information in and incorporated into this Annual Report in evaluating the Corporation’s business and its prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Corporation faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Corporation or that the Corporation currently considers immaterial may also impair the Corporation’s business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Corporation’s business and financial results could be harmed and the trading price of the Corporation’s common stock could decline. You should also refer to the other information set forth in and incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 20-F, including the Corporation’s consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Risks Related to the Corporation’s Business If PreMD cannot obtain additional financing required to support business growth, it will be unable to fund its continuing operations in the future. To date, PreMD has financed its activities through the issuance of shares, debentures, convertible debentures, product sales, license revenues and the recovery of Canadian federal and provincial refundable scientific investment tax credits (“ITCs”). ITCs are tax credits that PreMD receives from the Canadian federal and provincial governments as a result of conducting applied scientific research in Canada. There can be no assurance that ITCs will continue to be available to PreMD or, if so, at what levels. The Corporation’s ability to continue as a going-concern is uncertain and is dependent upon its ability to raise additional capital to successfully continue operations, complete its research and development programs, commercialize its technologies, obtain regulatory approvals for its products and ultimately, generate profitable operations and positive operating cash flows. The Corporation may also be required to create enough cash to pay the, approximately $10 million principal on the convertible debentures (issued on August 30, 2005) upon maturity in August of 2009. Any conversion of these debentures, exercise of the warrants, or issuance of common shares to pay 4 Table of Contents interest, when permitted, in lieu of using cash, dilutes the interests of the Corporation’s shareholders. Further, the Company has continued to fund its operations through the issuance of debt instruments. On March 12, 2008, the Company issued an additional $1,435,000 of unsecured debentures maturing in September of 2009. There can be no assurance that additional funding will be available or, if available, that it will be available on acceptable terms. If such funding is not available, PreMD may be forced to further reduce or eliminate expenditures relating to specific programs relating to the development, testing, production or marketing of its proposed products, or may have to obtain funds through arrangements with corporate partners that require PreMD to relinquish rights to certain of its technologies or products. It will be necessary for the Corporation to raise additional funds for the continuing development and marketing of its technologies. The Corporation’s consolidated financial statements do not reflect any adjustments and classifications to the carrying values of assets and liabilities that may be required should the Corporation be unable to continue as a going concern. If PreMD is unable to generate significant revenues and become profitable in the near future, its business could fail. To date, PreMD has not generated significant ongoing revenues to offset its research and development costs and operating costs and accordingly has not made an operating profit. PreMD has historically benefited from the inclusion of ITCs in its annual operating results. To date, PreMD has received $2,275,000 in ITCs. Following the termination of the McNeil agreement on December 28, 2006, PreMD marketed PREVU* directly to customers and recorded revenue of $41,000 in 2007. On July 13, 2007, the Corporation signed a license agreement with AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP (“AstraZeneca”) to market and distribute the Corporation’s skin cholesterol test in the United States and received an upfront payment of $533,000 (US$500,000). There is no assurance that sales and license revenues from this agreement will be sufficient to generate a profit for PreMD in the near future and due to the January 2008 non-substantially equivalent letter received from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration regarding the 510(k) submission for an expanded regulatory claim on its point-of-care skin cholesterol test, any potential revenues that may be generated from this agreement will be delayed. PreMD has no experience in marketing products. If PreMD cannot successfully market and cause acceptance of its products, PreMD will be unable to execute its business plan. PreMD has no experience in marketing its products and has developed a strategy to out-license the marketing to one or more partners, such as major diagnostic or pharmaceutical companies. On December 28, 2006, PreMD re-acquired the exclusive marketing and distribution rights subsequent to McNeil’s termination of their agreements. On July 13, 2007, the Corporation signed a license agreement with AstraZeneca to market and distribute the Corporation’s skin cholesterol test in the United States. PreMD plans to market the tests in the rest of the world through additional licenses. If PreMD relies on third parties to market its products, the commercial success of such products may be outside of its control. Moreover, there can be no assurance that providers, payers or patients will accept PreMD’s products, even if they prove to be safe and effective and are allowed for marketing by the Canadian Health Protection Branch (the “HPB”), United States Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”) and other regulatory authorities. PreMD’s ability to achieve significant market share for each of its products could be affected by reimbursement difficulties with government agencies and third-party insurers, which could hamper the speed with which PreMD’s products are adopted by the medical community and by the public. Market penetration of PreMD’s products will be influenced by factors including the cost-effectiveness and the overall economic benefits that they offer. Regulatory agencies may deny, delay or seek additional information for applications regarding the use or implementation of the Corporation’s products, which may impede the development or commercialization of the Corporation’s products. For example, on January 15, 2008, the Corporation received a non-substantially equivalent (“NSE”) letter from the U.S. FDA regarding the 510(k) submission for an expanded regulatory claim on its point-of-care (“POC”) skin cholesterol test. On April 10, 2008, the FDA denied the Company’s appeal. The Corporation is continuing to explore several avenues to obtain FDA clearance for this product. 5 Table of Contents PreMD’s success depends in part on obtaining and maintaining meaningful patent protection on our products and technologies. The protection offered by PreMD’s patents and patent applications may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by our competitors, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain or maintain patent protection for our products or product candidates. For example, in August 2004, PreMD learned that two of its U.S. patents had been listed as abandoned by the United States Patent and Trademark Office (the “U.S. PTO”) for failure to pay maintenance fees. The failure to pay these maintenance fees occurred when the files were transferred between U.S. and Canadian patent agents. PreMD filed a petition for reinstatement of the patents. In response to this petition, in February 2005 the U.S. PTO identified specific items that PreMD should address, specifically regarding the credentials and procedures of PreMD’s patent agents and their performance of clerical functions related to the payment of the maintenance fees. In June 2005, PreMD filed a request for consideration. On December 23, 2005, the U.S. PTO notified PreMD of its decision not to reinstate the two patents. PreMD has authorized legal action against the law firm that was responsible for managing its patent portfolio at the time when the maintenance fees for the two patents in question should have been paid. The U.S. PTO found that the patents lapsed as a result of the law firm’s failure to use its established docketing procedures regarding payment of the maintenance fees. PreMD’s petition to reinstate two of its U.S. patents was denied by the U.S. PTO and, accordingly, we could face additional competition from companies seeking to exploit the intellectual property that was previously covered by these patents. The claim for damages was outstanding as at December 31, 2007. PreMD may be required to obtain licenses under patents or other proprietary rights of third parties. No assurance can be given that any licenses required under any such patents or proprietary rights will be available on terms acceptable to the Corporation or that such licenses will be available at all. To the extent PreMD does not own intellectual property required for the development of its products, it may be required to obtain licenses under patents or other proprietary rights of third parties. No assurance can be given that any licenses required under any such patents or proprietary rights will be available on terms acceptable to PreMD or that such licenses will be available at all. If PreMD does not obtain such licenses, it could encounter delays in introducing one or more of its products to the market while it attempts to design around such patents, or could find that the development, manufacture or sale of products requiring such licenses could be foreclosed. In addition, PreMD could incur substantial costs in defending itself in suits brought against it on such patents or in suits in which PreMD attempts to enforce its own patents against other parties. Also, PreMD could be liable for damages or an accounting of profits if it were unsuccessful in defending itself in a suit for infringement of a patent. See “Business Overview—Patent and Proprietary Protection”. PreMD relies on third parties to manufacture some of its products and any delay or mistake on the part of such manufacturers could result in cancelled orders and a loss of revenues for PreMD. PreMD relies on third parties to manufacture and formulate some of its products for clinical trials and for eventual commercial sale. Currently, PreMD’s skin cholesterol products are manufactured by Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. and Southmedic Inc., and Jabil Circuit, Inc. manufactures the cordless, hand-held color measurement instrument used in connection with the tests. PreMD’s other products, relating to its cancer technologies, are all manufactured (for clinical trial purposes) by PreMD itself in its laboratory located at McMaster University Medical Center. The ability to ensure a continued supply of products on a timely basis is not entirely within PreMD’s control. If PreMD cannot obtain materials in a timely fashion, the progress of its clinical trials and product sales will be negatively affected. 6 Table of Contents PreMD faces potential risks of product liability which may divert funding from ongoing operations and harm operating results. The sale and use of products under development by PreMD entails risk of product liability. PreMD has also agreed to indemnify numerous clinical trial sites, including The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, St. Michael’s Hospital, St. Paul’s Hospital, St. Joseph’s Hospital, The Hamilton General Hospital, University of California, University Health Network (Princess Margaret Hospital), Hamilton Health Sciences Corporation, University of Wisconsin Medical School, Johns Hopkins University Medical Center, and AtheroGenics, Inc. as well as AstraZeneca under their respective clinical trial and/or marketing agreements for such liability. PreMD maintains product liability insurance relating to the clinical trials that it conducts on its technologies, and believe that such insurance would be reasonably adequate to cover any torts claims that may arise against PreMD at present. PreMD’s insurance coverage also includes the commercial sale of PreMD’s products in the relevant territories. In addition, PreMD maintains property, commercial general liability and tenant’s legal liability insurance. As PreMD expands, there can be no assurance that it will be able to obtain appropriate levels of product liability insurance prior to any use of its products in clinical trials or for commercial sale. An inability to maintain insurance on economically feasible terms or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could inhibit or prevent the commercialization of products developed by PreMD. The obligation to pay any product liability claim, or finance the costs of a recall of a product, could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and future prospects of PreMD. The loss of any key employee could impair PreMD’s ability to execute its business plan. PreMD’s ability to develop products will depend, to a great extent, on its ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense. PreMD is highly dependent on the principal members of its management and scientific staff and the loss of their services might impede the development objectives. The persons working with PreMD are affected by a number of influences outside of the control of PreMD. While PreMD believes that it has been successful to date in employee retention, PreMD may not be able to continue to attract and keep employees critical to its business. PreMD is exposed to financial market risks such as interest rates and Canadian and non-Canadian exchange fluctuations. PreMD is exposed to market risk related to changes in interest and currency exchange rates, each of which could adversely affect the value of our current assets and liabilities. Our cash is invested in short-term, high-grade securities with varying maturities. Since PreMD’s intention is to hold these securities to maturity, adverse changes in interest rates would not have a material effect on PreMD’s results of operations. PreMD also makes commitments with foreign suppliers for clinical trials and other services. Adverse changes in foreign exchange rates could increase the costs of these services. Changes in the rate of currency exchange exchange could also affect our ability to repay the convertible debentures issued in August 2005 since they are repayable in U.S. dollars on maturity in August 2009. Investors may encounter difficulties in enforcing civil liabilities against the Corporation in the United States. The Corporation is a Canadian corporation and a subsidiary, PreMD International Inc. is a Swiss corporation. Substantially all of the assets of the Corporation or its subsidiaries are located in either Canada or in Switzerland and similarly, all of the executive officers, a majority of the directors of the Corporation and a majority of the experts named in this Annual Report also reside in Canada. As a result, it may be difficult for an investor to effect service of process within the United States upon the Corporation or its subsidiary, or upon such directors, executive officers and experts. Execution by U.S. courts of any judgment obtained against the Corporation, its subsidiary, or its directors or executive officers or the experts named in this Annual Report in U.S. courts would be limited to the assets of the Corporation or of such persons, as the case may be, in the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability in Canada or in Switzerland of U.S. judgments or liabilities in original actions in Canadian or Swiss courts predicated solely upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. 7 Table of Contents We may be subject to litigation and our affirmative litigation efforts may not succeed. On January 5, 2007, the Corporation settled litigation relating to the ColorectAlert™ License Agreements. Under the terms of the settlement with Dr. Shamsuddin and Med-11 AG, the Corporation agreed to pay $175,000 to Med-11 AG (“Med-11”) and amended the agreements to replace Dr. Shamsuddin with Med-11 as the licensor. There is no assurance that litigation similar to this will not arise from time to time, thereby distracting management and causing the Corporation to incur costs and time on items not related to the Corporation’s business plan. As discussed above, in August 2004, PreMD learned that two of its U.S. patents had been listed as abandoned by the U.S. PTO, and although the U.S. PTO found that the abandoned patents lapsed as a result of the law firm’s failure to use its established docketing procedures regarding payment of the maintenance fees, the claim for damages was outstanding as at December 31, 2007, and there is no assurance that PreMD will be successful in the pursuit of monetary damages regarding this claim. Risks Related to the Corporation’s Industry Any inability by PreMD to develop its products and comply with government regulations may hinder or prevent the development and sale of PreMD’s products. Prospects for emerging companies in the human diagnostics industry generally may be regarded as uncertain given the inherent nature of the industry and, accordingly, investments in such companies should be regarded as speculative. To achieve profitable operations, PreMD, alone or with others, must successfully develop, introduce, secure regulatory clearance for, and market its products. Securing regulatory clearances for the marketing of diagnostics products from the HPB in Canada and the FDA in the U.S. can be a long and expensive process, which can delay product development. In this regard, PreMD has identified a U.S.-based regulatory affairs consultant to advise PreMD on its regulatory applications. In order to obtain regulatory approval for a particular product, human clinical trials conducted by PreMD must demonstrate that the product is safe for human use and shows efficacy. Unsatisfactory results obtained from a particular study relating to a program may cause PreMD to abandon its commitment to that program. No assurances can be provided that any future human trials, if undertaken, will yield favorable results or that regulatory approval will be granted at all. In addition, if PreMD obtains regulatory approval for a product it may only be for limited applications, thereby hindering PreMD’s ability to widely market a product. Such events would have a material adverse effect on PreMD’s sales and profitability. Intense competition in the diagnostics industry may harm PreMD’s ability to license and develop its products. Technological competition in the diagnostics industry is intense. PreMD competes with other companies to license and develop products aimed at diagnosing similar conditions. Many of these companies have substantially greater resources than PreMD. PreMD may not be able to continue to license the technology that it needs to stay competitive. Further, technological developments by others may render PreMD’s products or technologies non-competitive. See “Business Overview – Coronary Artery Disease Risk Assessment,” “Business Overview - Colorectal Cancer Tests,” “Business Overview – Lung Cancer Test,” “Business Overview – Breast Cancer Test,” “Business Overview - Competition” and “Business Overview - Patents and Proprietary Protection.” PreMD may not be able to obtain reimbursement for its products as governments attempt to control rising healthcare costs. Reimbursement for new products has come under scrutiny in an effort to control rising health care costs. In addition to research into a product’s safety and efficacy, research must also be carried out to demonstrate cost-effectiveness for reimbursement purposes. This information is required for either government (Canada or E.U.) or third-party insurer purposes (U.S.). Failure to achieve enlistment in reimbursement schedules can have a dramatic impact on a product’s market penetration in the professional or laboratory market. Recent policy initiatives in both the U.S. and Canada have advocated broader screening for the risk of cardiovascular disease and cancer. As a result, medical devices for screening and/or risk assessment for these types of disease may face an increased market potential. PreMD may need to develop economic studies to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of its products in identifying the risk of disease at an earlier stage. 8 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Corporation’s Common Stock PreMD could fail to maintain minimum listing standards for its securities On April 24, 2007, the Company was notified by the American Stock Exchange (“AMEX”) that it was below certain of the AMEX’s continued listing standards relating to minimum levels of shareholders’ equity. On June 15, 2007, the AMEX accepted the Company’s plan to regain compliance and continued the listing of the Company’s shares pursuant to an extension ending on October 24, 2008. Failure to make progress consistent with the plan or to regain compliance with the continued listing standards by the end of the extension period could result in the Company being delisted from AMEX. Subsequent to the year end, on February 7, 2008, the Company provided an amended plan to the AMEX to reflect current conditions. PreMD does not anticipate paying dividends on its common shares, which may affect investors who require a certain amount of liquidity on their investment. PreMD does not intend to pay dividends on its common shares in the foreseeable future, and thus the only return on an investment in the common shares will come from an increase, if any, in the price of the common shares. Investors who require dividend income should not depend on or expect to receive dividends on the common shares. PreMD’s performance and general market volatility may cause the price of the common shares to decrease. The volatility of PreMD’s share price may affect the trading market for PreMD’s common shares. There can be no assurance that an active trading market for the common shares will be sustained. Our share price could fluctuate significantly in the future for a number of reasons, including, among others, future announcements concerning PreMD, quarterly variations in operating results, the introduction of competitive products, reports of results of clinical trials, regulatory developments, and intellectual property developments. In addition, stock markets, in general, and the market for shares of biotechnology and life science companies, in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years that may be unrelated to the operating performance or prospects of the affected companies. These broad market fluctuations may affect the market price of PreMD’s common shares. The common shares are speculative securities. If PreMD performs poorly in the marketing, manufacturing or sales of its products or in other areas of its business as highlighted in this section, it may cause the market price of the common shares to decline. In addition, there can be no assurance that an active trading market for the common shares will be sustained or that the trading price of the common shares will not be subject to significant fluctuations. Accordingly, an investment should be considered only by those investors who are able to make a long-term investment and can afford to suffer a total loss of their investment in the common shares. An investor should consider the merits of an investment in the common shares and should consult professional advisers to assess income tax, legal and other aspects of such an investment. 