Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors and all other information contained in this report should be considered carefully when evaluating us. These risk factors could affect our actual results. Other risks and uncertainties, in addition to those that are described below, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be affected materially and adversely. In that case, we may be unable to make distributions to our unitholders and the trading price of our common units could decline. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other detailed information concerning us set forth in our accompanying financial statements and notes and contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included herein. Acquisitions typically increase our debt and subject us to other substantial risks, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our future financial performance will depend, in part, on our ability to make acquisitions of assets and businesses at attractive prices. From time to time, we will evaluate and seek to acquire assets or businesses that we believe complement our existing business and related assets. We may acquire assets or businesses that we plan to use in a manner materially different from their prior owner’s use. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including: • the inability to integrate the operations of acquired businesses or assets; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; 14 Table of Contents • the loss of customers or key employees from the acquired businesses; • a significant increase in our indebtedness; and • potential environmental or regulatory liabilities and title problems. Management’s assessment of these risks is necessarily inexact and may not reveal or resolve all existing or potential problems associated with an acquisition. Realization of any of these risks could adversely affect our operations and cash flows. If we consummate any future acquisition, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and you will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources. We continue to consider large acquisition candidates and transactions. The integration, financial and other risks discussed above will be amplified if the size of our future acquisitions increases. Our acquisition strategy is based, in part, on our expectation of ongoing divestitures of gas processing and transportation assets by large industry participants. A material decrease in such divestitures will limit our opportunities for future acquisitions and could adversely affect our growth plans. We are vulnerable to operational, regulatory and other risks associated with South Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico, including the effects of adverse weather conditions such as hurricanes, because we have a significant portion of our assets located in South Louisiana. Our operations and revenues will be significantly impacted by conditions in South Louisiana because we have a significant portion of our assets located in South Louisiana. This concentration of activity make us more vulnerable than many of our competitors to the risks associated with Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico, including: • adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms; • delays or decreases in production, the availability of equipment, facilities or services; and • changes in the regulatory environment. Because a significant portion of our operations could experience the same condition at the same time, these conditions could have a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other midstream companies who have operations in a more diversified geographic area. In addition, our operations in South Louisiana are dependent upon continued deep shelf drilling in the Gulf of Mexico. The deep shelf in the Gulf of Mexico is an area that has had limited historical drilling activity. This is due, in part, to its geological complexity and depth. Deep shelf development is more expensive and inherently more risky than conventional shelf drilling. A decline in the level of deep shelf drilling in the Gulf of Mexico could have a adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our profitability is dependent upon prices and market demand for natural gas and NGLs, which are beyond our control and have been volatile. We are subject to significant risks due to fluctuations in commodity prices. These risks are based upon three components of our business: (1) we purchase certain volumes of natural gas at a price that is a percentage of a relevant index; (2) certain processing contracts for our Gregory system and our Plaquemine and Gibson processing plants expose us to natural gas and NGL commodity price risks; and (3) part of our fees from our Conroe and Seminole gas plants as well as those acquired in the El Paso Acquisition are based on a portion of the NGLs produced, and, therefore, is subject to commodity price risks. The margins we realize from purchasing and selling a portion of the natural gas that we transport through our pipeline systems decrease in periods of low natural gas prices because our gross margins related to such purchases are based on a percentage of the index price. For the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005, we purchased approximately 9% and 7.5% respectively, of our gas at a percentage of relevant index. Accordingly, a decline in the price of natural gas could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. 15 Table of Contents A portion of our profitability is affected by the relationship between natural gas and NGL prices. For a component of our Gregory system and our Plaquemine plant and Gibson plant volumes, we purchase natural gas, process natural gas and extract NGLs, and then sell the processed natural gas and NGLs. A portion of our profits from the plants acquired in the El Paso Acquisition is dependent on NGL prices and elections by us and the producers. In cases where we process gas for producers when they have the ability to decide whether to process their gas, we may elect to receive a processing fee or we may retain and sell the NGLs and keep the producer whole on its sale of natural gas. Since we extract energy content, which we measure in Btus, from the gas stream in the form of the liquids or consume it as fuel during processing, we reduce the Btu content of the natural gas. Accordingly, our margins under these arrangements can be negatively affected in periods in which the value of natural gas is high relative to the value of NGLs. In the past, the prices of natural gas and NGLs have been extremely volatile and we expect this volatility to continue. For example, in 2004, the NYMEX settlement price for natural gas for the prompt month contract ranged from a high of $7.98 per MMBtu to a low of $5.08 per MMBtu. In 2005, the same index ranged from $13.91 per MMBtu to $6.12 per MMBtu. A composite of the OPIS Mt. Belvieu monthly average liquids price based upon our average liquids composition in 2004 ranged from a high of approximately $0.98 per gallon to a low of approximately $0.66 per gallon. In 2005, the same composite ranged from approximately $1.16 per gallon to approximately $0.80 per gallon. We may not be successful in balancing our purchases and sales. In addition, a producer could fail to deliver contracted volumes or deliver in excess of contracted volumes, or a consumer could purchase less than contracted volumes. Any of these actions could cause our purchases and sales not to be balanced. If our purchases and sales are not balanced, we will face increased exposure to commodity price risks and could have increased volatility in our operating income. The markets and prices for residue gas and NGLs depend upon factors beyond our control. These factors include demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs, which fluctuate with changes in market and economic conditions and other factors, including: • the impact of weather on the demand for oil and natural gas; • the level of domestic oil and natural gas production; • the level of domestic industrial and manufacturing activity; • the availability of imported oil and natural gas; • actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations; • the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems; • the availability and marketing of competitive fuels; • the impact of energy conservation efforts; and • the extent of governmental regulation and taxation. We must continually compete for natural gas supplies, and any decrease in our supplies of natural gas could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to maintain or increase the throughput on our systems by accessing new natural gas supplies to offset the natural decline in reserves, our business and financial results could be materially, adversely affected. In addition, our future growth will depend, in part, upon whether we can contract for additional supplies at a greater rate than the rate of natural decline in our currently connected supplies. In order to maintain or increase throughput levels in our natural gas gathering systems and asset utilization rates at our treating and processing plants, we must continually contract for new natural gas supplies. We may not be able to obtain additional contracts for natural gas supplies. The primary factors affecting our ability to connect new wells to our gathering facilities include our success in contracting for existing natural gas supplies that are not committed to other systems and the level of drilling activity near our gathering systems. Fluctuations in energy 16 Table of Contents prices can greatly affect production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. Drilling activity generally decreases as oil and natural gas prices decrease. Tax policy changes could have a negative impact on drilling activity, reducing supplies of natural gas available to our systems. We have no control over producers and depend on them to maintain sufficient levels of drilling activity. A material decrease in natural gas production or in the level of drilling activity in our principal geographic areas for a prolonged period, as a result of depressed commodity prices or otherwise, likely would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. A substantial portion of our assets is connected to natural gas reserves that will decline over time, and the cash flows associated with those assets will decline accordingly. A substantial portion of our assets, including our gathering systems and our treating plants, is dedicated to certain natural gas reserves and wells for which the production will naturally decline over time. Accordingly, our cash flows associated with these assets will also decline. If we are unable to access new supplies of natural gas either by connecting additional reserves to our existing assets or by constructing or acquiring new assets that have access to additional natural gas reserves, our cash flows may decline. Growing our business by constructing new pipelines and processing and treating facilities subjects us to construction risks, risks that natural gas supplies will not be available upon completion of the facilities and risks of construction delay and additional costs due to obtaining rights-of-way. One of the ways we intend to grow our business is through the construction of additions to our existing gathering systems and construction of new pipelines and gathering, processing and treating facilities. The construction of pipelines and gathering, processing and treating facilities requires the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, which may exceed our expectations. Generally, we may have only limited natural gas supplies committed to these facilities prior to their construction. Moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which anticipated production growth does not materialize. We may also rely on estimates of proved reserves in our decision to construct new pipelines and facilities, which may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough natural gas to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we face the risks of construction delay and additional costs due to obtaining rights-of-way. We have limited control over the development of certain assets because we are not the operator. As the owner of non-operating interests in the Seminole and Blue Water gas processing plants, we do not have the right to direct or control the operation of the plants. As a result, the success of the activities conducted at these plants, which are operated by a third party, may be affected by factors outside of our control. The failure of the third-party operator to make decisions, perform its services, discharge its obligations, deal with regulatory agencies or comply with laws, rules and regulations affecting these plants, including environmental laws and regulations, in a proper manner could result in material adverse consequences to our interest and adversely affect our results of operations. We expect to encounter significant competition in any new geographic areas into which we seek to expand and our ability to enter such markets may be limited. As we expand our operations into new geographic areas, we expect to encounter significant competition for natural gas supplies and markets. Competitors in these new markets will include companies larger than us, which have both lower capital costs and greater geographic coverage, as well as smaller companies, which have lower total cost structures. As a result, we may not be able to successfully develop acquired assets and markets located in new geographic areas and our results of operations could be adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers and counterparties, and a general increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by our customers could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks of nonpayment and nonperformance by our customers are a major concern in our business. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. Any increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by our customers could adversely affect our results of operations. We may not be able to retain existing customers or acquire new customers, which would reduce our revenues and limit our future profitability. The renewal or replacement of existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including competition from other pipelines, and the price of, and demand for, natural gas in the markets we serve. For the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 74% of our sales of gas which were transported using our physical facilities were to industrial end-users and utilities. As a consequence of the increase in competition in the industry and volatility of natural gas prices, end-users and utilities are reluctant to enter into long-term purchase contracts. Many end-users purchase natural gas from more than one natural gas company and have the ability to change providers at any time. Some of these end-users also have the ability to switch between gas and alternate fuels in response to relative price fluctuations in the market. Because there are numerous companies of greatly varying size and financial capacity that compete with us in the marketing of natural gas, we often compete in the end-user and utilities markets primarily on the basis of price. The inability of our management to renew or replace our current contracts as they expire and to respond appropriately to changing market conditions could have a negative effect on our profitability. We depend on certain key customers, and the loss of any key customer could adversely affect financial results. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from contracts with key customers. To the extent that these and other customers may reduce volumes of natural gas purchased under existing contracts, we would be adversely affected unless we were able to make comparably profitable arrangements with other customers. Agreements with key customers provide for minimum volumes of natural gas that each customer must purchase until the expiration of the term of the applicable agreement, subject to certain force majeure provisions. Customers may default on their obligations to purchase the minimum volumes required under the applicable agreements. Our business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. Our operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the gathering, compressing, treating and processing of natural gas and storage of residue gas, including: • damage to pipelines, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, floods, fires and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism; • inadvertent damage from construction and farm equipment; • leaks of natural gas, NGLs and other hydrocarbons; and • fires and explosions. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage and may result in curtailment or suspension of our related operations. Our operations are concentrated in Texas, Louisiana and the Mississippi Gulf Coast, and a natural disaster or other hazard affecting this region could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are not fully insured against all risks incident to our business. In accordance with typical industry practice, we do not have any property insurance on any of our underground pipeline systems that would cover damage to the pipelines. We are not insured against all environmental accidents that might occur, other than those 18 Table of Contents considered to be sudden and accidental. Our business interruption insurance covers only our Gregory processing plant. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, it could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. The threat of terrorist attacks has resulted in increased costs, and future war or risk of war may adversely impact our results of operations and our ability to raise capital. Terrorist attacks or the threat of terrorist attacks cause instability in the global financial markets and other industries, including the energy industry. Uncertainty surrounding retaliatory military strikes or a sustained military campaign may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities, including pipelines, production facilities, and transmission and distribution facilities, could be direct targets, or indirect casualties, of an act of terror. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism, the war in Iraq or future developments could also affect our ability to raise capital. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to the threat of terrorist attacks have made certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. Our insurance policies now generally exclude acts of terrorism. Such insurance is not available at what we believe to be acceptable pricing levels. A lower level of economic activity could also result in a decline in energy consumption, which could adversely affect our revenues or restrict our future growth. Federal, state or local regulatory measures could adversely affect our business. While the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or FERC, generally does not regulate any of our operations, directly or indirectly, it influences certain aspects of our business and the market for our products. As a raw natural gas gatherer, we generally are exempt from FERC regulation under the Natural Gas Act of 1938, or NGA, but FERC regulation still significantly affects our business. In recent years, FERC has pursued pro-competitive policies in its regulation of interstate natural gas pipelines. However, we cannot assure you that FERC will continue this approach as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to natural gas transportation capacity. Some of our intrastate natural gas transmission pipelines are subject to regulation as a common carrier and as a gas utility by the Texas Railroad Commission, or TRRC. The TRRC’s jurisdiction extends to both rates and pipeline safety. The rates we charge for transportation services are deemed just and reasonable under Texas law unless challenged in a complaint. Should a complaint be filed or should regulation become more active, our business may be adversely affected. Other state and local regulations also affect our business. We are subject to ratable take and common purchaser statutes in the states where we operate. Ratable take statutes generally require gatherers to take, without undue discrimination, natural gas production that may be tendered to the gatherer for handling. Similarly, common purchaser statutes generally require gatherers to purchase without undue discrimination as to source of supply or producer. These statutes have the effect of restricting our right as an owner of gathering facilities to decide with whom we contract to purchase or transport natural gas. Federal law leaves any economic regulation of natural gas gathering to the states, and some of the states in which we operate have adopted complaint-based or other limited economic regulation of natural gas gathering activities. States in which we operate that have adopted some form of complaint-based regulation, like Oklahoma and Texas, generally allow natural gas producers and shippers to file complaints with state regulators in an effort to resolve grievances relating to natural gas gathering access and rate discrimination. The states in which we conduct operations administer federal pipeline safety standards under the Pipeline Safety Act of 1968. The “rural gathering exemption” under the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968 presently exempts substantial portions of our gathering facilities from jurisdiction under that statute, including those portions located outside of cities, towns, or any area designated as residential or commercial, such as a subdivision or shopping center. The “rural gathering exemption,” however, may be restricted in the future, and it does not apply to our natural gas transmission pipelines. In response to recent pipeline accidents in other parts of the country, Congress and the Department of Transportation have passed or are considering heightened pipeline safety requirements. 19 Table of Contents Compliance with pipeline integrity regulations issued by the TRRC, or those issued by the United States Department of Transportation, or DOT, in December of 2003 could result in substantial expenditures for testing, repairs and replacement. TRRC regulations require periodic testing of all intrastate pipelines meeting certain size and location requirements. Our costs relating to compliance with the required testing under the TRRC regulations were approximately $0.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 and $1.9 million in 2004 and we expect the costs for compliance with TRRC and DOT regulations to be $2.4 million in the aggregate during 2006 and 2007. If our pipelines fail to meet the safety standards mandated by the TRRC or the DOT regulations, then we may be required to repair or replace sections of such pipelines, the cost of which cannot be estimated at this time. Our business involves hazardous substances and may be adversely affected by environmental regulation. Many of the operations and activities of our gathering systems, plants and other facilities, including the natural gas and processing liquids business in South Louisiana recently acquired from El Paso, are subject to significant federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations impose obligations related to air emissions and discharge of pollutants from our facilities and the cleanup of hazardous substances and other wastes that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or locations to which we have sent wastes for treatment or disposal. Various governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with these regulations and the permits issued under them, and violators are subject to administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, injunctions or both. Strict, joint and several liability may be incurred under these laws and regulations for the remediation of contaminated areas. Private parties, including the owners of properties through which our gathering systems pass, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. There is inherent risk of the incurrence of significant environmental costs and liabilities in our business due to our handling of natural gas and other petroleum products, air emissions related to our operations, historical industry operations, waste disposal practices and the prior use of natural gas flow meters containing mercury. In addition, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. We may incur material environmental costs and liabilities. Furthermore, our insurance may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against us. Our business may be adversely affected by increased costs due to stricter pollution control requirements or liabilities resulting from non-compliance with required operating or other regulatory permits. New environmental regulations might adversely affect our products and activities, including processing, storage and transportation, as well as waste management and air emissions. Federal and state agencies could also impose additional safety requirements, any of which could affect our profitability. Our use of derivative financial instruments has in the past and could in the future result in financial losses or reduce our income. We use over-the-counter price and basis swaps with other natural gas merchants and financial institutions, and we use futures and option contracts traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Use of these instruments is intended to reduce our exposure to short-term volatility in commodity prices. We could incur financial losses or fail to recognize the full value of a market opportunity as a result of volatility in the market values of the underlying commodities or if one of our counterparties fails to perform under a contract. Due to our lack of asset diversification, adverse developments in our gathering, transmission, treating, processing and commercial services businesses would materially impact our financial condition. We rely exclusively on the revenues generated from our gathering, transmission, treating, processing and commercial services businesses, and as a result our financial condition depends upon prices of, and continued demand for, natural gas and NGLs. Due to our lack of asset diversification, an adverse development in one of these businesses would have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition and results of operations than if we maintained more diverse assets. 20 Table of Contents Our success depends on key members of our management, the loss or replacement of whom could disrupt our business operations. We depend on the continued employment and performance of the officers of the general partner of our general partner and key operational personnel. The general partner of our general partner has entered into employment agreements with each of its executive officers. If any of these officers or other key personnel resign or become unable to continue in their present roles and are not adequately replaced, our business operations could be materially adversely affected. We do not maintain any “key man” life insurance for any officers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We do not have any unresolved staff comments. 