Item 1A: Risk Factors RISK FACTORS This annual report on Form 10-K and the documents we incorporate by reference in this report contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Other than statements of historical fact, all statements that we include in this report and in the documents we incorporate by reference may be deemed to be forward-looking statements for purposes of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act. Such forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “could,” “estimates,” “expects,” “guidance,” “intends,” “may,” “outlook,” “plans,” “projects,” “seeks,” “will,” or similar words or expressions. Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully read and consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information we include or incorporate by reference in this report and the information in the other reports we file with the SEC. Such risk factors should be considered not only with regard to the information contained in this annual report, but also with regard to the information and statements in the other periodic or current reports we file with the SEC, as well as our press releases, presentations to securities analysts or investors, or other communications made by or with the approval of one of our executive officers. We cannot guarantee that we will actually achieve the results contemplated or disclosed in our forward-looking statements. Such statements may turn out to be wrong due to the inherent uncertainties associated with future events. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s analyses, judgments, beliefs, or expectations only as of the date they are made. If any of the events described in the following risk factors actually occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, or prospects could be materially adversely affected. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently deem immaterial may also become important factors that may materially affect us. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to address or update forward-looking statements in future filings or communications regarding our business or operating results, and do not undertake to address how any of these factors may have caused results to differ from discussions or information contained in previous filings or communications. Our profitability depends on our ability to accurately predict and effectively manage our medical care costs. Our profitability depends to a significant degree on our ability to accurately predict and effectively manage our medical care costs. Historically, our medical care cost ratio, meaning our medical care costs as a percentage of our premium revenue, has fluctuated substantially, and has also varied across our state health plans. Because the premium payments we receive are generally fixed in advance and we operate with a narrow profit margin, relatively small changes in our medical care cost ratio can create significant changes in our overall financial results. For 13 Table of Contents example, if our overall medical care ratio for 2008 of 84.8% had been one percentage point higher, or 85.8%, our earnings for 2008 would have been $1.60 per diluted share rather than our actual 2008 earnings of $2.25 per diluted share, a 29% reduction in our earnings. Factors that may affect our medical care costs include the level of utilization of health care services, increases in hospital costs, an increased incidence or acuity of high dollar claims related to catastrophic illnesses or medical conditions such as hemophilia for which we do not have adequate reinsurance coverage, increased maternity costs, payment rates that are not actuarially sound, changes in state eligibility certification methodologies, unexpected patterns in the annual flu season, relatively low levels of hospital and specialty provider competition in certain geographic areas, increases in the cost of pharmaceutical products and services, changes in health care regulations and practices, epidemics, new medical technologies, and other various external factors. Many of these factors are beyond our control and could reduce our ability to accurately predict and effectively manage the costs of providing health care services. The inability to forecast and manage our medical care costs or to establish and maintain a satisfactory medical care cost ratio, either with respect to a particular state health plan or across the consolidated entity, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. For additional information regarding this risk, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies.” A failure to accurately estimate incurred but not reported medical care costs may negatively impact our results of operations. Because of the time lag between when medical services are actually rendered by our providers and when we receive, process, and pay a claim for those medical services, we must continually estimate our medical claims liability at particular points in time, and establish claims reserves related to such estimates. Our estimated reserves for such “incurred but not paid,” or IBNP medical care costs, are based on numerous assumptions. We estimate our medical claims liabilities using actuarial methods based on historical data adjusted for claims receipt and payment experience (and variations in that experience), changes in membership, provider billing practices, health care service utilization trends, cost trends, product mix, seasonality, prior authorization of medical services, benefit changes, known outbreaks of disease or increased incidence of illness such as influenza, provider contract changes, changes to Medicaid fee schedules, and the incidence of high dollar or catastrophic claims. Our ability to accurately estimate claims for our newer health plans in Florida and Missouri is impacted by the more limited claims payment history of those health plans. Likewise, our ability to accurately estimate claims for our newer lines of business or populations, such as with respect to Medicare Advantage or aged, blind or disabled Medicaid members, is impacted by the more limited experience we have had with those populations. Finally, with regard to the new Medicaid and CHIP members we expect to enroll in 2009 through organic growth due primarily to the recession, new members may be disproportionately costly due to high utilization in their first several months of Medicaid or CHIP membership as a result of their previously having been uninsured and therefore not seeking or deferring medical treatment. The IBNR estimation methods we use and the resulting reserves that we establish are reviewed and updated, and adjustments, if deemed necessary, are reflected in the current period. Given the numerous uncertainties inherent in such estimates, our actual claims liabilities for a particular quarter or other period could differ significantly from the amounts estimated and reserved for that quarter or period. Our actual claims liabilities have varied and will continue to vary from our estimates, particularly in times of significant changes in utilization, medical cost trends, and populations and markets served. If our actual liability for claims payments is higher than estimated, our earnings per share in any particular quarter or annual period could be negatively affected. Our estimates of IBNP may be inadequate in the future, which would negatively affect our results of operations for the relevant time period. Furthermore, if we are unable to accurately estimate IBNP, our ability to take timely corrective actions may be limited, further exacerbating the extent of the negative impact on our results. For additional information regarding this risk, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies.” 14 Table of Contents The 2008-’09 recession and resulting pressures on state budgets may result in funding for Medicaid or CHIP that does not keep pace with the growth in member enrollment. As a result of the current recession and rising unemployment levels, overall Medicaid enrollment and Medicaid costs are projected to increase in 2009. In addition, the federal government recently approved a significant expansion of the CHIP program, which should lead to increased CHIP enrollment and costs. However, most state governments are currently facing significant budget shortfalls for their 2009 and 2010 fiscal years. These budget pressures have already caused many states to cut their spending, to tap into their budget reserves, and to seek to raise revenues in order to balance their budgets. Because governmental health care programs account for such a large portion of state budgets, efforts to contain overall government spending and to achieve a balanced budget often result in significant political pressure being directed at the funding for these health care programs. With the exception of the relatively small portion of our revenues which come from Medicare, nearly all of our premium revenues are derived from the joint federal and state funding of the Medicaid and CHIP programs. Thus, the completeness of the funding under our various state contracts, or the rate increases we expect to receive during the course of a year, can be jeopardized during times of state budget crises. All of the states in which we currently operate our health plans — with the sole exception of Texas — are currently facing significant budgetary pressures. In recognition of this problem and to help ease the pressure caused by shortfalls in state budgets, the federal government enacted on February 17, 2009 the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. As part of this legislation, the federal government increased the amount of funding for federal Medicaid matching by approximately $87 billion for the period between October 1, 2008 and December 31, 2010. The actual matching percentage is computed from a formula that takes into account the average per capita income for each state relative to the national average, and a state’s unemployment rate. As a result of the passage of this legislation, the share of Medicaid costs that are paid for by the federal government will go up, and the share of costs that are paid for by the states will go down. However, in order for states to receive these increased federal matching funds, they must first budget for and actually spend their own state dollars to cover their additional Medicaid and CHIP members. Medicaid spending will therefore be driven by states’ available revenues. State governments may have insufficient funds in order to fully fund these programs or provide for expanded enrollment. As a result, states may seek to cut or revise health care programs, optional benefits, eligibility criteria, or provider rates, causing the funding of one or more of our state contracts to be curtailed or cut off. In addition, the timing of payments we receive may be impacted by state budget shortfalls. As an example, during 2008 some monthly payments made by the state of California to our California health plan were several months late, which may occur again during 2009. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. There are numerous risks associated with the growth and operation of our Ohio health plan. Membership at our Ohio health plan has grown rapidly, and the medical care ratio of our Ohio health plan has been substantially higher than that historically experienced by the Company as a whole. At the beginning of 2008, we had projected that the medical care ratio of our Ohio plan would be 88% for the full year. The actual medical care ratio of our Ohio health plan for full year 2008 was 91.1%. For full year 2009, as the result of risk adjustment payments we expect to receive with respect to our Ohio ABD members, the expected benefits from our in-sourcing of behavioral health, and the expected savings derived from our provider re-contracting efforts, we have projected that we can lower the medical care ratio of our Ohio health plan to approximately 87%. In the event these efforts are unsuccessful, the predicted savings are not realized, or we are otherwise unable to lower the medical care ratio of our Ohio health plan, the higher-than-expected medical care ratio of that plan could negatively impact the financial performance of the Company as a whole. In addition, the lower amount of experience of our Ohio Medicaid and ABD members in accessing managed care and of our local providers in coordinating managed care services for their patients may also contribute to a higher than average medical care ratio. Further, as our Ohio plan continues to grow, we will be required to increase the amount of regulatory capital we contribute to it. In 2008, we were required to contribute $18.4 million in additional regulatory capital to our Ohio plan. If we are required to contribute additional capital in the future, our 15 Table of Contents existing cash balances or cash from operations may not be sufficient to cover such payments, in which case we would be required to draw down on our credit facility or obtain additional financing from another source and thereby incur additional indebtedness. In the event we are unable to lower our medical care ratio in Ohio, or if the Ohio plan requires a disproportionate investment of corporate resources or is otherwise unsuccessful, the poor performance of that health plan could detrimentally impact the financial performance of the Company as a whole. If our government contracts are not renewed or are terminated, or if the responsive bids of our health plans for new Medicaid contracts are not successful, including the 2009 bids of our Michigan and Missouri health plans, our premium revenues could be materially reduced and our operating results could be negatively impacted. Our government contracts generally run for periods of one year to four years, and may be successively extended by amendment for additional periods if the relevant state agency so elects. Our current contracts expire on various dates over the next several years. There is no guarantee that any of our government contracts will be renewed or extended. Moreover, our contracts may be subject to periodic competitive bidding. As an example, the Medicaid contracts of our Michigan and Missouri health plans both expire on September 30, 2009. These health plans will be required to submit bids in response to the requests for proposals of the Medicaid authorities in each of Michigan and Missouri. In the event the responsive bids of our health plans are not successful, we will lose our Medicaid contract in the applicable state, and our premium revenues could be materially reduced as a result. Alternatively, even if our responsive bids are successful, they may be based upon assumptions regarding enrollment, utilization, medical costs, or other factors which could result in the Medicaid contract being less profitable than we had expected or had previously been the case. In addition, all of our contracts may be terminated for cause if we breach a material provision of the contract or violate relevant laws or regulations. Our contracts with the states are also subject to cancellation by the state in the event of unavailability of state or federal funding. In some jurisdictions, such cancellation may be immediate and in other jurisdictions a notice period is required. In addition, most contracts are terminable without cause. We may face increased competition as other plans, many with greater financial resources and greater name recognition, attempt to enter our markets through the contracting process. If we are unable to renew, successfully re-bid, or compete for any of our government contracts, or if any of our contracts are terminated or renewed on less favorable terms, our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations could be adversely affected. We derive our premium revenues from a relatively small number of state health plans. We currently derive our premium revenues from ten state health plans. If we were unable to continue to operate in any of those ten states — and in particular in the plans we operate in the states of Washington, Ohio, Michigan, California, or New Mexico — or if our current operations in any portion of the states we are in were significantly curtailed, our revenues could decrease materially. Our reliance on operations in a limited number of states could cause our revenue and profitability to change suddenly and unexpectedly depending on significant rate reductions, a loss of a material contract, legislative actions, changes in Medicaid eligibility methodologies, catastrophic claims, an epidemic or an unexpected increase in utilization, general economic conditions, and similar factors in those states. Our inability to continue to operate in any of the states in which we currently operate, or a significant change in the nature of our existing operations, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. Portions of our premium revenue are subject to accounting estimates or retroactive adjustment. Certain elements of the premium revenue earned by our New Mexico, Ohio, Texas, and Utah health plans, and by our Medicare Advantage plans, are subject to accounting estimates. Such estimates may subsequently prove to be inaccurate or may require adjustment based upon factual developments. If our accounting estimates with respect to our anticipated premiums are inaccurate or previously recognized premiums require retroactive adjustment, the change in our revenues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. For additional information regarding this risk, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Revenue.” 16 Table of Contents Our business may be negatively affected by major governmental health care reform proposals. In response to dramatically escalating health care costs and the large and growing number of uninsured Americans, legislative proposals that would reform the health care system have been advanced by Congress and state legislatures and are currently pending at the federal and state levels. These changes include policy changes that would fundamentally change the dynamics of the health care industry, such as having the federal government assume a larger role in the health care industry, or effecting a fundamental restructuring of the Medicare or Medicaid programs. These proposals may also affect certain aspects of our business, including contracting with providers, provider reimbursement methods and payment rates, coverage determinations, mandated benefits, minimum medical expenditures, claims payment and processing, drug utilization and patient safety efforts, collection, use, disclosure, maintenance, and disposal of individually identifiable health information or personal health records. We cannot predict if any of these initiatives will ultimately become law, or, if enacted, what their terms or the regulations promulgated pursuant to such laws will be, but their enactment could increase our costs, expose us to expanded liability and require us to revise the ways in which we conduct business or put us at risk for loss of business. In addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by such changes even if we correctly predict their occurrence. In the event the grandfathering of the Medicaid managed care organization provider tax in the states of California, Missouri, and Ohio is not extended past September 30, 2009 or replacement state programs are not enacted, the Medicaid funds available for managed care organization in those states, including for our health plans, could be materially reduced. Section 1903(w) of the Social Security Act permits states to receive federal matching Medicaid funds for revenues collected through health care-related taxes. Some states use these taxes to fund increased payment rates to providers, thereby effectively increasing the state’s federal matching rates. The statute defines the term “tax” to include any licensing fee, assessment, or other payment mandated by the state. Prior to the enactment of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (the “Deficit Reduction Act”), the law had permitted a state to define the class of items provided by managed care organizations to mean only revenues received for Medicaid services. However, the Deficit Reduction Act effectively eliminated the future use of such a tax by requiring states to apply the tax broadly to revenue received by health plans for all services provided, including services provided by commercial health plans to commercial health plan members. But for eight states that previously had had managed care organization provider taxes in place targeting only Medicaid health plan services, the Deficit Reduction Act delayed the effective date of this change to October 1, 2009. Included among those eight grandfathered states were four states in which we currently operate health plans: California, Michigan, Missouri, and Ohio. Since the adoption of the Deficit Reduction Act, those four states have continued to collect a provider tax on Medicaid managed care organizations, which has resulted in additional federal Medicaid matching funds being available in those states for distribution to Medicaid managed care organizations. These states depend upon revenues raised through their Medicaid managed care organization provider tax to help them fund their Medicaid programs. The affected states are now considering how to comply with the expiration of the Deficit Reduction Act grandfather clause on September 30, 2009. One option would be for them to eliminate the managed care organization provider tax and replace the lost funds with increases in other Medicaid provider taxes. Another option would be to modify the existing managed care organization provider tax to meet the requirements for a “broad-based” tax that is imposed on both Medicaid and non-Medicaid covered services. One of the affected states — Michigan — has recently enacted a law which, effective as of April 1, 2009, repeals the existing managed care organization provider tax and introduces a new use tax on entities that have a contract to provide Medicaid services, thus effectively resolving the issue in that state. In the event Congress does not further grandfather the Medicaid managed care organization provider tax in the states of California, Missouri, and Ohio to support their Medicaid programs, or if local state programs are not adopted in its place, the loss of state and federal matching Medicaid funds in those states starting in October 2009 could materially reduce the revenues of our California, Missouri, and Ohio health plans, thereby negatively affecting our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. 17 Table of Contents A sustained drop in the rate of interest earned on our invested balances could adversely affect our revenues. Our revenues from invested balances in 2008 were $21.1 million, whereas our revenues from invested balances in 2007 were $30.1 million. If the rate of return on our invested balances in 2008 had matched the rate of return experienced in 2007, our year-over-year earnings would have increased by 23% rather than the 10% increase actually experienced. Thus, prevailing interest rates during the year can have a significant impact on our revenues and earnings. We have projected that, on average in fiscal year 2009, our invested balances will earn interest at the rate of at least 2%. Our invested balances earned an average of 3.0% in 2008. In the event the interest earned on our invested balances throughout 2009 averages less than 2% per annum, our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations could be adversely affected. If we are unable to achieve our projected growth in Medicare members or our projected medical care ratio with respect to our Medicare program, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business strategy includes increasing enrollment for our members who are dually eligible under both the Medicaid and Medicare programs, as well as increasing the number of our members eligible under Medicare alone. Our experience with the Medicare program and with Medicare members is much more limited than our experience with Medicaid. The administrative processes, programmatic requirements, and regulations pertaining to the Medicare program differ significantly from those of the Medicaid program. Likewise, the Medicare population has many characteristics and behavior patterns which differ from the Medicaid population with which we are familiar. Finally, Medicare providers, provider networks, and provider relations also differ from those of Medicaid. During 2009, we intend to continue to invest in the infrastructure necessary to grow our Medicare program. We have projected that we will have enrolled 12,000 Medicare members by the end of 2009. In the event we are unable to enroll as many Medicare members as we project or if we are unable to quickly develop our Medicare expertise and adapt to the differing requirements and needs of the Medicare program and Medicare members, our business strategy may be unsuccessful and our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations could be adversely affected. Failure to attain profitability in any new start-up operations could negatively affect our results of operations. Start-up costs associated with a new business can be substantial. For example, to obtain a certificate of authority to operate as a health maintenance organization in most jurisdictions, we must first establish a provider network, have infrastructure and required systems in place, and demonstrate our ability to obtain a state contract and process claims. Often we are also required to contribute significant capital to fund mandated net worth requirements, performance bonds or escrows, or contingency guaranties. If we were unsuccessful in obtaining the certificate of authority, winning the bid to provide services, or attracting members in sufficient numbers to cover our costs, any new business of ours would fail. We also could be required by the state to continue to provide services for some period of time without sufficient revenue to cover our ongoing costs or to recover our significant start-up costs. Even if we are successful in establishing a profitable health plan in a new state, increasing membership, revenues, and medical costs will trigger increased mandated net worth requirements which could substantially exceed the net income generated by the health plan. Rapid growth in an existing state will also create increased net worth requirements. In such circumstances we may not be able to fund on a timely basis or at all the increased net worth requirements with our available cash resources. The expenses associated with starting up a health plan in a new state or expanding a health plan in an existing state could have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. Difficulties in executing our acquisition strategy could adversely affect our business. The acquisitions of other health plans and the assignment and assumption of Medicaid contract rights of other health plans have accounted for a significant amount of our growth over the last several years. Although we cannot predict with certainty our rate of growth as the result of acquisitions, we believe that additional acquisitions of all sizes will be important to our future growth strategy. Many of the other potential purchasers of these assets 18 Table of Contents — particularly operators of large commercial health plans — have significantly greater financial resources than we do. Also, many of the sellers may insist on selling assets that we do not want, such as commercial lines of business, or may insist on transferring their liabilities to us as part of the sale of their companies or assets. Even if we identify suitable targets, we may be unable to complete acquisitions on terms favorable to us or obtain the necessary financing for these acquisitions. Further, to the extent we complete an acquisition, we may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits from such acquisition because of operational factors or difficulty in integrating the acquisition with our existing business. This may include problems involving the integration of: • additional employees who are not familiar with our operations or our corporate culture, • new provider networks which may operate on terms different from our existing networks, • additional members who may decide to transfer to other health care providers or health plans, • disparate information, claims processing, and record keeping systems, • internal controls and accounting policies, including those which require the exercise of judgment and complex estimation processes, such as estimates of claims incurred but not reported, accounting for goodwill, intangible assets, stock-based compensation, and income tax matters, and • new regulatory schemes, relationships, practices, and compliance requirements. Also, we are generally required to obtain regulatory approval from one or more state agencies when making acquisitions. In the case of an acquisition of a business located in a state in which we do not already operate, we would be required to obtain the necessary licenses to operate in that state. In addition, although we may already operate in a state in which we acquire a new business, we would be required to obtain regulatory approval if, as a result of the acquisition, we will operate in an area of that state in which we did not operate previously. We may be unable to obtain the necessary governmental approvals or comply with these regulatory requirements in a timely manner, if at all. For all of the above reasons, we may not be able to consummate our proposed acquisitions as announced from time to time to sustain our pattern of growth or to realize benefits from completed acquisitions. Restrictions and covenants in our credit facility may limit our ability to make certain acquisitions or reduce our liquidity and capital resources. To provide liquidity, we have a $200 million senior secured credit facility that matures in May 2012. As of December 31, 2008, we had no outstanding indebtedness under our credit facility. Our credit facility imposes numerous restrictions and covenants, including prescribed consolidated leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios, net worth requirements, and acquisition limitations that restrict our financial and operating flexibility, including our ability to make certain acquisitions above specified values and declare dividends without lender approval. As a result of the restrictions and covenants imposed under our credit facility, our growth strategy may be negatively impacted by our inability to act with complete flexibility, or our inability to use our credit facility in the manner intended. If we are in default at a time when funds under the credit facility are required to finance an acquisition, or if a proposed acquisition does not satisfy the pro forma financial requirements under our credit facility, we may be unable to use the credit facility in the manner intended. In addition, if we were to draw down on our credit facility, or incur other additional debt in the future, it could have an adverse effect on our business and future operations. For example, it could: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce funds available to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, and other general operating requirements; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business; or • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. 19 Table of Contents In addition, the financial institutions which form the lending syndicate under our credit facility have recently experienced significant losses. As a result, such financial institutions may be unable to fund a loan under our credit facility. In the event we default under our credit facility or our lenders are unable to fund a loan request under our credit facility, our operations, liquidity, and capital resources could be materially adversely affected. Adverse credit market conditions may have a material adverse affect on our liquidity or our ability to obtain credit on acceptable terms. The securities and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption over the past year. The availability of credit, from virtually all types of lenders, has been severely restricted. Such conditions may persist throughout 2009 and beyond. In the event we need access to additional capital to pay our operating expenses, make payments on our indebtedness, pay capital expenditures, or fund acquisitions, our ability to obtain such capital may be limited and the cost of any such capital may be significant, particularly if we are unable to access our existing credit facility. Our access to additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as prevailing economic and credit market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to our industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, and perceptions of our financial prospects. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. If a combination of these factors were to occur, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all. While we have not attempted to access the credit markets recently, we believe that if credit could be obtained, the terms and costs of such credit would be significantly less favorable to us than what was obtained in our most recent financings. Ineffective management of our growth may negatively affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Depending on acquisitions and other opportunities, we expect to continue to grow our membership and to expand into other markets. In fiscal year 2005, we had total premium revenue of $1.6 billion. In fiscal year 2008, we had total premium revenue of $3.0 billion, an increase of 88% over a four-year span. Continued rapid growth could place a significant strain on our management and on other Company resources. Our ability to manage our growth may depend on our ability to strengthen our management team and attract, train, and retain skilled employees, and our ability to implement and improve operational, financial, and management information systems on a timely basis. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, due to the initial substantial costs related to acquisitions, rapid growth could adversely affect our short-term profitability and liquidity. Any changes to the laws and regulations governing our business, or the interpretation and enforcement of those laws or regulations, could cause us to modify our operations and could negatively impact our operating results. Our business is extensively regulated by the federal government and the states in which we operate. The laws and regulations governing our operations are generally intended to benefit and protect health plan members and providers rather than managed care organizations. The government agencies administering these laws and regulations have broad latitude in interpreting and applying them. These laws and regulations, along with the terms of our government contracts, regulate how we do business, what services we offer, and how we interact with members and the public. For instance, some states mandate minimum medical expense levels as a percentage of premium revenues. These laws and regulations, and their interpretations, are subject to frequent change. The interpretation of certain contract provisions by our governmental regulators may also change. Changes in existing laws or regulations, or their interpretations, or the enactment of new laws or regulations, could reduce our profitability by imposing additional capital requirements, increasing our liability, increasing our administrative and other costs, increasing mandated benefits, forcing us to restructure our relationships with providers, or requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems. Changes in the interpretation of our contracts could also reduce our profitability if we have detrimentally relied on a prior interpretation. 20 Table of Contents Funding under our contracts is subject to regulatory and programmatic adjustments and reforms for which we may not be appropriately compensated. The federal government and the governments of the states in which we operate frequently consider legislative and regulatory proposals regarding Medicaid reform and programmatic changes. Such proposals involve, among other things, changes in reimbursement or payment levels based on certain parameters or member characteristics, changes in eligibility for Medicaid, and changes in benefits covered such as pharmacy, behavioral health, or vision. Any of these changes could be made effective retroactively. If our cost increases resulting from these changes are not matched by commensurate increases in our revenue, we would be unable to make offsetting adjustments, such as supplemental premiums or changes in our benefit plans, as would a commercial health plan. Any such regulatory or programmatic reforms at either the federal or state level could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. We face periodic routine and non-routine reviews, audits, and investigations by government agencies, and these reviews and audits could have adverse findings, which could negatively impact our business. We are subject to various routine and non-routine governmental reviews, audits, and investigations. Violation of the laws, regulations, or contract provisions governing our operations, or changes in interpretations of those laws, could result in the imposition of civil or criminal penalties, the cancellation of our contracts to provide managed care services, the suspension or revocation of our licenses, the exclusion from participation in government sponsored health programs, or the revision and recoupment of past payments made based on audit findings. If we become subject to material fines or if other sanctions or other corrective actions were imposed upon us, we might suffer a substantial reduction in profitability, and might also lose one or more of our government contracts and as a result lose significant numbers of members and amounts of revenue. In addition, government receivables are subject to government audit and negotiation, and government contracts are vulnerable to disagreements with the government. For instance, CMS announced in 2008 that it will perform audits of selected Medicare health plans each year to validate the coding practices of and supporting documentation maintained by care providers. These audits involve a review of medical records maintained by providers, including those in and out of network, and may result in retrospective or prospective adjustments to payments made to health plans pursuant to CMS Medicare contracts. The final amounts we ultimately receive under government contracts may be different from the amounts we initially recognize in our financial statements. Our business depends on our information and medical management systems, and our inability to effectively integrate, manage, and keep secure our information and medical management systems, or to successfully migrate our main data processing facility to the new facility we are constructing in New Mexico, could disrupt our operations. Our business is dependent on effective and secure information systems that assist us in, among other things, processing provider claims, monitoring utilization and other cost factors, supporting our medical management techniques, and providing data to our regulators. Our providers also depend upon our information systems for membership verifications, claims status, and other information. If we experience a reduction in the performance, reliability, or availability of our information and medical management systems, our operations and ability to produce timely and accurate reports could be adversely affected. In addition, if the licensor or vendor of any software which is integral to our operations were to become insolvent or otherwise fail to support the software sufficiently, our operations could be negatively affected. Our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading, and enhancement to meet our operational needs. Moreover, our acquisition activity requires transitions to or from, and the integration of, various information systems. Our policy is to upgrade and expand our information systems capabilities. If we experience difficulties with the transition to or from information systems or are unable to properly implement, maintain, upgrade or expand our system, we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions, loss of members, difficulty in attracting new members, regulatory problems, and increases in administrative expenses. We are currently constructing a new health information technology center in Albuquerque, New Mexico. During 2009, we anticipate migrating our main data processing functions from our current facility in Long Beach, 21 Table of Contents California to that new facility. In the event that transition to New Mexico is disrupted for any reason, or if the information technology equipment in our new facility malfunctions, our claims processing, utilization management, or other data processing functions could be disrupted which would adversely affect all of our business operations. In addition, we intend during 2009 to migrate the claims processing functions of our Missouri health plan to our centralized platform. In the event that migration is unsuccessful, the business operations of our Missouri health plan could be adversely affected. Our business requires the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, or other events or developments could result in compromises or breaches of our security systems and member data stored in our information systems. Anyone who circumvents our security measures could misappropriate our confidential information or cause interruptions in services or operations. The internet is a public network, and data is sent over this network from many sources. In the past, computer viruses or software programs that disable or impair computers have been distributed and have rapidly spread over the internet. Computer viruses could be introduced into our systems, or those of our providers or regulators, which could disrupt our operations, or make our systems inaccessible to our members, providers, or regulators. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. Because of the confidential health information we store and transmit, security breaches could expose us to a risk of regulatory action, litigation, possible liability and loss. Our security measures may be inadequate to prevent security breaches, and our business operations would be negatively impacted by cancellation of contracts and loss of members if they are not prevented. Because our corporate headquarters are located in Southern California, our business operations may be significantly disrupted as a result of a major earthquake. Our corporate headquarters is located in Long Beach, California. In addition, until our centralized claims processing and information technology support functions are migrated to New Mexico, those facilities will remain in Long Beach, California. Southern California is exposed to a statistically greater risk of a major earthquake than most other parts of the country. If a major earthquake were to strike the Los Angeles and Long Beach area, our corporate functions and claims processing could be significantly impaired for a substantial period of time. Although we have established a disaster recovery and business resumption plan with back-up operating sites to be deployed in the case of such a major disruptive event, there can be no assurances that the business operations of all our health plans, including those that are remote from any such event, would not be substantially impacted by a major Southern California earthquake. If we are unable to maintain good relations with the physicians, hospitals, and other providers with whom we contract, or if we are unable to enter into cost-effective contracts with such providers, our profitability could be adversely affected. We contract with physicians, hospitals, and other providers as a means to assure access to health care services for our members, to manage health care costs and utilization, and to better monitor the quality of care being delivered. In any particular market, providers could refuse to contract with us, demand higher payments, or take other actions which could result in higher health care costs, disruption to provider access for current members, a decline in our growth rate, or difficulty in meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. In some markets, certain providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital organizations, and some specialists, may have significant market positions or even monopolies. If these providers refuse to contract with us or utilize their market position to negotiate favorable contracts which are disadvantageous to us, our profitability in those areas could be adversely affected. Some providers that render services to our members are not contracted with our plans. In those cases, there is no pre-established understanding between the provider and our plan about the amount of compensation that is due to the provider. In some states, the amount of compensation is defined by law or regulation, but in most instances it is either not defined or it is established by a standard that is not clearly translatable into dollar terms. In such instances, providers may believe they are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with our 22 Table of Contents plan. The uncertainty of the amount to pay and the possibility of subsequent adjustment of the payment could adversely affect our business, financial position, cash flows, or results of operations. Regulatory actions and negative publicity regarding Medicaid managed care and Medicare Advantage may lead to programmatic changes and intensified regulatory scrutiny and regulatory burdens. Several of our health care competitors have recently been involved in governmental investigations and regulatory actions which have resulted in significant volatility in the price of their stock. In addition, there has been negative publicity and proposed programmatic changes regarding Medicare Advantage private fee-for-service plans, a part of the Medicare Advantage program in which the Company does not participate. Because of the limited number of health care companies competing in our market space, these actions and the resulting negative publicity could become associated with or imputed to the Company, regardless of the Company’s actual regulatory compliance or programmatic participation. Such an association, as well as any perception of a recurring pattern of abuse among the health plan participants in government programs and the diminished reputation of the managed care sector as a whole, could result in public distrust, political pressure for changes in the programs in which the Company does participate, intensified scrutiny by regulators, additional regulatory requirements and burdens, increased stock volatility due to speculative trading, and heightened barriers to new managed care markets and contracts, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. If a state fails to renew its federal waiver application for mandated Medicaid enrollment into managed care or such application is denied, our membership in that state will likely decrease. States may only mandate Medicaid enrollment into managed care under federal waivers or demonstrations. Waivers and programs under demonstrations are approved for two-year periods and can be renewed on an ongoing basis if the state applies. We have no control over this renewal process. If a state does not renew its mandated program or the federal government denies the state’s application for renewal, our business would suffer as a result of a likely decrease in membership. We face claims related to litigation which could result in substantial monetary damages. We are subject to a variety of legal actions, including medical malpractice actions, provider disputes, employment related disputes, and breach of contract actions. In the event we incur liability materially in excess of the amount for which we have insurance coverage, our profitability would suffer. In addition, our providers involved in medical care decisions are exposed to the risk of medical malpractice claims. Providers at the 17 primary care clinics we operate in California are employees of our California health plan. As a direct employer of physicians and ancillary medical personnel and as an operator of primary care clinics, our California plan is subject to liability for negligent acts, omissions, or injuries occurring at one of its clinics or caused by one of its employees. We maintain medical malpractice insurance for our clinics in the amount of $1 million per occurrence, and an annual aggregate limit of $3 million, errors and omissions insurance in the amount of $10 million per occurrence and in aggregate for each policy year, and such other lines of coverage as we believe are reasonable in light of our experience to date. However, given the significant amount of some medical malpractice awards and settlements, this insurance may not be sufficient or available at a reasonable cost to protect us from damage awards or other liabilities. Even if any claims brought against us were unsuccessful or without merit, we would have to defend ourselves against such claims. The defense of any such actions may be time-consuming and costly, and may distract our management’s attention. As a result, we may incur significant expenses and may be unable to effectively operate our business. Furthermore, claimants often sue managed care organizations for improper denials of or delays in care, and in some instances improper authorizations of care. Also, Congress and several state legislatures have considered legislation that would permit managed care organizations to be held liable for negligent treatment decisions or benefits coverage determinations. If this or similar legislation were enacted, claims of this nature could result in substantial damage awards against us and our providers that could exceed the limits of any applicable medical malpractice insurance coverage. Successful malpractice or tort claims asserted against us, our providers, or our employees could adversely affect our financial condition and profitability. 23 Table of Contents We cannot predict the outcome of any lawsuit with certainty. While we currently have insurance coverage for some of the potential liabilities relating to litigation, other such liabilities may not be covered by insurance, the insurers could dispute coverage, or the amount of insurance could be insufficient to cover the damages awarded. In addition, insurance coverage for all or certain types of liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future or the deductible on any such insurance coverage could be set at a level which would result in us effectively self-insuring cases against us. Although we establish reserves for litigation as we believe appropriate, we cannot assure you that our recorded reserves will be adequate to cover such costs. Therefore, the litigation to which we are subject could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations, and could prompt us to change our operating procedures. We are subject to competition which negatively impacts our ability to increase penetration in the markets we serve. We operate in a highly competitive environment and in an industry that is currently subject to significant changes from business consolidations, new strategic alliances, and aggressive marketing practices by other managed care organizations. We compete for members principally on the basis of size, location, and quality of provider network, benefits supplied, quality of service, and reputation. A number of these competitive elements are partially dependent upon and can be positively affected by the financial resources available to a health plan. Many other organizations with which we compete, including large commercial plans, have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. For these reasons, we may be unable to grow our membership, or may lose members to other health plans. If state regulators do not approve payments of dividends and distributions by our subsidiaries, it may negatively affect our business strategy. We are a corporate parent holding company and hold most of our assets at, and conduct most of our operations through, direct and indirect subsidiaries. As a holding company, our results of operations depend on the results of operations of our subsidiaries. Moreover, we are dependent on dividends or other intercompany transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service and other obligations. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments or advances to us will depend on their operating results and will be subject to applicable laws and restrictions contained in agreements governing the debt of such subsidiaries. In addition, our health plan subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations that limit the amount of dividends and distributions that they can pay to us without prior approval of, or notification to, state regulators. In California, our health plan may dividend, without notice to or approval of the California Department of Managed Health Care, amounts by which its tangible net equity exceeds 130% of the tangible net equity requirement. Our other health plans must give thirty days advance notice and the opportunity to disapprove “extraordinary” dividends to the respective state departments of insurance for amounts over the lesser of (a) ten percent of surplus or net worth at the prior year end or (b) the net income for the prior year. The discretion of the state regulators, if any, in approving or disapproving a dividend is not clearly defined. Health plans that declare non-extraordinary dividends must usually provide notice to the regulators ten or fifteen days in advance of the intended distribution date of the non-extraordinary dividend. The aggregate amounts our health plan subsidiaries could have paid us at December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 without approval of the regulatory authorities were approximately $7.6 million, $18.7 million, and $6.9 million, respectively. If the regulators were to deny or significantly restrict our subsidiaries’ requests to pay dividends to us, the funds available to our company as a whole would be limited, which could harm our ability to implement our business strategy. For example, we could be hindered in our ability to make debt service payments under our credit facility and/or our senior convertible notes. Unforeseen changes in regulations or pharmaceutical market conditions may impact our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations. A significant category of our health care costs relate to pharmaceutical products and services. Evolving regulations and state and federal mandates regarding coverage may impact the ability of our health plans to continue to receive existing price discounts on pharmaceutical products for our members. Other factors affecting our 24 Table of Contents pharmaceutical costs include, but are not limited to, the price of pharmaceuticals, geographic variation in utilization of new and existing pharmaceuticals, and changes in discounts. The unpredictable nature of these factors may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and stock price. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our future testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 will continue to require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management time and effort. Moreover, if we are not able to continue to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NYSE, SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. Volatility of our stock price could adversely affect stockholders. Since our initial public offering in July 2003, the sales price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $16.12 to a high of $53.23. A number of factors will continue to influence the market price of our common stock, including: • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates, if any, of public market analysts, • announcements relating to our business or the business of our competitors, • state and federal budget decreases, • adverse publicity regarding health maintenance organizations and other managed care organizations, • government action regarding member eligibility, • changes in government payment levels, • changes in state mandatory programs, • conditions generally affecting the managed care industry or our provider networks, • the success of our operating or acquisition strategy, • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies in the health care industry, • the termination of our Medicaid or CHIP contracts with state or county agencies, or subcontracts with other Medicaid managed care organizations that contract with such state or county agencies, • regulatory or legislative change, and • general economic conditions, including unemployment rates, inflation, and interest rates. Our stock may not trade at the same levels as the stock of other health care companies or the market in general. Also, if the trading market for our stock does not continue to develop, securities analysts may not initiate or maintain research coverage of our company and our shares, and this could depress the market for our shares. 25 Table of Contents Members of the Molina family own a majority of our capital stock, decreasing the influence of other stockholders on stockholder decisions. Members of the Molina family, either directly or as trustees or beneficiaries of Molina family trusts, in the aggregate own or are entitled to receive upon certain events approximately 56% of our capital stock. Our president and chief executive officer, as well as our chief financial officer, are members of the Molina family, and they are also on our board of directors. Because of the amount of their shareholdings, Molina family members, if they were to act as a group with the trustees of their family trusts, have the ability to significantly influence all matters submitted to stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors, amendments to our charter, and any merger, consolidation, or sale of our Company. A significant concentration of share ownership can also adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors often discount the value of stock in companies that have controlling stockholders. Furthermore, the concentration of share ownership in the Molina family could delay or prevent a merger or consolidation, takeover, or other business combination that could be favorable to our stockholders. Finally, the interests and objectives of the Molina family may be different from those of our company or our other stockholders, and they may vote their common stock in a manner that is contrary to the vote of our other stockholders. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire our company, which could inhibit stockholders from realizing a premium on their stock price. We are subject to the Delaware anti-takeover laws regulating corporate takeovers. These provisions may prohibit stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws also contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of our company that stockholders may consider favorable or beneficial. These provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include: • a staggered board of directors, so that it would take three successive annual meetings to replace all directors, • prohibition of stockholder action by written consent, and • advance notice requirements for the submission by stockholders of nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting. In addition, changes of control are often subject to state regulatory notification, and in some cases, prior approval. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have not declared or paid any dividends since our initial public offering in July 2003. While we have in the past and may again use our available cash to repurchase our securities, we do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Changes in accounting may affect our results of operations. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and related implementation guidelines and interpretations can be highly complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation, the adoption of new pronouncements or the application of existing pronouncements to our business could significantly affect our results of operations. In October 2007, we completed our offering of $200 million aggregate principal amount of 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2014. In May 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued FASB Staff Position APB 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement) (the “FSP”). The FSP requires the proceeds from the issuance of such convertible debt instruments to be allocated between a liability component and an equity component. The resulting debt discount is amortized over the period the convertible debt is expected to be outstanding, as additional non-cash 26 Table of Contents interest expense. The change in accounting treatment is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and shall be applied retrospectively to prior periods. The FSP changes the accounting treatment for our 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes. The impact of this new accounting treatment will result in an increase to non-cash interest expense beginning in fiscal year 2009 for financial statements covering past and future periods. The incremental impact of the FSP to our results of operations in 2009 will be approximately $3.1 million, or $0.12 per diluted share, net of tax. This estimate does not include the impact of our repurchase of $13 million face amount of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes in February 2009. We estimate the retroactive adjustment for prior periods will be approximately $627,000, or $0.02 per diluted share, net of tax, for 2007, and $2.9 million, or $0.11 per diluted share, net of tax, for 2008. Our investments in auction rate securities are subject to risks that may cause losses and have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. As of December 31, 2008, $70.5 million par value (fair value of $58.2 million) of our investments consisted of auction rate securities, all of which were securities collateralized by student loan portfolios, guaranteed by the U.S. government. We continued to earn interest on substantially all of these auction rate securities as of December 31, 2008. Due to events in the credit markets, the auction rate securities held by us experienced failed auctions beginning in the first quarter of 2008. As such, quoted prices in active markets were not readily available during the majority of 2008. We used pricing models to estimate the fair value of these securities. These pricing models included factors such as the collateral underlying the securities, the creditworthiness of the counterparty, the timing of expected future cash flows, and the expectation of the next time the security would be expected to have a successful auction. The estimated values of these securities were also compared, when possible, to valuation data with respect to similar securities held by other parties. We concluded that these estimates, given the lack of market available pricing, provided a reasonable basis for determining fair value of the auction rate securities as of December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2008, we held $42.5 million par value (fair value of $34.9 million) auction rate securities with a certain investment securities firm. In November 2008, we entered into a rights agreement with this firm that (1) allows us to exercise rights (the “Rights”) to sell the eligible auction rate securities at par value to this firm between June 30, 2010 and July 2, 2012, and (2) gives the investment securities firm the right to purchase the auction rate securities from us any time after the agreement date as long as we receive the par value. We have accounted for the Rights as a freestanding financial instrument and have elected to record the value of the Rights under the fair value option of SFAS 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. In the fourth quarter of 2008, this resulted in the recognition of a $6.9 million non-current asset, with a corresponding increase to pretax income for the value of the Rights. To determine the fair value estimate of the Rights, we used a discounted cash-flow model that was based on the expectation that the auction rate securities will be put back to the investment securities firm at par on June 30, 2010, as permitted by the Rights agreement. Simultaneous to the recognition of the $6.9 million rights agreement, we recorded an other-than-temporary impairment of the underlying auction rate securities, and prior unrealized losses on the auction rate securities that had been recorded to other comprehensive loss through November 2008 were charged to income, totaling $7.2 million. Also, at the time of the execution of the Rights agreement and pursuant to SFAS 115, we elected to transfer the underlying auction rate securities from available-for-sale to trading securities. For the month of December 2008, we recorded additional losses of $399,000 on these auction rate securities. We expect that the future changes in the fair value of the Rights will be substantially offset by the fair value movements in the underlying auction rate securities. As of December 31, 2008, the remainder of our auction rate securities, which are still designated as available-for-sale, amounted to $28.0 million par value (fair value of $23.3 million). As a result of the decline in fair value of these auction rate securities, we recorded unrealized losses of $4.7 million to accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income for the year ended December 31, 2008. We have deemed these unrealized losses to be temporary and attribute the decline in value to liquidity issues, as a result of the failed auction market, rather than to credit issues. Any future fluctuation in fair value related to these instruments that we deem to be temporary, including any recoveries of previous write-downs, would be recorded to accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income. If we 27 Table of Contents determine that any future valuation adjustment was other-than-temporary, we would record a charge to earnings as appropriate. The value of our investments is influenced by varying economic and market conditions, and a decrease in value could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Our investments consist solely of investment-grade debt securities. The unrestricted portion of this portfolio is designated primarily as available-for-sale. Our non-current restricted investments are designated as held-to-maturity. Available-for-sale investments are carried at fair value, and the unrealized gains or losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive loss as a separate component of stockholders’ equity, unless the decline in value is deemed to be other-than-temporary and we do not have the intent and ability to hold such securities until their full cost can be recovered. Trading securities are carried at fair value and any realized gains or losses are included as a component of earnings. For our available-for-sale investments and held-to-maturity investments, if a decline in value is deemed to be other-than-temporary and we do not have the intent and ability to hold such security until its full cost can be recovered, the security is deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired and it is written down to fair value and the loss is recorded as an expense. In accordance with applicable accounting standards, we review our investment securities to determine if declines in fair value below cost are other-than-temporary. This review is subjective and requires a high degree of judgment. We conduct this review on a quarterly basis, using both quantitative and qualitative factors, to determine whether a decline in value is other-than-temporary. Such factors considered include the length of time and the extent to which market value has been less than cost, the financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer, recommendations of investment advisors and forecasts of economic, market or industry trends. This review process also entails an evaluation of our ability and intent to hold individual securities until they mature or full cost can be recovered. The current economic environment and recent volatility of the securities markets increase the difficulty of assessing investment impairment and the same influences tend to increase the risk of potential impairment of these assets. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded an other-than-temporary impairment of certain auction rate securities as described above, totaling $7.2 million. Over time, the economic and market environment may further deteriorate or provide additional insight regarding the fair value of certain securities, which could change our judgment regarding impairment. This could result in realized losses relating to other-than-temporary declines or losses related to our trading securities to be recorded as an expense. Given the current market conditions and the significant judgments involved, there is continuing risk that further declines in fair value may occur and material other-than-temporary impairments or trading security losses may result in realized losses in future periods which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. An unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential member information could have an adverse effect on our business. As part of our normal operations, we collect, process and retain confidential member information. We are subject to various federal and state laws and rules regarding the use and disclosure of confidential member information, including HIPAA and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 further expands the coverage of HIPAA by, among other things, extending the privacy and security provisions, mandating new regulations around electronic medical records, expanding enforcement mechanisms, allowing the state Attorneys General to bring enforcement actions and increasing penalties for violations. Despite the security measures we have in place to ensure compliance with applicable laws and rules, our facilities and systems, and those of our third party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure or use of confidential member information, whether by us or a third party, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. 28 Table of Contents We are dependent on our executive officers and other key employees. Our operations are highly dependent on the efforts of our executive officers. The loss of their leadership, knowledge, and experience could negatively impact our operations. Replacing many of our executive officers might be difficult or take an extended period of time because a limited number of individuals in the managed care industry have the breadth and depth of skills and experience necessary to operate and expand successfully a business such as ours. Our success is also dependent on our ability to hire and retain qualified management, technical, and medical personnel. We may be unsuccessful in recruiting and retaining such personnel which could negatively impact our operations. A pandemic, such as a worldwide outbreak of a new influenza virus, could materially and adversely affect our ability to control health care costs. An outbreak of a pandemic disease, such as the H5N1 avian flu, could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. The impact of a flu pandemic on the United States would likely be substantial. Estimates of the contagion and mortality rate of any mutated avian flu virus that can be transmitted from human to human are highly speculative. A significant global outbreak of avian flu among humans could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition as a result of increased inpatient and outpatient hospital costs and the cost of anti-viral medication to treat the virus. Conversion of our senior convertible notes may dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. Our convertible notes are convertible into cash and, under certain circumstances, shares of our common stock. The conversion of some or all of our convertible notes may dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of our common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the anticipated conversion of the convertible notes into cash and shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments We have not received any comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission which remain unresolved. 