Item 1A: Risk Factors RISK FACTORS Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 This annual report on Form 10-K and the documents we incorporate by reference in this report contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Other than statements of historical fact, all statements that we include in this report and in the documents we incorporate by reference may be deemed to be forward-looking statements for purposes of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act. Such forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “could,” “estimates,” “expects,” “guidance,” “intends,” “may,” “outlook,” “plans,” “projects,” “seeks,” “will,” or similar words or expressions. Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully read and consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information we include or incorporate by reference in this report and the information in the other reports we file with the SEC. Such risk factors should be considered not only with regard to the information contained in this annual report, but also with regard to the information and statements in the other periodic or current reports we file with the SEC, as well as our press releases, presentations to securities analysts or investors, or other communications made by or with the approval of one of our executive officers. We cannot guarantee that we will actually achieve the results contemplated or disclosed in our forward-looking statements. Such statements may turn out to be wrong due to the inherent uncertainties associated with future events. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s analyses, judgments, beliefs, or expectations only as of the date they are made. If any of the events described in the following risk factors actually occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, or prospects could be materially adversely affected. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect us. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to address or update forward-looking statements in future filings or communications regarding our business or operating results, and do not undertake to address how any of these factors may have caused results to differ from discussions or information contained in previous filings or communications. 14 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Health Plan Business State and federal budget deficits may result in Medicaid, CHIP, or Medicare funding cuts or changes in member eligibility thresholds or criteria which could compress our profit margins. With the exception of the relatively small portion of our revenues which come from Medicare, nearly all of our premium revenues come from the joint federal and state funding of the Medicaid and CHIP programs. Due to high unemployment levels, Medicaid enrollment levels and Medicaid costs are continuing to increase at the same time that state budgets are suffering from unprecedented deficits. In June 2009, 46.9 million members were enrolled in the Medicaid program throughout the nation, nearly 3.3 million more than in June 2008, representing the largest one-year increase since the inception of the Medicaid program. Because governmental health care programs account for such a large portion of state budgets, efforts to contain overall government spending and to achieve a balanced budget often result in significant political pressure being directed at the funding for these health care programs. The National Association of State Medicaid Directors estimates that state budget shortfalls in the coming fiscal year, which begins in July in most states, will total $140 billion. Because Medicaid is one of the largest expenditures in every state budget, and one of the fastest-growing, it will likely be a prime target for cost-containment efforts. Thus, the sufficiency of the funding under our various state contracts, or the rates we expect to be paid during the course of a year, will be in jeopardy during 2010 while the state budget crises persist. All of the states in which we currently operate our health plans are currently facing significant budgetary pressures. Moreover, because Medicaid enrollment often lags behind unemployment, increases in Medicaid enrollment in 2010 could be even greater than it was in 2009, putting even greater pressure on state budgets. As part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, or ARRA, the federal government increased the amount of funding for federal Medicaid matching by approximately $87 billion for the period between October 1, 2008 and December 31, 2010. The actual matching percentage is computed from a formula that takes into account the average per capita income for each state relative to the national average, and a state’s unemployment rate. As a result of the passage of this legislation, the share of Medicaid costs that are paid for by the federal government has gone up, and the share of costs that are paid for by the states has gone down. However, in order for states to receive these increased federal matching funds, they must first budget for and actually spend their own state dollars to cover their additional Medicaid and CHIP members. Medicaid spending will therefore be driven by states’ available revenues. State governments may have insufficient funds to fully fund these programs or provide for expanded enrollment. As a result, states may seek to cut or revise health care programs, optional benefits, eligibility criteria and thresholds, or provider rates, causing the funding of one or more of our state contracts to be curtailed or cut off. In addition, the timing of payments we receive may be impacted by state budget shortfalls. In addition, the $87 billion in increased Medicaid funding provided by ARRA will expire as of December 31, 2010, in the middle of many states’ fiscal years. On March 10, 2010, the United States Senate approved legislation which would allocate $25 billion to the extension by six months of the 6.2% increase in the FMAP provided under ARRA. If this legislation is passed by the House and signed into law by President Obama, the increased FMAP paid to the states will continue through June 30, 2011. Unless increased Medicaid funding similar to that provided under ARRA is renewed, the impending loss of this federal funding may cause states to curtail their health care programs or to slash membership in the middle of their fiscal year. Such an action could result in the abrupt loss of a significant number of our enrollees. Because of their budget deficits, some of the states in which we operate may unexpectedly reduce the rates paid to our health plans or carve out certain elements of their Medicaid benefits, thereby undermining the assumptions used to generate our earnings projections. For instance, effective October 1, 2009, the state of Missouri carved out pharmacy from its Medicaid benefit package, and effective February 1, 2010 the state of Ohio did likewise with its pharmacy benefit. The provision of this benefit by our Missouri and Ohio health plans, respectively, had previously been a significant source of earnings for those health plans. Many states have moved to cut optional benefits in the face of budgetary pressures. There is a risk that cutting such benefits may drive Medicaid patients into expensive emergency rooms, further exacerbating the cost of the Medicaid program to a state. Any unexpected rate cuts or changes in benefit packages could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Our profitability depends on our ability to accurately predict and effectively manage our medical care costs. Our profitability depends to a significant degree on our ability to accurately predict and effectively manage our medical care costs. Historically, our medical care cost ratio, meaning our medical care costs as a percentage of our premium revenue, has fluctuated substantially, and has also varied across our state health plans. Because the premium payments we receive are generally fixed in advance and we operate with a narrow profit margin, relatively small changes in our medical care cost ratio can create significant changes in our overall financial results. For example, if our overall medical care ratio for 2009 of 86.8% had been one percentage point higher, or 87.8%, our earnings for 2009 would have been $0.18 per diluted share rather than our actual 2009 earnings of $1.19 per diluted share, an 85% reduction in our earnings. Factors that may affect our medical care costs include the level of utilization of health care services, increases in hospital costs, an increased incidence or acuity of high dollar claims related to catastrophic illnesses or medical conditions such as hemophilia for which we do not have adequate reinsurance coverage, increased maternity costs, payment rates that are not actuarially sound, changes in state eligibility certification methodologies, unexpected patterns in the annual flu season, relatively low levels of hospital and specialty provider competition in certain geographic areas, increases in the cost of pharmaceutical products and services, changes in health care regulations and practices, epidemics, new medical technologies, and other various external factors. Many of these factors are beyond our control and could reduce our ability to accurately predict and effectively manage the costs of providing health care services. This was demonstrated in the third and fourth quarters of 2009, when our medical costs exceeded our previous estimates as a result of much higher utilization due to widespread influenza-related illness across the Company’s health plans, higher medical costs associated with our rapid enrollment growth and the higher costs associated with new members, and higher emergency room costs. The inability to forecast and manage our medical care costs or to establish and maintain a satisfactory medical care cost ratio, either with respect to a particular state health plan or across the consolidated entity, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. Our business may be negatively affected by the enactment of health care or health insurance reforms. In response to escalating health care costs and the large and growing number of uninsured Americans, legislative proposals that would reform the health care system have been advanced by Congress and state legislatures and are currently pending at the federal and state levels. These proposals include policy changes that could fundamentally change the dynamics of the health care industry, such as having the federal government assume a larger role in the health care industry, or effecting a fundamental restructuring of the Medicare or Medicaid programs. These proposals may also affect certain aspects of our business, including our enrollment levels, our required payment of excise or premium taxes, our contracting with providers, provider reimbursement methods and payment rates, coverage determinations, mandated benefits, minimum medical expenditures, claims payment and processing, drug utilization and patient safety efforts, collection, use, disclosure, maintenance, and disposal of individually identifiable health information or personal health records. One proposal for partially financing the cost of health care reform is to assess an excise tax on the revenues of health plans based on their market share. If adopted as proposed, such an excise tax would have a significant impact on our profitability. We cannot predict if any of these initiatives will ultimately become law, or, if enacted, what their terms or the regulations promulgated pursuant to such laws will be. But their enactment could increase our costs, expose us to expanded liability, and require us to revise the ways in which we conduct business or put us at risk for loss of business. In addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by such changes even if we correctly predict their occurrence. A failure to accurately estimate incurred but not reported medical care costs may negatively impact our results of operations. Because of the time lag between when medical services are actually rendered by our providers and when we receive, process, and pay a claim for those medical services, we must continually estimate our medical claims liability at particular points in time, and establish claims reserves related to such estimates. Our estimated reserves 16 Table of Contents for such “incurred but not paid,” or IBNP medical care costs, are based on numerous assumptions. We estimate our medical claims liabilities using actuarial methods based on historical data adjusted for claims receipt and payment experience (and variations in that experience), changes in membership, provider billing practices, health care service utilization trends, cost trends, product mix, seasonality, prior authorization of medical services, benefit changes, known outbreaks of disease or increased incidence of illness such as influenza, provider contract changes, changes to Medicaid fee schedules, and the incidence of high dollar or catastrophic claims. Our ability to accurately estimate claims for our newer lines of business or populations, such as with respect to Medicare Advantage or ABD Medicaid members, is impacted by the more limited experience we have had with those populations. Finally, with regard to the new Medicaid and CHIP members we expect to enroll in 2010 through organic growth due primarily to the recession, new members may be disproportionately costly due to high utilization in their first several months of Medicaid or CHIP membership as a result of their previously having been uninsured and therefore not seeking or deferring medical treatment. The IBNP estimation methods we use and the resulting reserves that we establish are reviewed and updated, and adjustments, if deemed necessary, are reflected in the current period. Given the numerous uncertainties inherent in such estimates, our actual claims liabilities for a particular quarter or other period could differ significantly from the amounts estimated and reserved for that quarter or period. Our actual claims liabilities have varied and will continue to vary from our estimates, particularly in times of significant changes in utilization, medical cost trends, and populations and markets served. If our actual liability for claims payments is higher than estimated, our earnings per share in any particular quarter or annual period could be negatively affected. Our estimates of IBNP may be inadequate in the future, which would negatively affect our results of operations for the relevant time period. Furthermore, if we are unable to accurately estimate IBNP, our ability to take timely corrective actions may be limited, further exacerbating the extent of the negative impact on our results. If our government contracts are not renewed or are terminated, or if the responsive bids of our health plans for new Medicaid contracts are not successful, our premium revenues could be materially reduced and our operating results could be negatively impacted. Our government contracts generally run for periods of one year to four years, and may be successively extended by amendment for additional periods if the relevant state agency so elects. Our current contracts expire on various dates over the next several years. There is no guarantee that any of our government contracts will be renewed or extended. Moreover, our contracts may be subject to periodic competitive bidding. In the event the responsive bids of our health plans are not successful, we will lose our Medicaid contract in the applicable state, and our premium revenues could be materially reduced as a result. Alternatively, even if our responsive bids are successful, they may be based upon assumptions regarding enrollment, utilization, medical costs, or other factors which could result in the Medicaid contract being less profitable than we had expected or had previously been the case. In addition, all of our contracts may be terminated for cause if we breach a material provision of the contract or violate relevant laws or regulations. Our contracts with the states are also subject to cancellation by the state in the event of unavailability of state or federal funding. In some jurisdictions, such cancellation may be immediate and in other jurisdictions a notice period is required. In addition, most contracts are terminable without cause. We may face increased competition as other plans, many with greater financial resources and greater name recognition, attempt to enter our markets through the contracting process. If we are unable to renew, successfully re-bid, or compete for any of our government contracts, or if any of our contracts are terminated or renewed on less favorable terms, our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations could be adversely affected. Restrictions and covenants in our credit facility may limit our ability to make certain acquisitions or reduce our liquidity and capital resources. To provide liquidity, we have a $200 million senior secured credit facility that matures in May 2012. As of December 31, 2009, we had no outstanding indebtedness under our credit facility. Our credit facility imposes numerous restrictions and covenants, including prescribed consolidated leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios, 17 Table of Contents net worth requirements, and acquisition limitations that restrict our financial and operating flexibility, including our ability to make certain acquisitions above specified values and declare dividends without lender approval. As a result of the restrictions and covenants imposed under our credit facility, our growth strategy may be negatively impacted by our inability to act with complete flexibility, or our inability to use our credit facility in the manner intended. If we are in default at a time when funds under the credit facility are required to finance an acquisition, or if a proposed acquisition does not satisfy the pro forma financial requirements under our credit facility, we may be unable to use the credit facility in the manner intended, and our operations, liquidity, and capital resources could be materially adversely affected. Adverse equity and credit market conditions may have a material adverse affect on our liquidity or our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms. The securities and credit markets have been experiencing significant volatility and disruption over the past eighteen months. The availability of credit from virtually all types of lenders has been significantly affected. Such conditions may persist throughout 2010. In the event we need access to additional capital to pay our operating expenses, make payments on our indebtedness, pay capital expenditures, fund net worth requirements, or fund acquisitions, our ability to obtain such capital may be limited and the cost of any such capital may be significant. Our access to additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as prevailing economic and equity and credit market conditions, the general availability of credit, our credit ratings and credit capacity, and perceptions of our financial prospects. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities take negative actions against us. If a combination of these factors were to occur, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all. We derive our premium revenues from a relatively small number of state health plans. We currently derive our premium revenues from nine state health plans. If we were unable to continue to operate in any of those nine states, or if our current operations in any portion of the states we are in were significantly curtailed, our revenues could decrease materially. Our reliance on operations in a limited number of states could cause our revenue and profitability to change suddenly and unexpectedly depending on an abrupt loss of membership, significant rate reductions, a loss of a material contract, legislative actions, changes in Medicaid eligibility methodologies, catastrophic claims, an epidemic or an unexpected increase in utilization, general economic conditions, and similar factors in those states. Our inability to continue to operate in any of the states in which we currently operate, or a significant change in the nature of our existing operations, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. Portions of our premium revenue are subject to accounting estimates or retroactive adjustment. Certain elements of the premium revenue earned by our Florida, New Mexico, Ohio, Texas, and Utah health plans, and by our Medicare Advantage plans, are subject to accounting estimates. Such estimates may subsequently prove to be inaccurate or may require adjustment based upon factual developments. If our accounting estimates with respect to our anticipated premiums are inaccurate or previously recognized premiums require retroactive adjustment, the change in our revenues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. Minimum medical cost floors could limit our profitability. Our New Mexico health plan is subject to a minimum medical expense level as a percentage of the premium revenue it receives. Our Florida health plan is subject to minimum behavioral health expense levels as a percentage of its behavioral health premium revenues. In both states, premium revenue recoupment may occur if these levels are not met. In addition, our Ohio health plan is subject to certain limits on its administrative costs, and our Texas health plan is required to pay an experience rebate to the state of Texas in the event its profits exceed certain established levels. Other states may adopt similar medical cost floors. For instance, a proposal has been made in the 18 Table of Contents state of Washington to establish a minimum medical cost floor of 86% of premiums received. These regulatory requirements or new requirements could limit our ability to increase or maintain our overall profits as a percentage of revenues. Moreover, state governments may disagree with our interpretation or application of the contract provisions governing these medical cost floor requirements, which could result in our having to adjust the amount of our obligations under these provisions. Any changes to the terms of these provisions, or the adoption of new or similar provisions, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. Failure to attain profitability in any new start-up operations could negatively affect our results of operations. Start-up costs associated with a new business can be substantial. For example, to obtain a certificate of authority to operate as a health maintenance organization in most jurisdictions, we must first establish a provider network, have infrastructure and required systems in place, and demonstrate our ability to obtain a state contract and process claims. Often we are also required to contribute significant capital to fund mandated net worth requirements, performance bonds or escrows, or contingency guaranties. If we were unsuccessful in obtaining the certificate of authority, winning the bid to provide services, or attracting members in sufficient numbers to cover our costs, any new business of ours would fail. We also could be required by the state to continue to provide services for some period of time without sufficient revenue to cover our ongoing costs or to recover our significant start-up costs. Even if we are successful in establishing a profitable health plan in a new state, increasing membership, revenues, and medical costs will trigger increased mandated net worth requirements which could substantially exceed the net income generated by the health plan. Rapid growth in an existing state will also create increased net worth requirements. In such circumstances we may not be able to fund on a timely basis or at all the increased net worth requirements with our available cash resources. The expenses associated with starting up a health plan in a new state or expanding a health plan in an existing state could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. Difficulties in executing our acquisition strategy could adversely affect our business. The acquisitions of other health plans and the assignment and assumption of Medicaid contract rights of other health plans have accounted for a significant amount of our growth over the last several years. Although we cannot predict with certainty our rate of growth as the result of acquisitions, we believe that additional acquisitions of all sizes will be important to our future growth strategy. Many of the other potential purchasers of these assets — particularly operators of large commercial health plans — have significantly greater financial resources than we do. Also, many of the sellers may insist on selling assets that we do not want, such as commercial lines of business, or may insist on transferring their liabilities to us as part of the sale of their companies or assets. Even if we identify suitable targets, we may be unable to complete acquisitions on terms favorable to us or obtain the necessary financing for these acquisitions. Further, to the extent we complete an acquisition, we may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits from such acquisition because of operational factors or difficulty in integrating the acquisition with our existing business. This may include problems involving the integration of: • additional employees who are not familiar with our operations or our corporate culture, • new provider networks which may operate on terms different from our existing networks, • additional members who may decide to transfer to other health care providers or health plans, • disparate information, claims processing, and record keeping systems, • internal controls and accounting policies, including those which require the exercise of judgment and complex estimation processes, such as estimates of claims incurred but not reported, accounting for goodwill, intangible assets, stock-based compensation, and income tax matters, and • new regulatory schemes, relationships, practices, and compliance requirements. Also, we are generally required to obtain regulatory approval from one or more state agencies when making acquisitions. In the case of an acquisition of a business located in a state in which we do not already operate, we would be required to obtain the necessary licenses to operate in that state. In addition, although we may already 19 Table of Contents operate in a state in which we acquire a new business, we would be required to obtain regulatory approval if, as a result of the acquisition, we will operate in an area of that state in which we did not operate previously. We may be unable to obtain the necessary governmental approvals or comply with these regulatory requirements in a timely manner, if at all. For all of the above reasons, we may not be able to consummate our proposed acquisitions as announced from time to time to sustain our pattern of growth or to realize benefits from completed acquisitions. In order to close on the acquisition of the HIM business, the parties must first obtain regulatory approvals from each of the states of West Virginia, Louisiana, New Jersey, Idaho, Maine, and Florida, as well as various consents to assignment of contract by various vendors. In addition, the parties must also satisfy numerous other conditions to closing. There can be no assurances that the parties will be successful in obtaining the necessary state approvals or contract assignments. In the event the parties are unable to satisfy all of the closing conditions, the Company may be unable to close on its acquisition of the HIM business. Ineffective management of our growth may negatively affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Depending on acquisitions and other opportunities, we expect to continue to grow our membership and to expand into other markets. In fiscal year 2006, we had total premium revenue of $2.0 billion. In fiscal year 2009, we had total premium revenue of $3.7 billion, an increase of 84% over a four-year span. Continued rapid growth could place a significant strain on our management and on other Company resources. Our ability to manage our growth may depend on our ability to strengthen our management team and attract, train, and retain skilled employees, and our ability to implement and improve operational, financial, and management information systems on a timely basis. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, due to the initial substantial costs related to acquisitions, rapid growth could adversely affect our short-term profitability and liquidity. Any changes to the laws and regulations governing our business, or the interpretation and enforcement of those laws or regulations, could cause us to modify our operations and could negatively impact our operating results. Our business is extensively regulated by the federal government and the states in which we operate. The laws and regulations governing our operations are generally intended to benefit and protect health plan members and providers rather than managed care organizations. The government agencies administering these laws and regulations have broad latitude in interpreting and applying them. These laws and regulations, along with the terms of our government contracts, regulate how we do business, what services we offer, and how we interact with members and the public. For instance, some states mandate minimum medical expense levels as a percentage of premium revenues. These laws and regulations, and their interpretations, are subject to frequent change. The interpretation of certain contract provisions by our governmental regulators may also change. Changes in existing laws or regulations, or their interpretations, or the enactment of new laws or regulations, could reduce our profitability by imposing additional capital requirements, increasing our liability, increasing our administrative and other costs, increasing mandated benefits, forcing us to restructure our relationships with providers, or requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems. Changes in the interpretation of our contracts could also reduce our profitability if we have detrimentally relied on a prior interpretation. We face periodic routine and non-routine reviews, audits, and investigations by government agencies, and these reviews and audits could have adverse findings, which could negatively impact our business. We are subject to various routine and non-routine governmental reviews, audits, and investigations. Violation of the laws, regulations, or contract provisions governing our operations, or changes in interpretations of those laws, could result in the imposition of civil or criminal penalties, the cancellation of our contracts to provide managed care services, the suspension or revocation of our licenses, the exclusion from participation in government sponsored health programs, or the revision and recoupment of past payments made based on audit findings. If we become subject to material fines or if other sanctions or other corrective actions were imposed upon us, we might suffer a substantial reduction in profitability, and might also lose one or more of our government contracts and as a result lose significant numbers of members and amounts of revenue. In addition, government receivables are subject to government audit and negotiation, and government contracts are vulnerable to disagreements with the government. The final amounts we ultimately receive under government contracts may be different from the amounts we initially recognize in our financial statements. 20 Table of Contents Our business depends on our information and medical management systems, and our inability to effectively integrate, manage, and keep secure our information and medical management systems, could disrupt our operations. Our business is dependent on effective and secure information systems that assist us in, among other things, processing provider claims, monitoring utilization and other cost factors, supporting our medical management techniques, and providing data to our regulators. Our providers also depend upon our information systems for membership verifications, claims status, and other information. If we experience a reduction in the performance, reliability, or availability of our information and medical management systems, our operations, ability to pay claims, and ability to produce timely and accurate reports could be adversely affected. In addition, if the licensor or vendor of any software which is integral to our operations were to become insolvent or otherwise fail to support the software sufficiently, our operations could be negatively affected. Our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading, and enhancement to meet our operational needs. Moreover, our acquisition activity requires transitions to or from, and the integration of, various information systems. If we experience difficulties with the transition to or from information systems or are unable to properly implement, maintain, upgrade or expand our system, we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions, loss of members, difficulty in attracting new members, regulatory problems, and increases in administrative expenses. Our business requires the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, or other events or developments could result in compromises or breaches of our security systems and member data stored in our information systems. Anyone who circumvents our security measures could misappropriate our confidential information or cause interruptions in services or operations. The internet is a public network, and data is sent over this network from many sources. In the past, computer viruses or software programs that disable or impair computers have been distributed and have rapidly spread over the internet. Computer viruses could be introduced into our systems, or those of our providers or regulators, which could disrupt our operations, or make our systems inaccessible to our members, providers, or regulators. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. Because of the confidential health information we store and transmit, security breaches could expose us to a risk of regulatory action, litigation, possible liability and loss. Our security measures may be inadequate to prevent security breaches, and our business operations would be negatively impacted by cancellation of contracts and loss of members if security breaches are not prevented. Because our corporate headquarters are located in Southern California, our business operations may be significantly disrupted as a result of a major earthquake. Our corporate headquarters is located in Long Beach, California. In addition, the claims of our health plans are also processed in Long Beach. Southern California is exposed to a statistically greater risk of a major earthquake than most other parts of the country. If a major earthquake were to strike the Los Angeles and Long Beach area, our corporate functions and claims processing could be significantly impaired for a substantial period of time. Although we have established a disaster recovery and business resumption plan with back-up operating sites to be deployed in the case of such a major disruptive event, there can be no assurances that the disaster recovery plan will be successful or that the business operations of all our health plans, including those that are remote from any such event, would not be substantially impacted by a major Southern California earthquake. If we are unable to maintain good relations with the physicians, hospitals, and other providers with whom we contract, or if we are unable to enter into cost-effective contracts with such providers, our profitability could be adversely affected. We contract with physicians, hospitals, and other providers as a means to assure access to health care services for our members, to manage health care costs and utilization, and to better monitor the quality of care being delivered. In any particular market, providers could refuse to contract with us, demand higher payments, or take other actions which could result in higher health care costs, disruption to provider access for current members, a decline in our growth rate, or difficulty in meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. 21 Table of Contents The Medicaid program generally pays doctors and hospitals at levels well below those of Medicare and private insurance. Large numbers of doctors, therefore, do not accept Medicaid patients. In the face of fiscal pressures, some states may reduce rates paid to providers, which may further discourage participation in the Medicaid program. In some markets, certain providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital organizations, and some specialists, may have significant market positions or even monopolies. If these providers refuse to contract with us or utilize their market position to negotiate favorable contracts which are disadvantageous to us, our profitability in those areas could be adversely affected. Some providers that render services to our members are not contracted with our plans. In those cases, there is no pre-established understanding between the provider and our plan about the amount of compensation that is due to the provider. In some states, the amount of compensation is defined by law or regulation, but in most instances it is either not defined or it is established by a standard that is not clearly translatable into dollar terms. In such instances, providers may believe they are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with our plan. The uncertainty of the amount to pay and the possibility of subsequent adjustment of the payment could adversely affect our business, financial position, cash flows, or results of operations. The insolvency of a delegated provider could obligate us to pay their referral claims which could have an adverse effect on our business, cash flows, or results of operations. Circumstances may arise where providers to whom we have delegated risk, due to insolvency or other circumstances, are unable to pay claims they have incurred with third parties in connection with referral services provided to our members. The inability of delegated providers to pay referral claims presents us with both immediate financial risk and potential disruption to member care. Depending on states’ laws, we may be held liable for such unpaid referral claims even though the delegated provider has contractually assumed such risk. Additionally, competitive pressures may force us to pay such claims even when we have no legal obligation to do so. To reduce the risk that delegated providers are unable to pay referral claims, we monitor the operational and financial performance of such providers. We also maintain contingency plans that include transferring members to other providers in response to potential network instability. In certain instances, we have required providers to place funds on deposit with us as protection against their potential insolvency. These funds are frequently in the form of segregated funds received from the provider and held by us or placed in a third-party financial institution. These funds may be used to pay claims that are the financial responsibility of the provider in the event the provider is unable to meet these obligations. However, there can be no assurances that these precautionary steps will fully protect us against the insolvency of a delegated provider. Liabilities incurred or losses suffered as a result of provider insolvency could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. Regulatory actions and negative publicity regarding Medicaid managed care and Medicare Advantage may lead to programmatic changes and intensified regulatory scrutiny and regulatory burdens. Several of our health care competitors have recently been involved in governmental investigations and regulatory actions which have resulted in significant volatility in the price of their stock. In addition, there has been negative publicity and proposed programmatic changes regarding Medicare Advantage private fee-for-service plans, a part of the Medicare Advantage program in which the Company does not participate. These actions and the resulting negative publicity could become associated with or imputed to the Company, regardless of the Company’s actual regulatory compliance or programmatic participation. Such an association, as well as any perception of a recurring pattern of abuse among the health plan participants in government programs and the diminished reputation of the managed care sector as a whole, could result in public distrust, political pressure for changes in the programs in which the Company does participate, intensified scrutiny by regulators, additional regulatory requirements and burdens, increased stock volatility due to speculative trading, and heightened barriers to new managed care markets and contracts, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. 22 Table of Contents If a state fails to renew its federal waiver application for mandated Medicaid enrollment into managed care or such application is denied, our membership in that state will likely decrease. States may only mandate Medicaid enrollment into managed care under federal waivers or demonstrations. Waivers and programs under demonstrations are approved for two-year periods and can be renewed on an ongoing basis if the state applies. We have no control over this renewal process. If a state does not renew its mandated program or the federal government denies the state’s application for renewal, our business would suffer as a result of a likely decrease in membership. We face claims related to litigation which could result in substantial monetary damages. We are subject to a variety of legal actions, including medical malpractice actions, provider disputes, employment related disputes, and breach of contract actions. In the event we incur liability materially in excess of the amount for which we have insurance coverage, our profitability would suffer. In addition, our providers involved in medical care decisions are exposed to the risk of medical malpractice claims. Providers at the 17 primary care clinics we operate in California are employees of our California health plan. As a direct employer of physicians and ancillary medical personnel and as an operator of primary care clinics, our California plan is subject to liability for negligent acts, omissions, or injuries occurring at one of its clinics or caused by one of its employees. We maintain medical malpractice insurance for our clinics in the amount of $1 million per occurrence, and an annual aggregate limit of $3 million, errors and omissions insurance in the amount of $15 million per occurrence and in aggregate for each policy year, and such other lines of coverage as we believe are reasonable in light of our experience to date. However, given the significant amount of some medical malpractice awards and settlements, this insurance may not be sufficient or available at a reasonable cost to protect us from damage awards or other liabilities. Even if any claims brought against us were unsuccessful or without merit, we would have to defend ourselves against such claims. The defense of any such actions may be time-consuming and costly, and may distract our management’s attention. As a result, we may incur significant expenses and may be unable to effectively operate our business. Furthermore, claimants often sue managed care organizations for improper denials of or delays in care, and in some instances improper authorizations of care. Claims of this nature could result in substantial damage awards against us and our providers that could exceed the limits of any applicable medical malpractice insurance coverage. Successful malpractice or tort claims asserted against us, our providers, or our employees could adversely affect our financial condition and profitability. We cannot predict the outcome of any lawsuit with certainty. While we currently have insurance coverage for some of the potential liabilities relating to litigation, other such liabilities may not be covered by insurance, the insurers could dispute coverage, or the amount of insurance could be insufficient to cover the damages awarded. In addition, insurance coverage for all or certain types of liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future or the deductible on any such insurance coverage could be set at a level which would result in us effectively self-insuring cases against us. Although we establish reserves for litigation as we believe appropriate, we cannot assure you that our recorded reserves will be adequate to cover such costs. Therefore, the litigation to which we are subject could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations, and could prompt us to change our operating procedures. We are subject to competition which negatively impacts our ability to increase penetration in the markets we serve. We operate in a highly competitive environment and in an industry that is subject to ongoing changes from business consolidations, new strategic alliances, and aggressive marketing practices by other managed care organizations. We compete for members principally on the basis of size, location, and quality of provider network, benefits supplied, quality of service, and reputation. A number of these competitive elements are partially dependent upon and can be positively affected by the financial resources available to a health plan. Many other organizations with which we compete, including large commercial plans, have substantially greater financial and 23 Table of Contents other resources than we do. For these reasons, we may be unable to grow our membership, or may lose members to other health plans. If state regulators do not approve payments of dividends and distributions by our subsidiaries, it may negatively affect our business strategy. We are a corporate parent holding company and hold most of our assets at, and conduct most of our operations through direct subsidiaries. As a holding company, our results of operations depend on the results of operations of our subsidiaries. Moreover, we are dependent on dividends or other intercompany transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service and other obligations. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments or advances to us will depend on their operating results and will be subject to applicable laws and restrictions contained in agreements governing the debt of such subsidiaries. In addition, our health plan subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations that limit the amount of dividends and distributions that they can pay to us without prior approval of, or notification to, state regulators. In California, our health plan may dividend, without notice to or approval of the California Department of Managed Health Care, amounts by which its tangible net equity exceeds 130% of the tangible net equity requirement. Our other health plans must give thirty days advance notice and the opportunity to disapprove “extraordinary” dividends to the respective state departments of insurance for amounts over the lesser of (a) ten percent of surplus or net worth at the prior year end or (b) the net income for the prior year. The discretion of the state regulators, if any, in approving or disapproving a dividend is not clearly defined. Health plans that declare non-extraordinary dividends must usually provide notice to the regulators ten or fifteen days in advance of the intended distribution date of the non-extraordinary dividend. The aggregate amounts our health plan subsidiaries could have paid us at December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 without approval of the regulatory authorities were approximately $9.0 million, $7.6 million, and $18.7 million, respectively. If the regulators were to deny or significantly restrict our subsidiaries’ requests to pay dividends to us, the funds available to our company as a whole would be limited, which could harm our ability to implement our business strategy. For example, we could be hindered in our ability to make debt service payments under our credit facility and/or our senior convertible notes. Unforeseen changes in regulations or pharmaceutical market conditions may impact our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations. A significant category of our health care costs relate to pharmaceutical products and services. Evolving regulations and state and federal mandates regarding coverage may impact the ability of our health plans to continue to receive existing price discounts on pharmaceutical products for our members. Other factors affecting our pharmaceutical costs include, but are not limited to, the price of pharmaceuticals, geographic variation in utilization of new and existing pharmaceuticals, and changes in discounts. The unpredictable nature of these factors may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and stock price. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our future testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 will continue to require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management time and effort. Moreover, if we are not able to continue to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NYSE, SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. 24 Table of Contents Volatility of our stock price could adversely affect stockholders. Since our initial public offering in July 2003, the sales price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $16.12 to a high of $53.23. A number of factors will continue to influence the market price of our common stock, including: • state and federal budget pressures, • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates, if any, of public market analysts, • announcements relating to our business or the business of our competitors, • changes in government payment levels, • adverse publicity regarding health maintenance organizations and other managed care organizations, • government action regarding member eligibility, • changes in state mandatory programs, • conditions generally affecting the managed care industry or our provider networks, • the success of our operating or acquisition strategy, including our acquisition of the HIM business of Unisys Corporation, • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies in the health care industry, • the termination of our Medicaid or CHIP contracts with state or county agencies, or subcontracts with other Medicaid managed care organizations that contract with such state or county agencies, • regulatory or legislative change, and • general economic conditions, including unemployment rates, inflation, and interest rates. Our stock may not trade at the same levels as the stock of other health care companies or the market in general. Also, if the trading market for our stock does not continue to develop, securities analysts may not maintain or initiate research coverage of our Company and our shares, and this could depress the market for our shares. Members of the Molina family own a majority of our capital stock, decreasing the influence of other stockholders on stockholder decisions. Members of the Molina family, either directly or as trustees or beneficiaries of Molina family trusts, in the aggregate own or are entitled to receive upon certain events approximately 57% of our capital stock. Our president and chief executive officer, as well as our chief financial officer, are members of the Molina family, and they are also on our board of directors. Because of the amount of their shareholdings, Molina family members, if they were to act as a group with the trustees of their family trusts, have the ability to significantly influence all matters submitted to stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors, amendments to our charter, and any merger, consolidation, or sale of our Company. A significant concentration of share ownership can also adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors often discount the value of stock in companies that have controlling stockholders. Furthermore, the concentration of share ownership in the Molina family could delay or prevent a merger or consolidation, takeover, or other business combination that could be favorable to our stockholders. Finally, the interests and objectives of the Molina family may be different from those of our company or our other stockholders, and they may vote their common stock in a manner that is contrary to the vote of our other stockholders. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire our Company, which could inhibit stockholders from realizing a premium on their stock price. We are subject to the Delaware anti-takeover laws regulating corporate takeovers. These provisions may prohibit stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. In 25 Table of Contents addition, any change in control of our state health plans would require the approvals of the applicable insurance regulator in each state in which we operate. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws also contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of our Company that stockholders may consider favorable or beneficial. These provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include: • a staggered board of directors, so that it would take three successive annual meetings to replace all directors, • prohibition of stockholder action by written consent, and • advance notice requirements for the submission by stockholders of nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting. In addition, changes of control are often subject to state regulatory notification, and in some cases, prior approval. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have not declared or paid any dividends since our initial public offering in July 2003. While we have in the past and may again use our available cash to repurchase our securities, we do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Changes in accounting may affect our results of operations. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and related implementation guidelines and interpretations can be highly complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation, the adoption of new pronouncements or the application of existing pronouncements to our business could significantly affect our results of operations. Our investments in auction rate securities are subject to risks that may cause losses and have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. As of December 31, 2009, our investments in auction rate securities included amounts designated as available-for-sale securities totaling $26.9 million par value (fair value of $23.0 million). As a result of the changes in fair value of auction rate securities designated as available-for-sale, we recorded unrealized gains of $0.8 million ($0.5 million, net of tax) to accumulated other comprehensive income for the year ended December 31, 2009, and we recorded unrealized losses of $7.6 million ($4.7 million, net of tax) to other comprehensive loss for the year ended December 31, 2008. We deem the cumulative unrealized losses on these securities to be temporary and attribute the decline in value to liquidity issues, as a result of the failed auction market, rather than to credit issues. Any future fluctuation in fair value related to these instruments that we deem to be temporary, including any recoveries of previous write-downs, would be recorded to accumulated other comprehensive loss. If we determine that any future valuation adjustment was other-than-temporary, we would record a charge to earnings as appropriate. For our investments in auction rate securities, we do not intend to sell, nor is it more likely than not that we will be required to sell, these investments before recovery of their cost. However, if we were to sell these investments before recovery of their cost, we would be required to record a charge to earnings for any accumulated losses, which would impact our earnings for the quarter in which such event occurred. The value of our investments is influenced by varying economic and market conditions, and a decrease in value could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Our investments consist solely of investment-grade debt securities. The unrestricted portion of this portfolio is designated primarily as available-for-sale. Our non-current restricted investments are designated as held-to-maturity. Available-for-sale investments are carried at fair value, and the unrealized gains or losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive loss as a separate component of stockholders’ equity, unless the decline in value is deemed to be other-than-temporary and we do not have the intent and ability to hold such securities until their full 26 Table of Contents cost can be recovered. Trading securities are carried at fair value and any realized gains or losses are included as a component of earnings. For our available-for-sale investments and held-to-maturity investments, if a decline in value is deemed to be other-than-temporary and we do not have the intent and ability to hold such security until its full cost can be recovered, the security is deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired and it is written down to fair value and the loss is recorded as an expense. In accordance with applicable accounting standards, we review our investment securities to determine if declines in fair value below cost are other-than-temporary. This review is subjective and requires a high degree of judgment. We conduct this review on a quarterly basis, using both quantitative and qualitative factors, to determine whether a decline in value is other-than-temporary. Such factors considered include the length of time and the extent to which market value has been less than cost, the financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer, recommendations of investment advisors and forecasts of economic, market or industry trends. This review process also entails an evaluation of our ability and intent to hold individual securities until they mature or full cost can be recovered. The current economic environment and recent volatility of the securities markets increase the difficulty of assessing investment impairment and the same influences tend to increase the risk of potential impairment of these assets. Over time, the economic and market environment may further deteriorate or provide additional insight regarding the fair value of certain securities, which could change our judgment regarding impairment. This could result in realized losses relating to other-than-temporary declines or losses related to our trading securities to be recorded as an expense. Given the current market conditions and the significant judgments involved, there is continuing risk that further declines in fair value may occur and material other-than-temporary impairments or trading security losses may result in realized losses in future periods which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. Another flu epidemic in 2010 or other kind of epidemic in one or more of the states in which we operate a health plan could significantly increase utilization rates and medical costs. Our results during 2009 were significantly impacted by the widespread incidence of the H1N1 flu in the states in which we operate our health plans. The recurrence in 2010 of the H1N1 flu, another variant of the flu, or the outbreak and rapid spread of any other highly contagious and potentially virulent disease, could increase the utilization rates among our members, resulting in significantly increased outpatient, inpatient, emergency room, and pharmacy costs. An unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential member information could have an adverse effect on our business. As part of our normal operations, we collect, process, and retain confidential member information. We are subject to various federal and state laws and rules regarding the use and disclosure of confidential member information, including HIPAA and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 further expands the coverage of HIPAA by, among other things, extending the privacy and security provisions, mandating new regulations around electronic medical records, expanding enforcement mechanisms, allowing the state Attorneys General to bring enforcement actions and increasing penalties for violations. Despite the security measures we have in place to ensure compliance with applicable laws and rules, our facilities and systems, and those of our third party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure or use of confidential member information, whether by us or a third party, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. We are subject to income taxes in the United States. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in states with different statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in U.S. tax laws and regulations, and changes in our interpretations of tax laws, including pending tax 27 Table of Contents law changes. In addition, we are subject to the routine examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other local and state tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our estimated income tax liabilities. Adverse outcomes from tax examinations, or the accounting reversal of any tax benefits or revenue previously recognized by the Company, could have an adverse effect on our provision for income taxes, estimated income tax liabilities, or results of operations. We are dependent on our executive officers and other key employees. Our operations are highly dependent on the efforts of our executive officers. The loss of their leadership, knowledge, and experience could negatively impact our operations. Replacing many of our executive officers might be difficult or take an extended period of time because a limited number of individuals in the managed care industry have the breadth and depth of skills and experience necessary to operate and expand successfully a business such as ours. Our success is also dependent on our ability to hire and retain qualified management, technical, and medical personnel. We may be unsuccessful in recruiting and retaining such personnel which could negatively impact our operations. Risks Related to the Operation of the Health Information Management Business The following risk factors are contingent upon the successful closing of our acquisition of the HIM business of Unisys Corporation, which is expected to close in the first half of 2010. We intend to operate the HIM business under the name, Molina Medicaid Solutions. We have not previously operated a health information management business. Our Company and senior management personnel have not previously operated a health information management business such as the HIM business, and there may be various aspects of the business with which we are unfamiliar. Although we expect most of the existing HIM business personnel to join our Company to continue to operate the HIM business, our lack of familiarity with the day-to-day operational issues of the HIM business, as well as our lack of experience in responding to requests for proposal to secure new HIM or MMIS business, may negatively impact the growth, future prospects, and the overall profitability of the HIM business. We may have difficulty integrating the HIM business and its operations. In connection with the acquisition of the HIM business, we are hiring approximately 900 new employees. These employees were not previously familiar with our operations or our corporate culture. In addition, to operate the HIM business, we will be required to develop new internal controls, accounting policies, accounting infrastructure, regulatory schemes, compliance requirements, and disclosure controls. Our inability to effectively integrate the new HIM business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. We may be unable to retain or renew the state government contracts of the HIM business on terms consistent with our expectations or at all. The HIM business currently has management contracts in only six states. If, after the closing, we were unable to continue to operate in any of those six states, or if the HIM business’ current operations in any of those six states were significantly curtailed, the revenues and cash flows of the HIM business could decrease materially, and as a result our profitability would be negatively impacted. If we have underestimated the operating cost and capital outlay projections for the HIM business, our profitability could be adversely affected. In negotiating the purchase price for the HIM business, we estimated the operating costs and capital outlays required to operate the business as a Molina entity. In the event we have underestimated the costs associated with the HIM business, the profitability of that business may be significantly less than expected. 28 Table of Contents Because of the complexity and duration of the services and systems required to be delivered under the government contracts of the HIM business, there are substantial risks associated with full performance under the contracts. The state contracts of the HIM business typically require significant investment in the early stages that is expected to be recovered through billings over the life of the contracts. These contracts involve the construction of new computer systems and communications networks and the development and deployment of complex technologies. Substantial performance risk exists under each contract. Some or all elements of service delivery under these contracts are dependent upon successful completion of the design, development, construction, and implementation phases. Any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of these contracts, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could make these contracts less profitable or unprofitable, which could have an adverse effect on our overall business, financial conditions, cash flows, or results of operations. If we fail to comply with our state government contracts or government contracting regulations, our business may be adversely affected. The contracts of the HIM business with state government customers may include unique and specialized performance requirements. In particular, contracts with state government customers are subject to various procurement regulations, contract provisions, and other requirements relating to their formation, administration, and performance. Any failure to comply with the specific provisions in our customer contracts or any violation of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of the contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and the imposition of fines, and suspension from future government contracting. Further, any negative publicity related to the HIM business’ state government contracts or any proceedings surrounding them may damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts. The termination of a state government contract, our suspension from government work, or any negative impact on our ability to compete for new contracts, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial conditions, cash flows, or results of operations. System security risks and systems integration issues that disrupt our internal operations or information technology services provided to customers could adversely affect our financial results or damage our reputation. Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. Computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including “bugs” and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and the efforts to address these problems could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential government customers. The HIM business routinely processes, stores, and transmits large amounts of data for our clients, including sensitive and personally identifiable information. Breaches of our security measures could expose us, our customers, or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, resulting in litigation and potential liability for us and damage to our brand and reputation. Accordingly, we could lose existing or potential government customers for outsourcing services or other information technology solutions or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers’ system failures or any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products. In addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. Portions of our information technology infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays, or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to 29 Table of Contents time. We may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time consuming, disruptive, and resource-intensive. Such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other processes. Delayed sales, lower margins, or lost government customers resulting from these disruptions could adversely affect our financial results, reputation, and stock price. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission which were received more than 180 days before the end of our 2009 fiscal year. 