Item 1A: Risk Factors RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully read and consider the following risk factors, as well as other information we include or incorporate by reference in this report and the information in the other reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. If any of the following events actually occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, or prospects could be materially adversely affected. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently deem immaterial may also become important factors that may materially affect us. Our profitability depends on our ability to accurately predict and effectively manage our medical care costs. Our profitability depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to accurately predict and effectively manage our medical care costs. Historically, our medical care cost ratio, meaning our medical care costs as a percentage of our premium revenue, has fluctuated, and has also varied across our state health plans. Because the premium payments we receive are generally fixed in advance and we operate with a narrow profit margin, relatively small changes in our medical care cost ratio can create significant changes in our financial results. For example, if our overall medical care ratio for 2007 of 84.5% had been one percentage point higher, or 85.5%, our earnings for the year would have been $1.50 per diluted share rather than our actual 2007 earnings of $2.05 per diluted share, a 27% reduction in earnings. Factors that may affect our medical care costs include the level of utilization of healthcare services, increases in hospital costs or pharmaceutical costs, an increased incidence or acuity of high dollar claims related to catastrophic illness for which we do not have adequate reinsurance coverage, increased maternity costs, payment rates that are not actuarially sound, changes in state eligibility certification methodologies, unexpected patterns in the annual flu season, relatively low levels of hospital and specialty provider competition in certain geographic areas, increases in the cost of pharmaceutical products and services, changes in healthcare regulations and practices, epidemics, new medical technologies, and other external factors such as general economic conditions, inflation, interest rate fluctuations, or federal or state budgetary issues. Many of these factors are beyond our control and could reduce our ability to accurately predict and effectively manage the costs of providing health care services. The inability to forecast and manage our medical care costs or to establish and maintain a satisfactory medical care cost ratio, either with respect to a particular state health plan or across the consolidated entity, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. For additional information regarding this risk, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies.” A failure to accurately estimate incurred but not reported medical care costs may negatively impact our results of operations. Because of the significant time lag between when medical services are actually rendered by our providers and when we receive, process, and pay a claim for those medical services, we must continually estimate our medical claims liability at particular points in time, and establish claims reserves related to such estimates. Our estimated reserves for such “incurred but not reported,” or IBNR medical care costs, are based on numerous assumptions. We estimate our medical claims liabilities using actuarial methods based on historical data adjusted for claims receipt and payment experience (and variations in that experience), changes in membership, provider billing practices, health care service utilization trends, cost trends, product mix, seasonality, prior authorization of medical services, benefit changes, known outbreaks of disease or increased incidence of illness such as influenza, provider contract 12 Table of Contents changes, changes to Medicaid fee schedules, and the incidence of high dollar or catastrophic claims. Our ability to accurately estimate claims for our newer HMOs in Missouri, Ohio, and Texas is impacted by the limited claims payment history of those HMOs. Likewise, our ability to accurately estimate claims for our newer lines of business or populations, such as with respect to Medicare Advantage or aged, blind, or disabled Medicaid members, is likewise impacted by the more limited experience we have had with those populations. The IBNR estimation methods we use and the resulting reserves that we establish are reviewed and updated, and adjustments, if deemed necessary, are reflected in the current period. Given the uncertainties inherent in such estimates, our actual claims liabilities for particular periods could differ significantly from the amounts estimated and reserved. Our actual claims liabilities have varied and will continue to vary from our estimates, particularly in times of significant changes in utilization, medical cost trends, and populations and markets served. If our actual liability for claims payments is higher than estimated, our earnings per share in any particular quarter or annual period could be negatively affected. Our estimates of IBNR may be inadequate in the future, which would negatively affect our results of operations for the relevant time period. Furthermore, if we are unable to accurately estimate IBNR, our ability to take timely corrective actions may be limited, further exacerbating the extent of the negative impact on our results. For additional information regarding this risk, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies.” There are numerous risks associated with the growth of our Ohio HMO. Membership at our Ohio HMO has grown rapidly, and the medical care ratio of our Ohio plan has been substantially higher than that historically experienced by the Company as a whole. In 2007, the medical care ratio of our Ohio plan was 90.4%. For 2008, we have projected that we can lower the medical care ratio of our Ohio plan to approximately 88%. In the event we are unable to do so, our higher than expected medical care ratio in Ohio could negatively impact the financial performance of the Company as a whole. In addition, the lower amount of experience of our Ohio Medicaid and ABD members in accessing managed care, of our local providers in coordinating managed care services for their patients, and our relative lack of experience in operating in that state, may also contribute to a higher than average medical care ratio. In addition, as our Ohio plan continues to grow, we will be required to increase the amount of regulatory capital we contribute to it. In December 2007, we were required to contribute $32.5 million in additional regulatory capital to our Ohio plan. If we are required to contribute additional capital in the future, our existing cash balances or cash from operations may not be sufficient to cover such payments, in which case we would be required to draw down on our credit facility or obtain additional financing from another source and thereby incur additional indebtedness. In the event we are unable to lower our medical care ratio in Ohio, or if the Ohio plan requires a disproportionate investment of corporate energy and resources or is otherwise unsuccessful, the poor performance of that health plan could detrimentally impact the financial performance of the Company as a whole. If our government contracts are not renewed or are terminated, or if the RFP bids of our health plans are not successful, our premium revenues could be materially reduced. Our contracts generally run for periods of from one year to four years, and may be successively extended by amendment for additional periods if the relevant state agency so elects. Our current contracts expire on various dates over the next several years. There is no guarantee that our contracts will be renewed or extended. For example, in the fall of 2006, we were informed that the contract of our Indiana HMO to provide Medicaid services would not be extended beyond its expiration date of December 31, 2006. Moreover, our contracts may be opened for bidding by competing healthcare providers. As an example of that, our New Mexico health plan recently submitted a bid in response to the request for proposals of the New Mexico Medicaid authority for the new Salud! Medicaid managed care contract. In addition, all of our contracts may be terminated for cause if we breach a material provision of the contract or violate relevant laws or regulations. Our contracts with the states are also subject to cancellation by the state in the event of unavailability of state or federal funding. In some jurisdictions, such cancellation may be immediate and in other jurisdictions a notice period is required. In addition, most contracts are terminable without cause. We may face increased competition as other plans (many with greater financial resources and greater name recognition) attempt to enter our markets through the contracting process. If we are unable to renew, successfully re-bid, or compete for any of our government contracts, or if any of our contracts are terminated or renewed on less favorable terms, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents We derive a majority of our premium revenues from operations in a small number of states. Operations in California, Michigan, New Mexico, Ohio, Utah, and Washington accounted for most of our premium revenues in 2007. If we were unable to continue to operate in any of those states or in any other states in which we have a health plan, or if our current operations in any portion of the states we are in were significantly curtailed, our revenues could decrease materially. Our reliance on operations in a limited number of states could cause our revenue and profitability to change suddenly and unexpectedly depending on a loss of a material contract, legislative actions, changes in Medicaid eligibility methodologies, catastrophic claims, an epidemic or unexpected increase in utilization, general economic conditions, and similar factors in those states. Our inability to continue to operate in any of the states in which we currently operate could adversely affect our results of operations. A sustained drop in the rate of interest earned on our invested balances could adversely affect our revenues. Our revenues from invested balances were $30.1 million in 2007. We have projected that, on average in fiscal year 2008, our invested balances will earn interest at the rate of at least 4%. However, due to the slowing growth in the economy at the beginning of 2008, the Federal Reserve Bank Board has effected a series of cuts to the target federal funds interest rate. These rate cuts lower the interest rate we can achieve on our invested balances. For every one-quarter drop in interest rates, our investment income will be reduced by approximately $1.8 million. In the event the interest earned on our invested balances throughout 2008 averages less than 4% per annum, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we are unable to achieve our projected growth in Medicare members or our projected medical care ratio with respect to our Medicare program, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business strategy includes increasing enrollment for our members who are dually eligible under both the Medicaid and Medicare programs, as well as increasing the number of our members eligible under Medicare alone. Our experience with the Medicare program and with Medicare members is much more limited than our experience with Medicaid. The administrative processes, programmatic requirements, and regulations pertaining to the Medicare program differ significantly from those of the Medicaid program. Likewise, the Medicare population has many characteristics and behavior patterns which differ from the Medicaid population with which we are familiar. Finally, Medicare providers, provider networks, and provider relations also differ from those of Medicaid. During 2008, we will continue to invest heavily in the infrastructure necessary to grow our Medicare program. We have projected that we will add 5,000 Medicare members in 2008, and that our medical care ratio with respect to our Medicare members will be approximately 85%. In the event we are unable to enroll as many Medicare members as we project or are unable to maintain a medical care ratio of no greater than 85%, or if we are unable to quickly develop our Medicare expertise and adapt to the differing requirements and needs of the Medicare program and Medicare members, our business strategy may be unsuccessful and our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. Medicaid and SCHIP funding is subject to political disagreements over budgetary funding and efforts to control governmental spending in order to balance federal and/or state budgets. Nearly all of our revenues come from federal and state funding of the Medicaid and SCHIP programs. Because these governmental health care programs account for such a large portion of federal and state budgets, efforts to contain overall governmental spending and to achieve a balanced budget often result in significant political pressure being directed at the funding for these programs. The funding of our various Medicaid contracts, or the rate increases we expect to obtain during the course of a year, can thus be put at risk whenever there is a federal or state budget impasse, a budgetary crisis, or political disagreement that is not quickly resolved. For example: • In the summer of 2007, passage of the 2008 budget for the State of California was months overdue, thereby threatening the funding of our California health plan’s contracts with the state. In early 2008, due to a mounting state budget deficit, the California Legislature passed and Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger signed a 10% across-the-board cut to most California government-funded programs, including the reimbursement rates paid to physicians under Medi-Cal as well as Medi-Cal outpatient fees. The cuts are 14 Table of Contents scheduled to be implemented on July 1, 2008 unless an alternative budget is passed and signed before that date. • The Michigan state government briefly shut down on October 1, 2007 due to lack of agreement on a significant budget shortfall in that state. • Funding under the federal SCHIP program, which provided 2.1% of our total premium revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007, is subject to an ongoing political disagreement between the United States Congress and President Bush. While it is unclear when a political compromise might be reached, the SCHIP program has been extended on its existing terms through March 31, 2009. Overall Medicaid enrollment and costs are projected to continue to increase over the next several years. These increasing costs, combined with an economic slowdown or recession in 2008, will exert additional budgetary pressures on federal and state governments. In the event of a recession, an extended budgetary or political impasse at either the federal or state level, the failure of the California legislature to pass an alternative budget with less draconian cuts to Medi-Cal provider rates, the failure of the states of Michigan, Missouri, or Texas to provide our health plans in those states with their expected rate increases, or the non-renewal of the SCHIP program, the funding of one or more of our contracts could be curtailed or cut off which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Funding under our contracts is also subject to regulatory and programmatic adjustments and reforms for which we may not be appropriately compensated. The federal government and the governments of the states in which we operate frequently consider legislative and regulatory proposals regarding Medicaid reform and programmatic changes. Such proposals involve, among other things, changes in reimbursement or payment levels based on certain parameters or member characteristics, changes in eligibility for Medicaid, and changes in benefits covered such as pharmacy, behavioral health, or vision. Any of these changes could be made effective retroactively. If our cost increases resulting from these changes are not matched by commensurate increases in our revenue, we would be unable to make offsetting adjustments, such as supplemental premiums or changes in our benefit plans, as would a commercial health plan. For example, as part of its periodic rebasing of diagnostic-related group (DRG) rates to adjust for changes in hospital cost experience, effective August 1, 2007, the state of Washington recalibrated the relative weights used in its DRG reimbursement system for in-patient hospital claims. The changes were intended to be budget neutral, but corresponding increases were not made to the amounts paid to managed care organizations such as our Washington health plan until January 1, 2008. As a result, the Washington DRG rebasing increased our Washington plan’s medical care costs for the second half of 2007 without a compensating increase in payments to the Washington plan. Any other such regulatory or programmatic reforms at either the federal or state level could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Difficulties in executing our acquisition strategy could adversely affect our business. The acquisitions of Medicaid contract rights and other health plans have accounted for a significant amount of our growth over the last several years. For example, on November 1, 2007, we acquired Mercy CarePlus, an HMO in Missouri. Although we cannot predict with certainty our rate of growth as the result of acquisitions, we believe that additional acquisitions of all sizes will be important to our future growth strategy. Many of the other potential purchasers of these assets — particular operators of commercial health plans — have significantly greater financial resources than we do. Also, many of the sellers may insist on selling assets that we do not want, such as commercial lines of business, or may insist on transferring their liabilities to us as part of the sale of their companies or assets. Even if we identify suitable targets, we may be unable to complete acquisitions on terms favorable to us or obtain the necessary financing for these acquisitions. Further, to the extent we complete an acquisition, we may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits from such acquisition because of operational factors or difficulty in integrating the acquisition with our existing business. This may include problems involving the integration of: • additional employees who are not familiar with our operations or our corporate culture, • new provider networks which may operate on terms different from our existing networks, 15 Table of Contents • additional members who may decide to transfer to other health care providers or health plans, • disparate information, claims processing, and record keeping systems, • internal controls and accounting policies, including those which require the exercise of judgment and complex estimation processes, such as estimates of claims incurred but not reported, accounting for goodwill, intangible assets, stock-based compensation, and income tax matters, and • new regulatory schemes, relationships, practices, and compliance requirements. Also, we are generally required to obtain regulatory approval from one or more state agencies when making acquisitions. In the case of an acquisition of a business located in a state in which we do not already operate, we would be required to obtain the necessary licenses to operate in that state. In addition, although we may already operate in a state in which we acquire a new business, we would be required to obtain regulatory approval if, as a result of the acquisition, we will operate in an area of that state in which we did not operate previously. We may be unable to obtain the necessary governmental approvals or comply with these regulatory requirements in a timely manner, if at all. For all of the above reasons, we may not be able to consummate our proposed acquisitions as announced from time to time to sustain our pattern of growth or to realize benefits from completed acquisitions. Ineffective management of our growth may negatively affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Depending on acquisitions and other opportunities, we expect to continue to grow our membership and to expand into other markets. In fiscal year 2004, we had total premium revenue of $1,171 million. In fiscal year 2007, we had total premium revenue of $2,462 million, an increase of 110% over a three-year span. Continued rapid growth could place a significant strain on our management and on other Company resources. Our ability to manage our growth may depend on our ability to strengthen our management team and attract, train, and retain skilled employees, and our ability to implement and improve operational, financial, and management information systems on a timely basis. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, due to the initial substantial costs related to acquisitions, rapid growth could adversely affect our short-term profitability and liquidity. Any changes to the laws and regulations governing our business, or the interpretation and enforcement of those laws or regulations, could cause us to modify our operations and could negatively impact our operating results. Our business is extensively regulated by the federal government and the states in which we operate. The laws and regulations governing our operations are generally intended to benefit and protect health plan members and providers rather than managed care organizations. The government agencies administering these laws and regulations have broad latitude in interpreting and applying them. These laws and regulations, along with the terms of our government contracts, regulate how we do business, what services we offer, and how we interact with members and the public. For instance, some states mandate minimum medical expense levels as a percentage of premium revenues. These laws and regulations, and their interpretations, are subject to frequent change. The interpretation of certain contract provisions by our governmental regulators may also change. Changes in existing laws or regulations, or their interpretations, or the enactment of new laws or regulations, could reduce our profitability by imposing additional capital requirements, increasing our liability, increasing our administrative and other costs, increasing mandated benefits, forcing us to restructure our relationships with providers, or requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems. Changes in the interpretation of our contracts could also reduce our profitability if we have detrimentally relied on a prior interpretation. We are subject to various routine and non-routine governmental reviews, audits, and investigations. Violation of the laws governing our operations, or changes in interpretations of those laws, could result in the imposition of civil or criminal penalties, the cancellation of our contracts to provide managed care services, the suspension or revocation of our licenses, and exclusion from participation in government sponsored health programs, including Medicaid and SCHIP. If we become subject to material fines or if other sanctions or other corrective actions were imposed upon us, we might suffer a substantial reduction in profitability, and might also lose one or more of our 16 Table of Contents government contracts and as a result lose significant numbers of members and amounts of revenue. In addition, government receivables are subject to government audit and negotiation, and government contracts are vulnerable to disagreements with the government. The final amounts we ultimately receive under government contracts may be different from the amounts we initially recognize in our financial statements. States may only mandate Medicaid enrollment into managed care under federal waivers or demonstrations. Waivers and programs under demonstrations are typically approved for multi-year periods and can be renewed on an ongoing basis if the state applies. We have no control over this renewal process. If a state does not renew its mandated program or the federal government denies the state’s application for renewal, our business would suffer as a result of a likely decrease in membership. Our business depends on our information and medical management systems, and our inability to effectively integrate, manage, and keep secure our information and medical management systems could disrupt our operations. Our business is dependent on effective and secure information systems that assist us in, among other things, monitoring utilization and other cost factors, supporting our medical management techniques, processing provider claims, and providing data to our regulators. Our providers also depend upon our information systems for membership verifications, claims status, and other information. If we experience a reduction in the performance, reliability, or availability of our information and medical management systems, our operations and ability to produce timely and accurate reports could be adversely affected. In addition, if the licensor or vendor of any software which is integral to our operations were to become insolvent or otherwise fail to support the software sufficiently, our operations could be negatively affected. Our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading, and enhancement to meet our operational needs. Moreover, our acquisition activity requires transitions to or from, and the integration of, various information systems. Our policy is to upgrade and expand our information systems capabilities. If we experience difficulties with the transition to or from information systems or are unable to properly implement, maintain, upgrade or expand our system, we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions, loss of members, difficulty in attracting new members, regulatory problems, and increases in administrative expenses. Our business requires the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, or other events or developments could result in compromises or breaches of our security systems and client data stored in our information systems. Anyone who circumvents our security measures could misappropriate our confidential information or cause interruptions in services or operations. The internet is a public network, and data is sent over this network from many sources. In the past, computer viruses or software programs that disable or impair computers have been distributed and have rapidly spread over the internet. Computer viruses could be introduced into our systems, or those of our providers or regulators, which could disrupt our operations, or make our systems inaccessible to our members, providers, or regulators. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. Because of the confidential health information we store and transmit, security breaches could expose us to a risk of regulatory action, litigation, possible liability and loss. Our security measures may be inadequate to prevent security breaches, and our business operations would be negatively impacted by cancellation of contracts and loss of members if they are not prevented. If we are unable to maintain good relations with the physicians, hospitals, and other providers with whom we contract, or if we are unable to enter into cost-effective contracts with such providers, our profitability could be adversely affected. We contract with physicians, hospitals, and other providers as a means to assure access to health care services for our members, to manage health care costs and utilization, and to better monitor the quality of care being delivered. In any particular market, providers could refuse to contract with us, demand higher payments, or take other actions which could result in higher health care costs, disruption to provider access for current members, a decline in our growth rate, or difficulty in meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. 17 Table of Contents In some markets, certain providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital organizations, and some specialists, may have significant market positions or even monopolies. If these providers refuse to contract with us or utilize their market position to negotiate favorable contracts which are disadvantageous to us, our profitability in those areas could be adversely affected. Some providers that render services to our members are not contracted with our plans. In those cases, there is no pre-established understanding between the provider and our plan about the amount of compensation that is due to the provider. In some states, the amount of compensation is defined by law or regulation, but in most instances it is either not defined or it is established by a standard that is not clearly translatable into dollar terms. In such instances, providers may believe they are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with our plan. The uncertainty of the amount to pay and the possibility of subsequent adjustment of the payment could adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. Failure to attain profitability in any new start-up operations or in connection with our expansion into Medicare could negatively affect our results of operations. Start-up costs associated with a new business can be substantial. For example, in order to obtain a certificate of authority to operate as a health maintenance organization in most jurisdictions, we must first establish a provider network, have infrastructure and required systems in place, and demonstrate our ability to obtain a state contract and process claims. Often we are also required to contribute significant capital in order to fund mandated net worth requirements, performance bonds or escrows, or contingency guaranties. If we were unsuccessful in obtaining the certificate of authority, winning the bid to provide services, or attracting members in sufficient numbers to cover our costs, any new business of ours would fail. We also could be required by the state to continue to provide services for some period of time without sufficient revenue to cover our ongoing costs or to recover our significant start-up costs. Even if we are successful in establishing a profitable HMO in a new state, increasing membership, revenues, and medical costs will trigger increased mandated net worth requirements which could substantially exceed the net income generated by the HMO. Rapid growth in an existing state will also create increased net worth requirements. In such circumstances we may not be able to fund on a timely basis or at all the increased net worth requirements with our available cash resources. The expenses associated with starting up a health plan in a new state or expanding a health plan in an existing state could have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Likewise, our expansion into Medicare involves substantial start-up costs for which there may be minimal associated revenue. For example, we must hire sales personnel and establish a rigorous and comprehensive compliance program. The expenses associated with our expansion into Medicare could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. High profile qui tam matters and negative publicity regarding Medicaid managed care and Medicare Advantage may lead to programmatic changes, intensified regulatory scrutiny, or “guilt by association.” Certain of our competitors have recently been involved in high profile qui tam or “whistleblower” actions which have resulted in significant volatility in the price of their stock. Because of the limited number of health care companies competing in our market space, these whistleblower actions and investigations, and the resulting negative publicity, could become associated with or imputed to the Company, regardless of the Company’s actual regulatory compliance. Such an association, as well as any perception of a recurring pattern of abuse among the health plan participants in these government programs and the diminished reputation of the managed care sector as a whole, could result in public distrust, political pressure for programmatic changes, intensified scrutiny by regulators, increased stock volatility due to speculative trading, and heightened barriers to new managed care markets and contracts, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 18 Table of Contents If a state fails to renew its federal waiver application for mandated Medicaid enrollment into managed care or such application is denied, our membership in that state will likely decrease. States may only mandate Medicaid enrollment into managed care under federal waivers or demonstrations. Waivers and programs under demonstrations are approved for two-year periods and can be renewed on an ongoing basis if the state applies. We have no control over this renewal process. If a state does not renew its mandated program or the federal government denies the state’s application for renewal, our business would suffer as a result of a likely decrease in membership. We face claims related to litigation which could result in substantial monetary damages. We are subject to a variety of legal actions, including medical malpractice actions, provider disputes, employment related disputes, and breach of contract actions. In the event we incur liability materially in excess of the amount for which we have insurance coverage, our profitability would suffer. In addition, our providers involved in medical care decisions are exposed to the risk of medical malpractice claims. Providers at the 19 primary care clinics we operate in California are employees of our California health plan. As a direct employer of physicians and ancillary medical personnel and as an operator of primary care clinics, our California plan is subject to liability for negligent acts, omissions, or injuries occurring at one of its clinics or caused by one of its employees. We maintain medical malpractice insurance for our clinics in the amount of $1 million per occurrence, and an annual aggregate limit of $3 million, errors and omissions insurance in the amount of $10 million per occurrence and in aggregate for each policy year, and such other lines of coverage as we believe are reasonable in light of our experience to date. However, given the significant amount of some medical malpractice awards and settlements, this insurance may not be sufficient or available at a reasonable cost to protect us from damage awards or other liabilities. Even if any claims brought against us were unsuccessful or without merit, we would have to defend ourselves against such claims. The defense of any such actions may be time-consuming and costly, and may distract our management’s attention. As a result, we may incur significant expenses and may be unable to effectively operate our business. Furthermore, claimants often sue managed care organizations for improper denials of or delays in care, and in some instances improper authorizations of care. Also, Congress and several state legislatures have considered legislation that would permit managed care organizations to be held liable for negligent treatment decisions or benefits coverage determinations. If this or similar legislation were enacted, claims of this nature could result in substantial damage awards against us and our providers that could exceed the limits of any applicable medical malpractice insurance coverage. Successful malpractice or tort claims asserted against us, our providers, or our employees could adversely affect our financial condition and profitability. We cannot predict the outcome of any lawsuit with certainty. While we currently have insurance coverage for some of the potential liabilities relating to litigation, other such liabilities may not be covered by insurance, the insurers could dispute coverage, or the amount of insurance could be insufficient to cover the damages awarded. In addition, insurance coverage for all or certain types of liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future or the deductible on any such insurance coverage could be set at a level which would result in us effectively self-insuring cases against us. Although we have established reserves for litigation as we believe appropriate, we cannot assure you that our recorded reserves will be adequate to cover such costs. Therefore, the litigation to which we are subject could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows and could prompt us to change our operating procedures. The Medicaid citizenship documentation requirements may adversely impact the enrollment levels of our health plans. The United States Department of Health and Human Services requires persons applying for Medicaid to document their citizenship. The documentation requirement is outlined in Section 6036 of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 and is intended to ensure that Medicaid beneficiaries are United States citizens without imposing undue burdens on them or the states. The rule requires actual documentary evidence before Medicaid eligibility is granted or renewed. The provision requires that a person provide both evidence of citizenship and identity. In many cases, a 19 Table of Contents single document will be enough to establish both citizenship and identity, such as a passport. However, if secondary documentation is used, such as a birth certificate, the individual will also need evidence of his or her identity. Affidavits can only be used in rare circumstances. Additional types of documentation, such as school records, may be used for children. Once citizenship has been proven, it need not be documented again with each eligibility renewal unless later evidence raises a question. Each state must implement its own process for assuring compliance with documentation of citizenship in order to obtain federal matching funds, and effective compliance is part of Medicaid program integrity monitoring. In particular, audit processes track the extent to which a state relies on lower categories of documentation, and on affidavits, with the expectation that such categories would be used relatively infrequently and less over time, as state processes and beneficiary documentation improves. Because this rule is relatively new and states have varied their compliance processes since its implementation, it is unclear what the full impact will be on the enrollment levels of our various state HMOs. The rule could result in the disenrollment of a material number of our members, thereby decreasing our premium revenues. As a result, this proof of citizenship requirement could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We are subject to competition which negatively impacts our ability to increase penetration in the markets we serve. We operate in a highly competitive environment and in an industry that is currently subject to significant changes from business consolidations, new strategic alliances, and aggressive marketing practices by other managed care organizations. We compete for members principally on the basis of size, location, and quality of provider network, benefits supplied, quality of service, and reputation. A number of these competitive elements are partially dependent upon and can be positively affected by the financial resources available to a health plan. Many other organizations with which we compete, including large commercial plans, have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. For these reasons, we may be unable to grow our membership, or may lose members to other health plans. Restrictions and covenants in our credit facility may limit our ability to make certain acquisitions. In order to provide liquidity, we have a $200 million senior secured credit facility that matures in May 2012. As of December 31, 2007, we had no outstanding indebtedness under our credit facility. Our credit facility imposes numerous restrictions and covenants, including prescribed debt coverage ratios, net worth requirements, and acquisition limitations that restrict our financial and operating flexibility, including our ability to make certain acquisitions above specified values and declare dividends without lender approval. As a result of the restrictions and covenants imposed under our credit facility, our growth strategy may be negatively impacted by our inability to act with complete flexibility, or our inability to use our credit facility in the manner intended. If we are in default at a time when funds under the credit facility are required to finance an acquisition, or if a proposed acquisition does not satisfy the pro forma financial requirements under our credit facility, we may be unable to use the credit facility in the manner intended. In addition, if we were to draw down on our credit facility, or incur other additional debt in the future, it could have an adverse effect on our business and future operations. For example, it could: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce funds available to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, and other general operating requirements; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. Our ability to obtain any financing, whether through the issuance of new debt securities or otherwise, and the terms of any such financing are dependent on, among other things, our financial condition, financial market 20 Table of Contents conditions within our industry and generally, credit ratings, and numerous other factors. There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance our credit facility and obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time frame, if at all. If we are unable to obtain financing on terms and within a time frame acceptable to us it could, in addition to other negative effects, have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, ability to compete or ability to comply with regulatory requirements. We are dependent on our executive officers and other key employees. Our operations are highly dependent on the efforts of our executive officers. The loss of their leadership, knowledge, and experience could negatively impact our operations. Replacing many of our executive officers might be difficult or take an extended period of time because a limited number of individuals in the managed care industry have the breadth and depth of skills and experience necessary to operate and expand successfully a business such as ours. Our success is also dependent on our ability to hire and retain qualified management, technical, and medical personnel. We may be unsuccessful in recruiting and retaining such personnel which could negatively impact our operations. A pandemic, such as a worldwide outbreak of a new influenza virus, could materially and adversely affect our ability to control health care costs. An outbreak of a pandemic disease, such as the H5N1 avian flu, could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. The impact of a flu pandemic on the United States would likely be substantial. Estimates of the contagion and mortality rate of any mutated avian flu virus that can be transmitted from human to human are highly speculative. A significant global outbreak of avian flu among humans could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition as a result of increased inpatient and outpatient hospital costs and the cost of anti-viral medication to treat the virus. Because our corporate headquarters and claims processing facilities are located in Southern California, our business operations may be significantly disrupted as a result of a major earthquake. Our corporate headquarters, centralized claims processing, finance, and information technology support functions are located in Long Beach, California. Southern California is located along the San Andreas fault and is thus exposed to a statistically greater risk of a major earthquake than most other parts of the country. If a major earthquake were to strike the Los Angeles and Long Beach area, our claims processing and other corporate functions could be significantly impaired for a substantial period of time. Although we have established a disaster recovery and business resumption plan with back-up operating sites to be deployed in the case of such a major disruptive event, there can be no assurances that the business operations of all our health plans, including those that are remote from any such event, would not be substantially impacted by a major earthquake. Our results of operations could be negatively impacted by both upturns and downturns in general economic conditions. The number of persons eligible to receive Medicaid benefits has historically increased more rapidly during periods of rising unemployment, corresponding to less favorable general economic conditions. However, during such economic downturns, state and federal tax receipts could decrease, causing states to attempt to cut health care programs, benefits, and rates. If federal or state funding were decreased while our membership was increasing, our results of operations would be negatively affected. Conversely, the number of persons eligible to receive Medicaid benefits may grow more slowly or even decline if economic conditions improve. Therefore, improvements in general economic conditions may cause our membership levels and profitability to decrease, which could lead to decreases in our operating income. If state regulators do not approve payments of dividends and distributions by our subsidiaries, it may negatively affect our business strategy. We are a corporate parent holding company and hold most of our assets at, and conduct most of our operations through, direct and indirect subsidiaries. As a holding company, our results of operations depend on the results of 21 Table of Contents operations of our subsidiaries. Moreover, we are dependent on dividends or other intercompany transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service and other obligations. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments or advances to us will depend on their operating results and will be subject to applicable laws and restrictions contained in agreements governing the debt of such subsidiaries. In addition, our health plan subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations that limit the amount of dividends and distributions that they can pay to us without prior approval of, or notification to, state regulators. In California, our health plan may dividend, without notice to or approval of the California Department of Managed Health Care, amounts by which its tangible net equity exceeds 130% of the tangible net equity requirement. In Michigan, New Mexico, Ohio, Texas, Utah, and Washington, our health plans must give thirty days advance notice and the opportunity to disapprove “extraordinary” dividends to the respective state departments of insurance for amounts over the lesser of (a) ten percent of surplus or net worth at the prior year end or (b) the net income for the prior year. The discretion of the state regulators, if any, in approving or disapproving a dividend is not clearly defined. Health plans that declare non-extraordinary dividends must usually provide notice to the regulators ten or fifteen days in advance of the intended distribution date of the non-extraordinary dividend. The aggregate amounts our health plan subsidiaries could have paid us at December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 without approval of the regulatory authorities were approximately $18.7 million, $6.9 million, and $4.3 million, respectively. If the regulators were to deny or significantly restrict our subsidiaries’ requests to pay dividends to us, the funds available to our company as a whole would be limited, which could harm our ability to implement our business strategy. For example, we could be hindered in our ability to make debt service payments under our credit facility and/or our senior convertible notes. Unforeseen changes in regulations or pharmaceutical market conditions may impact our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations. A significant category of our health care costs relate to pharmaceutical products and services. Evolving regulations and state and federal mandates regarding coverage may impact the ability of our HMOs to continue to receive existing price discounts on pharmaceutical products for our members. Other factors affecting our pharmaceutical costs include, but are not limited to, the price of pharmaceuticals, geographic variation in utilization of new and existing pharmaceuticals, and changes in discounts. The unpredictable nature of these factors may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and stock price. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls over our financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our future testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 will continue to require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management time and effort. Moreover, if we are not able to continue to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NYSE, SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. Volatility of our stock price could adversely affect stockholders. Since our initial public offering in July 2003, the sales price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $20.00 to a high of $53.23. A number of factors will continue to influence the market price of our common stock, including: • state and federal budget decreases, • adverse publicity regarding health maintenance organizations and other managed care organizations, 22 Table of Contents • government action regarding member eligibility, • changes in government payment levels, • a change in control of the Presidency or of Congress from one party to the other, • changes in state mandatory programs, • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates, if any, of public market analysts, • announcements relating to our business or the business of our competitors, • conditions generally affecting the managed care industry or our provider networks, • the success of our operating or acquisition strategy, • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies in the healthcare industry, • the termination of our Medicaid or SCHIP contracts with state or county agencies, or subcontracts with other Medicaid managed care organizations that contract with such state or county agencies, • regulatory or legislative change, and • general economic conditions, including inflation, interest rates, and unemployment rates. Our stock may not trade at the same levels as the stock of other health care companies and the market in general may not sustain its current prices. Also, if the trading market for our stock does not continue to develop, securities analysts may not initiate or maintain research coverage of our company and our shares, and this could further depress the market for our shares. Our directors and officers and members of the Molina family own a majority of our capital stock, decreasing the influence of other stockholders on stockholder decisions. Our executive officers and directors, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 20% of our capital stock, and members of the Molina family (some of whom are also officers or directors), in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 53% of our capital stock, either directly or in trusts of which members of the Molina family are beneficiaries. In some cases, members of the Molina family are trustees of the trusts. As a result, Molina family members, acting by themselves or together with our officers and directors, have the ability to significantly influence all matters submitted to stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors, amendments to our charter, and any merger, consolidation, or sale of substantially all of our assets. A significant concentration of share ownership can also adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors often discount the value of stock in companies that have controlling stockholders. Furthermore, the concentration of ownership in our company could delay, defer, or prevent a merger or consolidation, takeover, or other business combination that could be favorable to our stockholders. Finally, the interests and objectives of our controlling stockholders may be different from those of our company or our other stockholders, and our controlling stockholders may vote their common stock in a manner that may adversely affect our other stockholders. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire our company, which could inhibit stockholders from realizing a premium on their stock price. We are subject to the Delaware anti-takeover laws regulating corporate takeovers. These provisions may prohibit stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws also contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of our company that stockholders may consider favorable or beneficial. These provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include: • a staggered board of directors, so that it would take three successive annual meetings to replace all directors, 23 Table of Contents • prohibition of stockholder action by written consent, and • advance notice requirements for the submission by stockholders of nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting. In addition, changes of control are often subject to state regulatory notification, and in some cases, prior approval. Our forecasts and other forward-looking statements are based on a variety of assumptions that are subject to significant uncertainties. Our performance may not be consistent with these forecasts and forward-looking statements. From time to time in press releases and otherwise, we may publish earnings guidance, forecasts, or other forward-looking statements regarding our future results, including estimated revenues, net earnings, and other operating and financial metrics. Any forecast of our future performance reflects numerous assumptions. These assumptions are subject to significant uncertainties, and as a matter of course, any number of them may prove to be incorrect. For example, our earnings guidance issued on January 18, 2007 assumed that the membership of our Ohio HMO would grow during 2007 to approximately 160,000 members, an assumption which proved to be inaccurate (actual membership in Ohio grew to 136,000 at December 31, 2007). Further, the achievement of any forecast depends on numerous risks and other factors, including those described in this report, many of which are beyond our control. As a result, we cannot assure that our performance will be consistent with any management forecasts or that the variation from such forecasts will not be material and adverse. You are cautioned not to base your entire analysis of our business and prospects upon isolated predictions, but instead are encouraged to utilize the entire publicly available mix of historical and forward-looking information, as well as other available information affecting us and our services, when evaluating our prospective results of operations. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have not declared or paid any dividends since our initial public offering in July 2003, and we currently anticipate that we will retain any future earnings for the development and operation of our business. Accordingly, we do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Our ability to deduct interest on our convertible notes for U.S. federal income tax purposes may be reduced or eliminated and as a result our after-tax cash flow could be adversely affected. In October 2007, we completed our offering of $200 million aggregate principal amount of 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2014. Under Section 279 of the Internal Revenue Code, deductions otherwise allowable to a corporation for interest may be reduced or eliminated in the case of corporate acquisition indebtedness, which is generally defined to include subordinated convertible debt issued to provide consideration for the acquisition of stock or a substantial portion of the assets of another corporation, if either (i) the acquiring corporation has a debt to equity ratio (measured, in part, with reference to tax basis) that exceeds 2 to 1 or (ii) the projected earnings of the corporation (the average annual earnings, determined with certain adjustments, for the three-year period ending on the test date) do not exceed three times the annual interest costs of the corporation. At the present time, based on our current and expected operational metrics for the current taxable year (as specifically calculated for purposes of the debt to equity ratio and projected earnings tests referred to in the preceding sentence), we do not expect our convertible notes to qualify as corporate acquisition indebtedness. However, our actual operational metrics could differ from our expectations and, as a result, our deductions for interest on our convertible notes could be reduced or eliminated if our convertible notes meet the definition of corporate acquisition indebtedness in 2007, the taxable year in which the notes were issued. In addition, our convertible notes could become corporate acquisition indebtedness in a subsequent taxable year if we initially meet the debt to equity ratio and projected earnings tests, but later fail one or both tests in a year during which we issue additional indebtedness for certain corporate acquisitions. If we are not entitled to deduct interest on our convertible notes, our after-tax cash flow could be adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents Conversion of our senior convertible notes may dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. Our convertible notes are convertible into cash and, under certain circumstances, shares of our common stock. The conversion of some or all of our convertible notes may dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of our common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the anticipated conversion of the convertible notes into cash and shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. The accounting method for convertible debt securities with net share settlement, like our $200 million senior convertible notes, could change in a manner that may affect our results of operations. In August 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued an exposure draft of a proposed FASB Staff Position (the “Proposed FSP”) reflecting new rules that would change the accounting for certain convertible debt instruments, including our convertible notes. Under the proposed new rules for convertible debt instruments that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion, an entity should separately account for the liability and equity components of the instrument in a manner that reflects the issuer’s economic interest cost. The effect of the proposed new rules for our convertible note is that the equity component would be included in the paid-in-capital section of stockholders’ equity on our balance sheet and the value of the equity component would be treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of our convertible notes. Higher interest expense would result by recognizing accretion of the discounted carrying value of our convertible notes to their face amount as interest expense over the term of our convertible notes. We believe FASB plans to issue final guidance in the first half of 2008. This Proposed FSP is expected to be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, would not permit early application, and would be applied retrospectively to all periods presented. We are currently evaluating the proposed new rules and cannot quantify the impact at this time. However, if the Proposed FSP is adopted, we expect to have higher interest expense in 2009 due to the interest expense accretion, and prior period interest expense associated with our convertible notes would also reflect higher than previously reported interest expense due to retrospective application. In addition, for purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share, a convertible debt security providing for net share settlement upon conversion and meeting specified requirements under Emerging Issues Task Force, or EITF, Issue No. 00-19, “Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed to, and Potentially Settled in, a Company’s Own Stock,” is currently accounted for in a manner similar to non-convertible debt, with the stated coupon constituting interest expense and any shares issuable upon conversion of the security accounted for under the treasury stock method. The effect of the treasury stock method is that the shares potentially issuable upon conversion of our convertible notes are not included in the calculation of our earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of our convertible notes exceeds their principal amount, in which event, for earnings per share purposes, we would account for the transaction as if we had issued the number of shares of our common stock necessary to settle the conversion. The Proposed FSP does not affect the earnings per share accounting for convertible instruments such as our convertible notes. Our investments in auction rate securities are subject to risks that may cause losses and have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. As of December 31, 2007, $82.1 million of our total $242.9 million in short-term investments were comprised of municipal note investments with an auction reset feature (“auction rate securities”). These notes are issued by various state and local municipal entities for the purpose of financing student loans, public projects and other activities; they carry a AAA credit rating. $74.1 million of the $82.1 million are secured by student loans which are generally 97% guaranteed by the U.S. Government under the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP). In addition to the U.S. Government guarantee on such student loans, some of the securities also have separate insurance policies guaranteeing both the principal and accrued interest. Liquidity for these auction rate securities is typically provided by an auction process which allows holders to sell their notes and resets the applicable interest rate at pre-determined intervals up to 35 days. Recently, auctions for some of these auction rate securities have failed and there is no assurance that auctions on the remaining auction rate securities in our investment portfolio will succeed. An auction failure means that the parties wishing to sell their securities could not be matched with an adequate volume of buyers. In the event that there is a failed auction the indenture governing the security requires 25 Table of Contents the issuer to pay interest at a contractually defined rate that is generally above market rates for other types of similar short-term instruments. The securities for which auctions have failed will continue to accrue interest at the contractual rate and be auctioned every 7, 28, or 35 days until the auction succeeds, the issuer calls the securities, or they mature. As a result, our ability to liquidate and fully recover the carrying value of our auction rate securities in the near term may be limited or not exist. All of these investments are currently classified as short-term investments. If the credit ratings of the security issuers deteriorate or if normal market conditions do not return in the near future, we may be required to reduce the value of these securities through an impairment charge against net income and reflect them as long-term investments on our balance sheet for the period ending March 31, 2008 or thereafter. As of February 29, 2008, the Company held $75.6 million of auction rate securities. $71.1 million of these securities are secured by student loans which are generally 97% guaranteed by the U.S. Government under FFELP. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION This report and the documents we incorporate by reference in this report contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). All statements, other than statements of historical facts, that we include in this report and in the documents we incorporate by reference in this report, may be deemed forward-looking statements for purposes of the Securities Act and the Securities Exchange Act. We use the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “project,” “should,” “will,” “would” and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words. We cannot guarantee that we actually will achieve the plans, intentions, or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements and, accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. There are a number of important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from the forward-looking statements that we make, including the factors discussed above and also the factors included in the documents we incorporate by reference in this report. We wish to caution readers that these factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements. In addition, those factors should be considered in conjunction with any discussion of our results of operations herein or in other period reports, as well as in conjunction with all of our press releases, presentations to securities analysts or investors, or other communications by us. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s analysis, judgment, belief, or expectation only as of the date thereof. Except as may be required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that arise after the date on which the forward-looking statement was made. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. 