Item 1A. Risk Factors Before investing in any of our securities, you should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risks could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition and cause the trading price of our securities to decline. You could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business The current financial crisis has resulted in unprecedented levels of market volatility, which may significantly affect our business, results of operations, ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital. Global capital markets and the economy generally, in both the United States and elsewhere, have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption since the second half of 2007, due in part to financial stresses affecting the liquidity of the banking system and the financial markets generally. In recent months, this volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. Concerns over the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market, a declining real estate market in the U.S., energy costs and geopolitical issues, among other factors, have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the capital markets generally going forward. These circumstances have also exerted downward pressure on stock prices and reduced access to the equity and debt markets for many issuers, including the Company. This unprecedented market volatility and general decline in the markets has directly and materially affected the value and liquidity of our investment portfolio, results of operations, access to capital and cost of capital. We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our ordinary shares and preferred shares, maintain our securities lending activities and replace certain maturing liabilities. Without sufficient liquidity, we may be forced to curtail our operations, which would have the potential to materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. The principal sources of our liquidity are insurance premiums and cash flow from our investment portfolio and assets. Sources of liquidity in normal markets also include a variety of short- and long-term instruments, including indebtedness, preferred securities and ordinary shares. 18 In the event current resources do not satisfy our liquidity needs, we may need to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large investment losses or if the level of our business activity decreases due to a downturn in the insurance and reinsurance markets. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. Our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business. Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities; satisfy statutory capital requirements; generate market-related revenue to meet liquidity needs; and access the capital necessary to grow our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter tenor securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive cost of capital, which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. We are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, and foreign currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. We are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, market volatility, the performance of the economy in general, the performance of the specific obligors included in our portfolio and other factors outside our control. Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in interest rates. A rise in interest rates, in the absence of other countervailing changes, will increase the net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolio. Our mitigation efforts with respect to interest rate risk are primarily focused towards maintaining an investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration that is approximately equal to the duration of our estimated liability cash flow profile. However, our estimate of the liability cash flow profile may be inaccurate, and we may be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to cover the liability. Although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to mitigate the interest rate risk of our assets relative to our liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. Our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in credit spreads. With the recent widening of credit spreads, the net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolio has increased, as have other-than-temporary impairments. If issuer credit spreads continue to widen or increase significantly over an extended period of time, it would likely exacerbate these effects, resulting in greater and additional other-than-temporary impairments. If credit spreads tighten significantly, it will reduce net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed maturities. In addition, a reduction in market liquidity has made it difficult to value certain of our securities as trading has become less frequent. As such, valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may be more susceptible to significant period-to-period changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. Our primary foreign currency exchange risks are related to net income from foreign operations, non-U.S. dollar denominated investments, and investments in foreign subsidiaries. In general, the weakening of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar will unfavorably affect net income from foreign operations, the value of non-U.S. dollar denominated investments, and investments in foreign subsidiaries. Our primary foreign currency exchange risks are described more fully under “We may be adversely affected by foreign currency fluctuations.” A portion of our investment portfolio is allocated to alternative investments, which we expect to have different risk characteristics than our investments in traditional fixed maturity securities and short term investments, which in turn could result in a material adverse change to our investment performance, and accordingly adversely affect our financial results. A portion of our investment portfolio is allocated to alternative investments which we expect to have different risk characteristics than our investments in traditional fixed maturity securities and short term investments. Our alternative investments include investments in funds which invest in senior secured bank debt and high yield securities, distressed debt, derivatives and equity long/short strategies. The amount and timing of net investment income from such alternative funds tends to be uneven as a result of the performance of the underlying investments. The timing of distributions from the funds, which depends on particular events relating to the underlying investments, as well as the funds’ schedules for making distributions and their needs for cash, can be difficult to predict. As a result, the amount of net investment income that we record from these investments can vary substantially from quarter to quarter. Recent equity, real estate and credit market volatility have further reduced net investment income and related yields for these types of investments and we may continue to experience reduced net investment income due to continued volatility in the equity, real estate and credit markets in the future. Many of the investments are subject to restrictions on redemptions and sales which are determined by the governing documents and limit our ability to liquidate these investments in the short term. These investments expose us to market risks including interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, equity price risk and credit risk. In addition, we typically do not hold the underlying securities of these investments in our custody accounts. As a result, we generally do not have the ability to quantify the risks associated with these investments in the same manner for which we have for our fixed maturity securities. The performance of these investments is also dependent on the individual investment managers and the investment strategies. It is possible that the investment managers will leave and/or the investment strategies will become ineffective or that such managers will fail to follow our investment guidelines. Any of the foregoing could result in a material adverse change to our investment performance, and accordingly adversely affect our financial results. 19 The effect that governmental actions for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets will have on such markets generally or on us is difficult to determine at this time. In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and continued concerns about financial institutions ongoing viability, numerous regulatory and governmental actions have been taken or proposed. Within the United States, the Federal Reserve has taken action through reduced federal funds rates and the expansion of acceptable collateral for its loans to provide additional liquidity. Numerous financial institutions have received capital both in the form of emergency loans and direct equity investments by the U.S. Department of Treasury. In early 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “ARRA”) was enacted to provide further stimulus to institutions that have received or will receive financial assistance under the Troubled Asset Relief Program. Within the United Kingdom and the European Union, similar actions including interest rate cuts and capital injections into financial institutions have been undertaken, including certain institutions that are obligors of the perpetual preferred equity securities in our investment portfolio. An additional regulatory concern involving residential mortgage-backed securities is “cram-down legislation” currently under consideration in the U.S. Congress. If passed, this legislation would reallocate losses from defaults of the underlying residential mortgages across all tranches of the security, effectively negating the contractual terms of the security. Approximately 52.2% of our fixed income portfolio, which includes fixed maturity investments, short term investments and preferred equity securities, is in agency and non-agency mortgage-backed securities and as a result, any such action could have a material affect on the value and performance of our investment portfolio. There can be no assurance as to the effect that any such governmental actions or future regulatory initiatives may have on certain investments in our investment portfolio, or on our competitive position, results of operations, business and financial condition in particular. Governmental initiatives intended to alleviate the current financial crisis may not be effective and, may be accompanied by other initiatives, including new capital requirements or other regulations, that could materially affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity in ways that we cannot predict. On October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) was signed into law. The EESA includes a provision to grant the U.S. Treasury Department the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgage-backed and other securities from financial institutions. The EESA was enacted in response to the financial crisis affecting the U.S. banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. The EESA or similar proposals, including the ARRA, as well as companion actions such as monetary or fiscal actions of the U.S. Federal Reserve Board or comparable authorities in other countries, may fail to stabilize the financial markets. These new forms of legislation and other proposals or actions may also have other consequences, including material effects on interest rates, foreign exchange rates and the markets for the financial instruments purchased and sold by the U.S. Department of Treasury pursuant to the EESA or the ARRA, which could materially affect our investments, results of operations and liquidity in ways that we cannot predict. The failure to effectively implement this legislation and related proposals or actions could also result in material adverse effects, notably increased constraints on the liquidity available in the banking system and financial markets and increased pressure on stock prices, any of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and the trading price of our ordinary or preferred shares. In the event of future material deterioration in business conditions, we may need to raise additional capital or consider other transactions to manage our capital position or our liquidity. It is possible that competitors of the Company, such as companies that engage in both life and property casualty insurance lines of business, may be permitted to access funds through the EESA or ARRA programs which could have a negative impact on the Company’s competitive position. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) approved the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (“TLGP”) on November 21, 2008. The program was designed to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in the banking system by guaranteeing newly issued senior unsecured debt of banks, thrifts, and certain holding companies, and by providing full coverage of non-interest bearing deposit transaction accounts, regardless of dollar amount. Because we may purchase securities from the types of companies that are subject to the TLGP, the failure to effectively implement the program could result in an adverse effect on the carrying value of such securities in our investment portfolio if the existence of the FDIC guarantee does not strengthen confidence or encourage liquidity in the marketplace. 20 In addition, we are subject to extensive laws and regulations that are administered and enforced by a number of different governmental authorities and non-governmental self-regulatory agencies. In light of the current financial crisis, some of these authorities are or may in the future consider enhanced or new regulatory requirements intended to prevent future crises or otherwise assure the stability of institutions under their supervision. These authorities may also seek to exercise their supervisory or enforcement authority in new or more robust ways. All of these possibilities, if they occurred, could affect the way we conduct our business and manage our capital, and may require us to satisfy increased capital requirements, any of which in turn could materially affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Losses due to defaults by others, including issuers of investment securities (which include structured securities such as commercial mortgage-backed securities and residential mortgage-backed securities or other high yielding bonds) or reinsurance counterparties, could adversely affect the value of our investments, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Issuers or borrowers whose securities or loans we hold, customers, reinsurers, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries and guarantors may default on the principal and interest they owe to us due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure, fraud or other reasons. We are also subject to the risk that the underlying collateral within loan-backed securities, including mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, may default on principal and interest payments causing an adverse change in cash flows paid to us. At December 31, 2008, the fixed income securities of $4.0 billion in our investment portfolio represented 74.9% of our total cash and invested assets. The occurrence of a major economic downturn (such as the current downturn in the economy), acts of corporate malfeasance, widening risk spreads, or other events that adversely impact the issuers, guarantors or underlying collateral of these securities could cause the value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio and our net income to decline and the default rate of the fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolio to increase. A ratings downgrade affecting issuers or guarantors of particular securities, or similar trends that could worsen the credit quality of issuers, such as the corporate issuers of securities in our investment portfolio, could also have a similar effect. With economic uncertainty, credit quality of issuers or guarantors could be adversely affected. Similarly, a ratings downgrade affecting a loan-backed security we hold could indicate the credit quality of that security has deteriorated. Any event reducing the value of these securities other than on a temporary basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Levels of write down or impairment are impacted by our assessment of the intent and ability to hold securities which have declined in value until recovery. We could incur substantial losses and reduced liquidity if one of the financial institutions we use in our operations, including those institutions that participate in our credit facility and the counterparty to our $150 million variable delivery equity forward, fails. We have exposure to counterparties in many different industries and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, hedge funds and other investment funds and other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty. In addition, with respect to secured transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the obligation. Due to the uncertainty associated with casualty business, current reinsurance recoverables are subject to the credit risk of the reinsurers. We maintain cash balances, including restricted cash held in premium trust accounts, significantly in excess of the U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limits at various depository institutions. We also maintain cash balances in foreign banks and institutions and rely upon funding commitments from several banks and financial institutions that participate in our credit facility. In addition, a financial institution is the counterparty in our variable delivery equity forward sale agreement that provides us with up to $150 million of additional liquidity. As the worldwide fallout from the credit crisis persists, the financial strength of some depository institutions and investment banks has diminished, and this trend may continue. If one or more of these financial institutions were to fail, our ability to access cash balances, draw down on our credit facility or receive funds from our variable delivery equity forward sale might be temporarily or permanently limited, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Our participation in a securities lending program subjects us to potential liquidity and other risks. We participate in a securities lending program whereby securities, including fixed maturity and short-term investments, are loaned by us to third parties. We retain all economic interest in the securities we lend, retain the earnings and cash flows associated with the loaned securities and receive a fee from the borrower for the temporary use of the securities. We require collateral in the form of cash, government securities and letters of credit at a rate of 102% — 105% of the market value of the loaned securities. We invest such collateral in other securities, primarily overnight repurchase agreements, and prior to the first quarter of 2008, in U.S. Treasuries, U.S. government agency securities, mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities and corporate fixed income securities. Returns of loaned securities by the third parties would require us to return the collateral associated with such loaned securities. In addition, in some cases, the maturity of the securities held as invested collateral (i.e., securities that we have purchased with collateral received from the third parties) may exceed the term of the related securities on loan and the market value may fall below the amount received as collateral and invested. If we are required to return significant amounts of collateral on short notice, and we are forced to sell securities to meet the return obligation, we may have difficulty selling such collateral that is invested in securities in a timely manner, be forced to sell securities in a volatile or illiquid market for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize under normal market conditions, or both. In addition, under stressful capital market and economic conditions, such as those conditions we have experienced recently, liquidity broadly deteriorates, which may further restrict our ability to sell securities. 21 Further deterioration in the public debt and equity markets could lead to additional investment losses. The prolonged and severe disruptions in the public debt and equity markets, including, among other things, widening of credit spreads, bankruptcies and government intervention in a number of large financial institutions, have resulted in realized and unrealized losses in our investment portfolio. Depending on market conditions, we could incur substantial additional realized and unrealized losses in future periods, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, equity, business and financial strength and debt ratings. Our valuation of fixed maturity investments, short-term investments and preferred equity securities may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions, which are subject to differing interpretations, and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Fixed maturity investments, which are reported at fair value on the consolidated balance sheet, represented the majority of our total cash and invested assets. We have categorized these securities as well as our short-term investments and preferred equity securities into a three-level hierarchy, based on the priority of the inputs to the respective valuation technique. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3). An asset or liability’s classification within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of significant input to its valuation. SFAS 157 defines the input levels as follows: Level 1 Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2 Quoted prices for similar assets in markets that are active, quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are not active or inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities other than quoted prices in Level 1; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. Unobservable inputs reflect the Company’s own assumptions about the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial instruments whose values are determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as well as instruments for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation. The Company uses quoted values and other data provided by nationally recognized independent pricing sources as inputs into its process for determining fair values of its fixed income portfolio. Independent pricing services and brokers obtain market quotations and actual transaction prices for securities that have quoted prices in active markets. Each source has its own proprietary method for determining the fair value of securities. As such, prices provided by independent pricing services and independent broker quotes can vary widely, even for the same security. The Company obtains multiple prices for its securities where available. To validate the techniques or models used by pricing sources, the Company’s review process includes, but is not limited to: (i) quantitative analysis (e.g., comparing the quarterly return for each managed portfolio to its target benchmark, with significant differences identified and investigated); (ii) initial and ongoing evaluation of methodologies used by outside parties to calculate fair value; and (iii) comparing the fair value estimates to its knowledge of the current market. Based on the above review, the Company will challenge any prices for a security or portfolio which are considered not to be representative of fair value. Please see Note 4 to the Company’s Audited Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion on the percentage and types of securities held in each level. 22 The Company obtains market quotations and actual transaction prices for securities that have quoted prices in active markets. Each source has its own proprietary method for determining the fair value of securities that are not actively traded. In general, these methods involve the use of “matrix pricing” in which the independent pricing source uses observable market inputs including, but not limited to, investment yields, credit risks and spreads, benchmarking of like securities, broker-dealer quotes, reported trades and sector groupings to determine a reasonable fair market value. In addition, pricing vendors use model processes, such as an Option Adjusted Spread model, to develop prepayment and interest rate scenarios. The Option Adjusted Spread model is commonly used to estimate fair value for securities such as mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities. In certain circumstances, when fair market values are unavailable from these independent pricing sources, quotes are obtained directly from broker-dealers who are active in the corresponding markets. The fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on available market information and judgments about financial instruments, including estimates of the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the credit standing of the issuer or counterparty. The use of different methodologies and assumptions may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts. Such quotes are subject to the validation procedures noted above. During periods of market disruption including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities, for example mortgage-backed securities, if trading becomes less frequent or market data becomes less observable. In addition, there may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the current financial environment. In such cases, more securities may fall to Level 3 and thus require more subjectivity and management judgment. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation as well as valuation methods, which are more sophisticated or require greater estimation thereby resulting in values which may differ materially from the value at which the investments may be ultimately sold. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. The determination of the other-than-temporary impairments taken on our investments is highly subjective and could materially impact our financial position or results of operations. The determination of the amount of other-than-temporary impairments taken on our investments varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects impairments in operations as such evaluations are revised. There can be no assurance that our management has accurately assessed the level of impairments taken in our financial statements. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken in the future, which could materially impact our financial position or results of operations. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments. Some of our investments are relatively illiquid and are in asset classes that have been experiencing significant market valuation fluctuations. We hold certain investments that may lack liquidity, such as our alternative investments. If we require significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of normal cash requirements or are required to post or return collateral in connection with our investment portfolio or securities lending activities, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize, or both. 23 The reported value of our relatively illiquid types of investments and, at times, our high quality, generally liquid asset classes, do not necessarily reflect the lowest current market price for the asset. If we were forced to sell certain of our assets in the current market, there can be no assurance that we will be able to sell them for the prices at which we have recorded them, and we may be forced to sell them at significantly lower prices. Our investment liquidity and investment performance may affect our financial assets and ability to conduct business. We derive a significant portion of our income from our invested assets. As a result, our operating results depend in part on the performance of our investment portfolio, which consists primarily of fixed maturity investments. Our income derived from our invested assets (including net realized losses) was $72.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Our operating results are subject to a variety of investment risks, including risks relating to general economic conditions, market volatility, interest rate fluctuations, liquidity risk and credit and default risk. In addition, we are subject to pre-payment or reinvestment risk as well as restrictions on redemptions or sale of certain of our investments. With respect to our liabilities, we strive to structure our investments in a manner that recognizes their cash flow profile and our potential liquidity needs. In that regard, we attempt to correlate the maturity and duration of our investment portfolio to our liability profile. However, if our liquidity needs or liability profile unexpectedly change, we may not be successful in continuing to structure our investment portfolio in that manner. The market value of our fixed maturity investments will be subject to fluctuations depending on changes in various factors, including prevailing interest rates. To the extent that we are unsuccessful in correlating our investment portfolio with our liabilities, we may be forced to liquidate our investments at times and prices that are not optimal, which could have a material adverse effect on the performance of our investment portfolio. At December 2008, the liquidity in the debt capital markets was low compared to historical levels and that trend is continuing in 2009. The decrease in liquidity could result in investment losses if the Company was forced to immediately sell significant portions of its fixed maturity investment portfolio. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Although we take measures to attempt to manage the risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to mitigate interest rate sensitivity effectively. Our mitigation efforts include maintaining a high quality portfolio with a relatively short duration to reduce the effect of interest rate changes on book value. A significant portion of the investment portfolio matures each year, allowing for reinvestment at current market rates. The portfolio is actively managed, and trades are made to balance our exposure to interest rates. However, a significant increase in interest rates would be expected to have a material adverse effect on our book value. Changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements may materially impact our reported financial results. Unanticipated developments in accounting practices may require us to incur considerable additional expenses to comply with such developments, particularly if it is required to prepare information relating to prior periods for comparative purposes or to apply the new requirements retroactively. The impact of changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements cannot be predicted but may affect the calculation of net income, net equity, and other relevant financial statement line items. In particular, recent guidance and ongoing projects put in place by standard setters globally have indicated a possible move away from the current insurance accounting models toward more “fair value” based models which could introduce significant volatility in the earnings of insurance industry participants. Furthermore, rules relating to certain accounting practices in the financial guarantee insurance and reinsurance industry are currently being reviewed by applicable regulatory bodies and any changes required by that review could have a material effect on the reported operating results and financial condition of the industry or particular market participants. 24 Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period and may not be indicative of our long-term prospects. Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period. These fluctuations result from a variety of factors, including the seasonality of the reinsurance and insurance business, the volume and mix of reinsurance and insurance products that we write, loss experience on our reinsurance and insurance liabilities, the performance of our investment portfolio and our ability to assess and integrate our risk management strategy effectively. In particular, we seek to underwrite products and make investments to achieve long-term results. As a result, our short-term results of operations may not be indicative of our long-term prospects. If actual claims exceed our reserve for losses and loss expenses, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our success depends upon our ability to accurately assess the risks associated with the businesses that we insure or reinsure. We establish loss reserves to cover our estimated liability for the payment of all losses and loss expenses incurred with respect to premiums earned on the policies that we write. Loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Rather, loss reserves are estimates of what we expect the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost. These estimates are based upon actuarial and statistical projections and on our assessment of currently available data, as well as estimates of future trends in claims severity and frequency, judicial theories of liability and other factors. Loss reserve estimates are refined continually in an ongoing process as experience develops and claims are reported and settled. Establishing an appropriate level of loss reserves is an inherently uncertain process. Moreover, these uncertainties are greater for companies like us than for those with a longer operating history because we do not yet have an extensive loss history. Because of this uncertainty, it is possible that our reserves at any given time will prove inadequate. To the extent we determine that actual losses and loss expenses exceed our expectations and loss reserves recorded in our financial statements, we will be required to immediately increase our reserve for losses and loss expenses. This could cause a material reduction in our profitability and capital. As a property, agriculture and catastrophe insurer and reinsurer, we are particularly vulnerable to losses from catastrophes. Our property, agriculture and catastrophe insurance and reinsurance lines expose us to claims arising out of catastrophes. Catastrophes can be caused by various unpredictable events, including earthquakes, hurricanes, hailstorms, droughts, severe weather, floods, fires, tornadoes, volcano eruptions, explosions and other natural or man-made disasters. The global geographic distribution of our business subjects us to catastrophe exposure for natural events occurring in a number of areas throughout the world, including, but not limited to, windstorms in the United Kingdom and continental Europe, hurricanes in Florida, the Gulf Coast and the Atlantic coast regions of the United States, typhoons and earthquakes in Japan, earthquakes in California and the New Madrid region of the United States and drought and flooding in the Midwestern United States. In addition, changing climate conditions, primarily rising global temperatures, may be increasing, or may in the future increase the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes, including weather events, and may create new types of catastrophe losses. We expect that increases in the values and concentrations of insured property will increase the severity of such occurrences in the future. In the event that we experience catastrophe losses, there is a possibility that our premiums will be inadequate to cover these risks. In addition, because accounting regulations do not permit insurers and reinsurers to reserve for such catastrophic events until they occur, claims from catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to write new business also could be adversely impacted. Although we attempt to manage our exposure to such events through the use of underwriting controls and the purchase of third-party reinsurance, catastrophic events are inherently unpredictable and the actual nature of such events when they occur could be more frequent or severe than contemplated in our pricing and risk management expectations. As a result, the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. See “Item 1. Business — Enterprise Risk Management — Underwriting Risk Management.” As a property and casualty insurer and reinsurer, we could face losses from war, terrorism and political unrest. We may have substantial exposure to losses resulting from acts of war, acts of terrorism and political instability. These risks are inherently unpredictable, although recent events may lead to increased frequency and severity. It is difficult to predict their occurrence with statistical certainty or to estimate the amount of loss an occurrence will generate. Accordingly, it is possible that our loss reserves will be inadequate to cover these risks. We closely monitor the amount and types of coverage we provide for terrorism risk under insurance policies and reinsurance treaties. We often seek to exclude terrorism when we cannot reasonably evaluate the risk of loss or charge an appropriate premium for such risk. Even in cases where we have deliberately sought to exclude coverage, we may not be able to eliminate completely our exposure to terrorist acts, and thus it is possible that these acts will have a material adverse effect on us. 25 The risks associated with property and casualty reinsurance underwriting could adversely affect us. Because we participate in property and casualty reinsurance markets, the success of our underwriting efforts depends, in part, upon the policies, procedures and expertise of the ceding companies making the original underwriting decisions. We face the risk that these ceding companies may fail to accurately assess the risks that they assume initially, which, in turn, may lead us to inaccurately assess the risks we assume. If we fail to establish and receive appropriate premium rates, we could face significant losses on these contracts. If actual renewals of our existing contracts do not meet expectations, our gross premiums written in future years and our future results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our contracts are generally for a one-year term. In our financial forecasting process, we make assumptions about the renewal of our prior year’s contracts. If actual renewals do not meet expectations, our gross premiums written in future years and our future results of operations could be materially adversely affected. This risk is especially prevalent in the first quarter of each year when a large number of reinsurance contracts are subject to renewal. The development of our U.S.-based insurance operations is subject to increased risk from changing market conditions. Excess and surplus lines insurance are a substantial portion of the business written by our U.S.-based insurance operations. Excess and surplus lines insurance covers risks that are typically more complex and unusual than standard risks and require a high degree of specialized underwriting. As a result, excess and surplus lines risks do not often fit the underwriting criteria of standard insurance carriers. Our excess and surplus lines insurance business fills the insurance needs of businesses with unique characteristics and is generally considered higher risk than those in the standard market. If our underwriting staff inadequately judges and prices the risks associated with the business underwritten in the excess and surplus lines market, our financial results could be adversely impacted. Further, the excess and surplus lines market is significantly affected by the conditions of the property and casualty insurance market in general. This cyclicality can be more pronounced in the excess and surplus market than in the standard insurance market. During times of hard market conditions (when market conditions are more favorable to insurers), as rates increase and coverage terms become more restrictive, business tends to move from the admitted market to the excess and surplus lines market and growth in the excess and surplus market can be significantly more rapid than growth in the standard insurance market. When soft market conditions are prevalent (when market conditions are less favorable to insurers), standard insurance carriers tend to loosen underwriting standards and expand market share by moving into business lines traditionally characterized as excess and surplus lines, exacerbating the effect of rate decreases. If we fail to manage the cyclical nature and volatility of the revenues and profit we generate in the excess and surplus lines market, our financial results could be adversely impacted. The failure of any of the loss limitation methods we employ could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or on our results of operations. We seek to limit our loss exposure by writing many of our insurance and reinsurance contracts on an excess of loss basis, adhering to maximum limitations on policies written in defined geographical zones, limiting program size for each client, establishing per risk and per occurrence limitations for each event and following prudent underwriting guidelines for each program written. In the case of proportional treaties, we seek per occurrence limitations or loss ratio caps to limit the impact of losses from any one event. Most of our direct liability insurance policies include maximum aggregate limitations. We also seek to limit our loss exposure through geographic diversification. Geographic zone limitations involve significant underwriting judgments, including the determination of the area of the zones and whether a policy falls within particular zone limits. Disputes relating to coverage and choice of legal forum may also arise. As a result, various provisions of our policies, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum, may not be enforceable in the manner we intend and some or all of our other loss limitation methods may prove to be ineffective. Underwriting is a matter of judgment, involving important assumptions about matters that are inherently unpredictable and beyond our control, and for which historical experience and probability analysis may not provide sufficient guidance. One or more future catastrophic or other events could result in claims that substantially exceed our expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our results of operations, possibly to the extent of eliminating our shareholders’ equity. We may be unable to purchase reinsurance and our net income could be reduced or we could incur a net loss in the event of an unusual loss experience. We purchase reinsurance if it is deemed prudent from a risk mitigation perspective or if it is expected to have a favorable cost/benefit relationship relative to our retained risk portfolio. Changes in the availability and cost of reinsurance, which are subject to market conditions that are outside of our control, may reduce to some extent our ability to use reinsurance to balance exposures across our reinsurance or insurance operations. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain our desired amounts of reinsurance. In addition, even if we are able to obtain such reinsurance, we may not be able to negotiate terms that we deem appropriate or acceptable or obtain such reinsurance from entities with satisfactory creditworthiness. 26 We are also subject to credit risk with respect to our reinsurers because the transfer of risk to a reinsurer does not relieve us of our liability to our clients. In addition, reinsurers may be unwilling to pay us even though they are able to do so. The failure of one or more of the our reinsurers to honor their obligations to us in a timely fashion would impact our cash flow and reduce our net income and, depending upon the amount of reinsurance we have purchased, could cause us to incur a significant loss. Since we are dependent on key executives, the loss of any of these executives or our inability to retain other key personnel could adversely affect our business. Our success substantially depends upon our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and upon the ability of our senior management and other key employees to implement our business strategy. We believe there are only a limited number of available qualified executives in the business lines in which we compete. We rely substantially upon the services of Kenneth J. LeStrange, our Chief Executive Officer, President and Chairman of the Board of Directors, Michael J. McGuire, our Chief Financial Officer, Michael E. Angelina, our Chief Actuary and Chief Risk Officer, David S. Cash, our Chief Underwriting Officer, Michael P. Fujii, the President and Chief Executive Officer of our worldwide insurance operations and William M. Jewett, the President and Chief Executive Officer of our worldwide reinsurance operations. We believe we have been successful in attracting and retaining key personnel since our inception. The loss of any of their services or the services of other members of our management team or the inability to attract and retain other talented personnel could impede the further implementation of our business strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not currently maintain key man life insurance policies with respect to any of our employees. Our business could be adversely affected by Bermuda employment restrictions. We will need to continue to hire employees to work in Bermuda. Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians (other than spouses of Bermudians) may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without an appropriate governmental work permit. Work permits may be granted or extended by the Bermuda government upon showing that, after proper public advertisement in most cases, no Bermudian (or spouse of a Bermudian) is available who meets the minimum standard requirements for the advertised position. Current Bermuda law limits the duration of work permits to six years, with certain exemptions for key employees. All of our 49 Bermuda-based professional employees who require work permits, including Messrs. LeStrange, McGuire, Angelina, Fuji and Jewett have been granted permits by the Bermuda government. The terms of such permits usually range from three to five years at the time of grant depending on the individual. It is possible that we could lose the services of one or more of our key employees if we are unable to obtain or renew their work permits, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. A decline in our financial strength ratings could affect our standing among brokers and customers and cause our premiums and earnings to decrease. Ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance and reinsurance companies. We currently maintain an A.M. Best financial strength rating of “A” (Excellent) with a stable outlook and a S&P financial strength rating of “A” (Strong) with a stable outlook, other than ARMtech. We currently maintain an A.M. Best financial strength rating of “A-” (excellent) with a stable outlook on ARMtech. Because all of our ratings are subject to continual review, the retention of these ratings cannot be assured. If our ratings are reduced from their current level by A.M. Best or S&P, our competitive position in the insurance and reinsurance industry would suffer. Such a downgrade may have a material negative impact on our ability to expand our insurance and reinsurance portfolio and renew our existing insurance and reinsurance policies and agreements, require us to establish trusts or post letters of credit for ceding company clients, and could trigger provisions allowing some ceding company clients to terminate their reinsurance contracts with us on terms disadvantageous to us. In addition, a downgrade of our A.M. Best rating below “B++” (two levels below our current rating) would constitute an event of default under our bank credit facility. Each of the effects of a downgrade of our financial strength rating described above could make it more expensive or otherwise difficult for us to compete in certain business segments in which we would otherwise desire to operate. If this were to occur, we could suffer a material and adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations, and the market price for our securities, including any ordinary shares, could be materially and adversely affected. In light of the difficulties experienced recently by many financial institutions, including our competitors in the insurance industry, we believe it is possible that rating agencies may heighten the level of scrutiny they apply when analyzing companies in our industry, may increase the frequency and scope of their reviews, may request additional information from the companies that they rate (including additional information regarding the valuation of investment securities held), and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in their models for maintenance of certain rating levels. 27 We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which could adversely affect our business. As with other companies in the financial services industry, our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without any notice. Our holding company structure and certain regulatory and other constraints affect our ability to pay dividends and make other payments. Endurance Holdings is a holding company and, as such, has no substantial operations of its own. Dividends and other permitted distributions from our operating subsidiaries are expected to be Endurance Holdings’ primary source of funds to meet ongoing cash requirements, including debt service payments and other expenses, and to pay dividends, if any, to shareholders. Bermuda law and regulations, including, but not limited to, Bermuda insurance regulations, restrict the declaration and payment of dividends and the making of distributions by Endurance Bermuda unless certain regulatory requirements are met. The inability of Endurance Bermuda to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable Endurance Holdings to meet its cash requirements at the holding company level could have a material adverse effect on its operations. In addition, Endurance Holdings’ U.S. and U.K. operating subsidiaries are subject to significant regulatory restrictions limiting their ability to declare and pay dividends. We therefore do not expect to receive material dividends from these operating subsidiaries for the foreseeable future. Endurance Holdings is subject to Bermuda regulatory constraints that will affect its ability to pay dividends on its ordinary shares, class A shares and 7.75% Non-Cumulative Preferred Shares, Series A (the “Series A Preferred Shares”), and make other payments. Under the Bermuda Companies Act 1981, as amended (the “Companies Act”), Endurance Holdings may declare or pay a dividend or make a distribution out of retained earnings or contributed surplus only if it has reasonable grounds for believing that it is, or would after the payment be, able to pay its liabilities as they become due and if the realizable value of its assets would thereby not be less than the aggregate of its liabilities and issued share capital and share premium accounts. In addition, the terms of our credit facility prohibit Endurance Holdings from declaring or paying any dividends if a default or event of default has occurred and is continuing at the time of such declaration or payment or would result from such declaration or payment. In addition, the terms of the Series A Preferred Shares prohibit the declaration or payment of dividends on our ordinary shares unless dividends on the Series A Preferred Shares have been declared and paid. Preference shares, including the Series A Preferred Shares, may also not be redeemed if as a result of the redemption, our issued share capital would be reduced below the minimum capital specified in the memorandum of association of Endurance Holdings. For a discussion of the legal limitations on our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends to Endurance Holdings and of Endurance Holdings to pay dividends to its shareholders, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” The cost of reinsurance security arrangements may materially impact our margins. As a Bermuda reinsurer, Endurance Bermuda is required to post collateral security with respect to reinsurance liabilities it assumes from ceding insurers domiciled in the U.S. The posting of collateral security is generally required in order for U.S. ceding companies to obtain credit on their U.S. statutory financial statements with respect to reinsurance liabilities ceded to unlicensed or unaccredited reinsurers, such as Endurance Bermuda. Under applicable statutory provisions, the security arrangements may be in the form of letters of credit, reinsurance trusts maintained by third-party trustees or funds-withheld arrangements whereby the trusteed assets are held by the ceding company. Endurance Bermuda has the ability to issue up to $1.175 billion in letters of credit under our letter of credit and revolving credit facility that expires on May 8, 2012. If this facility is not sufficient or if the Company is unable to renew this facility or is unable to arrange for other types of security on commercially acceptable terms, the ability of Endurance Bermuda to provide reinsurance to U.S.-based clients may be severely limited. Security arrangements may subject our assets to security interests and/or require that a portion of our assets be pledged to, or otherwise held by, third parties. Although the investment income derived from our assets while held in trust typically accrues to our benefit, the investment of these assets is governed by the investment regulations of the state of domicile of the ceding insurer, which may be more restrictive than the investment regulations applicable to us under Bermuda law. The restrictions may result in lower investment yields on these assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. 28 Profitability may be adversely impacted by inflation. The effects of inflation could cause the cost of claims from catastrophes or other events to rise in the future. Our reserve for losses and loss expenses includes assumptions about future payments for settlement of claims and claims handling expenses, such as medical treatments and litigation costs. To the extent inflation causes these costs to increase above reserves established for these claims, we will be required to increase our loss reserves with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is identified. Adverse changes to the economy in the countries in which we operate could lower the demand for our insurance and reinsurance products and could have a materially adverse effect on the profitability of our operations. Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, indirectly, the amount and profitability of our business. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for insurance products could be adversely affected. Adverse changes in the economy could potentially lead our customers to have less need for insurance coverage, to cancel existing insurance policies, modify coverage or to not renew with us, and our premium revenue could be adversely affected. Challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our customers to pay premiums as they come due. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruptions in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the United States and other countries, which may have an adverse effect on us, in part because we are dependent upon the above discussed factors. 29 We may be adversely affected by foreign currency fluctuations. We have made a significant investment in the capitalization of Endurance U.K., which is denominated in British Sterling. In addition, we enter into reinsurance and insurance contracts where we are obligated to pay losses in currencies other than U.S. dollars. For the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 11% of our gross premiums, prior to deposit accounting adjustments, were written in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. A portion of our cash and cash equivalents, investments and loss reserves are also denominated in non-U.S. currencies. The majority of our operating foreign currency assets and liabilities are denominated in Euros, British Sterling, Canadian Dollars, Japanese Yen and Australian Dollars. We may, from time to time, experience losses from fluctuations in the values of these and other non-U.S. currencies, which could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. We periodically buy and sell currencies or investment securities denominated in non-U.S. dollars in an attempt to match our non-U.S. dollar assets to our related non-U.S. dollar liabilities. We have no currency hedges in place; however, as part of our matching strategy, we consider the use of hedges when we become aware of probable significant losses that will be paid in non-U.S. currencies. However, it is possible that we will not successfully match our exposures or structure the hedges so as to effectively manage these risks. Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than twelve months. Recently, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business successfully, to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses, and to maintain our current rating agency ratings. We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses and without sufficient liquidity we will be forced to curtail our operations, and our business will suffer. The principal sources of our liquidity are our invested assets. Sources of liquidity in normal markets also include a variety of short- and long-term instruments, including repurchase agreements, commercial paper, medium- and long-term debt, junior subordinated debt securities, capital securities and shareholders’ equity. In the event current resources do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large investment losses or if the level of our business activity decreases due to a market downturn. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. Our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business, most significantly our insurance operations. Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities; satisfy statutory capital requirements; generate fee income and market-related revenue to meet liquidity needs; and access the capital necessary to grow our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter tenor securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our shareholders could result, and in any case such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our already outstanding securities. Recently our credit spreads have widened considerably. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets and an inability to obtain adequate capital. 30 Our failure to comply with restrictive covenants contained in the indentures governing our senior notes or our current or future credit facility could trigger prepayment obligations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The indentures governing our senior notes contain covenants that impose restrictions on us and certain of our subsidiaries with respect to, among other things, the incurrence of liens and the disposition of capital stock of these subsidiaries. In addition, our credit facility requires us and/or certain of our subsidiaries to comply with certain covenants, including the maintenance of a minimum consolidated net tangible worth and restrictions on the payment of dividends. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default under the indentures or our credit facility, which, if not cured or waived, could result in us being required to repay the notes or any amounts outstanding under the credit facility prior to maturity. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Since we depend on a few brokers for a large portion of our revenues, loss of business provided by any one of them could adversely affect us. We market our insurance and reinsurance worldwide primarily through insurance and reinsurance brokers. In the year ended December 31, 2008, our top three brokers represented approximately 39% of our gross premiums written before deposit accounting adjustments. See “Item 1. Business — Distribution.” Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided by one or more of these brokers, particularly as a result of the merger of AON Corporation and Benfield Group Limited, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our reliance on brokers subjects us to their credit risk. In accordance with industry practice, we frequently pay amounts owed on claims under our insurance or reinsurance contracts to brokers, and these brokers, in turn, pay these amounts to the clients that have purchased insurance or reinsurance from us. If a broker fails to make such a payment, in a significant majority of business that we write, it is highly likely that we will be liable to the client for the deficiency because of local laws or contractual obligations. Likewise, when the client pays premiums for these policies to brokers for payment over to us, these premiums are considered to have been paid and, in most cases, the client will no longer be liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we have actually received the premiums. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with brokers around the world with respect to most of our insurance and reinsurance business. To date we have not experienced any losses related to such credit risks. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance or reinsurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. Recent examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include: • larger settlements and jury awards for professionals and corporate directors and officers covered by professional liability and directors’ and officers’ liability insurance; • a growing trend of plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers in purported class action litigations relating to claims-handling, insurance sales practices and other practices related to the conduct of our business; • increased litigation and regulatory involvement in the claims settlement process from claims arising from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma; and • uncertainties associated with liability coverages related to sub prime mortgage exposures. The effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could harm our business. 31 We operate in a highly competitive environment which could adversely impact our operating margins. The insurance and reinsurance industries are highly competitive. We compete with major U.S. and non-U.S. insurers and reinsurers, including other Bermuda-based insurers and reinsurers. For information regarding competition in each of our business segments, see “Item 1. Business — Business Segments.” Many of our competitors have greater financial, marketing and management resources. A number of newly-organized, Bermuda- based insurance and reinsurance entities compete in the same market segments in which we operate. In addition, we may not be aware of other companies that may be planning to enter the segments of the insurance and reinsurance market in which we operate or of existing companies that may be planning to raise additional capital. Increasing competition could result in fewer submissions, lower premium rates and less favorable policy terms and conditions, which could have a material adverse impact on our growth and profitability. Further, insurance/risk-linked securities and derivative and other non-traditional risk transfer mechanisms and vehicles are being developed and offered by other parties, including non-insurance company entities, which could impact the demand for traditional insurance or reinsurance. A number of new, proposed or potential industry or legislative developments could further increase competition in our industry. New competition from these developments could cause the demand for insurance or reinsurance to fall or the expense of customer acquisition and retention to increase, either of which could have a material adverse affect on our growth and profitability. The historical cyclicality of the property and casualty reinsurance industry may cause fluctuations in our results. Historically, property and casualty insurers and reinsurers have experienced significant fluctuations in operating results due to competition, frequency of occurrence or severity of catastrophic events, levels of capacity, general economic conditions and other factors. Demand for insurance and reinsurance is influenced significantly by prevailing general economic conditions and, in the case of reinsurance, the underwriting results of primary property and casualty insurers. The supply of insurance and reinsurance is related to prevailing prices, the levels of insured losses and the levels of industry surplus which, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments being earned in the insurance and reinsurance industry. As a result, the insurance and reinsurance business historically has been a cyclical industry characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted favorable premium levels. The recent increase in the supply of insurance and reinsurance as a result of capital provided by new entrants and by the commitment of additional capital by existing reinsurers, has caused insurance and reinsurance prices in many of the markets in which we participate to decrease since 2007. Recent or future legislation may decrease the demand for our property catastrophe reinsurance products and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In January 2007, the State of Florida enacted legislation known as Bill No. CS/HB-1A (the “Bill”), which increased the access of primary Florida insurers to the FHCF. Through the FHCF, Florida currently provides below market rate reinsurance of up to $28.0 billion per season, with Florida able to further increase the limits up to an additional $4.0 billion per season. In addition, the legislation allows Florida insurers to choose a lower retention level for FHCF reinsurance coverage, at specified rates for specified layers of coverage. Further, the legislation expanded the ability of Citizens, a state-sponsored entity, to compete with private insurance and reinsurance companies, such as ours, by, for example, authorizing Citizens to write multi-peril policies in high-risk account coverage areas. Moreover, the legislation mandated the reduction of Citizens’ in force rates by an average of 23%, repealed a 56% rate increase that was to be effective March 1, 2007, and froze any additional rate increases for the remainder of 2007. Also, Citizens’ premium rates are no longer required to be non-competitive with the voluntary, private market and are no longer required to be based on the highest rate offered by the top 20 insurers in a given area. In sum, the legislation reduced the role of the private markets in providing support for Florida-based risks, a market in which we have established substantial market share. Efforts in 2008 to reduce the scale of the 2008 state involvement in the private markets were not successful. We believe the Bill caused a substantial decline in the private reinsurance and insurance markets in and relating to Florida, and contributed to the decline in our property catastrophe gross premiums written in 2008 and 2007 as compared to 2006. Proposals to reduce the expansion of the FHCF introduced in 2008 never materialized and there can be no assurance that additional legislation reducing the size of the private markets relating to Florida will not be enacted. It is also possible that other states, particularly those with Atlantic or Gulf Coast exposures, may enact new or expanded legislation based on the Florida precedent, or may otherwise enact legislation, which would further diminish aggregate private market demand for our products. Alternatively, legislation adversely impacting the private markets could be enacted on a regional or at the federal level. Moreover, we believe that numerous modeled potential catastrophes could exceed the actual or politically acceptable bonded capacity of the FHCF, which could lead either to a severe dislocation or the necessity of Federal intervention in the Florida market, either of which would adversely impact the private insurance and reinsurance industry. 32 Acquisitions or strategic investments that we made or may make could turn out to be unsuccessful. As part of our strategy, we have pursued and may continue to pursue growth through acquisitions and/or strategic investments in new businesses. The negotiation of potential acquisitions or strategic investments as well as the integration of an acquired business or new personnel could result in a substantial diversion of management resources. Successful integration will depend on, among other things, our ability to effectively integrate acquired businesses or new personnel into our existing risk management techniques, our ability to effectively manage any regulatory issues created by our entry into new markets and geographic locations, our ability to retain key personnel and other operational and economic factors. There can be no assurance that the integration of acquired business or new personnel will be successful or that the business acquired will prove to be profitable or sustainable. The failure to integrate successfully or to manage the challenges presented by the integration process may adversely impact our financial results. Acquisitions could involve numerous additional risks such as potential losses from unanticipated litigation or levels of claims and inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs. Our ability to manage our growth through acquisitions or strategic investments will depend, in part, on our success in addressing these risks. Any failure by us to effectively implement our acquisitions or strategic investment strategies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The regulatory system under which we operate, and potential changes thereto, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations or accreditations, or may be able to do so only at great cost. In addition, we may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, the wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance or reinsurance companies or holding companies. Failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate exemptions under any applicable laws could result in restrictions on our ability to do business in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate and fines and other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The laws and regulations under which we operate, such as the regulations governing our insurance rates and forms, the U.S. multiple peril crop insurance program and the purchase of reinsurance by property insurers in Florida, could be revised in a manner materially adverse to the manner in which we conduct our business. In addition, the insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework continues to be subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions, including the U.S. and various states within the U.S. If our Bermuda insurance or reinsurance operations become subject to the insurance laws of any state in the U.S., we could face inquiries or challenges to the future operations of these companies. Although surplus lines business is generally less regulated than the admitted market, the regulation of surplus lines insurance may undergo changes in the future. Federal and/or state measures may be introduced and promulgated that could result in increased oversight and regulation of surplus lines insurance. Additionally, some recent and pending cases in Florida and California courts have raised potentially significant questions regarding surplus lines insurance in those states such as whether surplus lines insurers will be subject to policy form content, filing and approval requirements or additional taxes. These cases also could foreshadow more extensive oversight of surplus lines insurance by other jurisdictions. Endurance American and American Merchants write insurance on an admitted basis within the U.S. and are subject to extensive regulation under state statutes which confer regulatory, supervisory and administrative powers on state insurance commissioners. Such regulation generally is designed to protect policyholders rather than investors or shareholders of the insurer. Our current or future business strategy could cause one or more of our currently unregulated non-insurance subsidiaries to become subject to some form of regulation. Any failure to comply with applicable laws could result in the imposition of significant restrictions on our ability to do business, and could also result in fines and other sanctions, any or all of which could adversely affect our financial results and operations. We could be required to allocate considerable time and resources to comply with any new or additional regulatory requirements, and any such requirements may impact the operations of our insurance non-insurance subsidiaries and ultimately could impact our financial condition as well. In addition, we could be adversely affected if a regulatory authority believed we had failed to comply with applicable law or regulation. Heightened scrutiny of issues and practices in the insurance industry may adversely affect our business. We believe that certain government authorities, including state officials in Florida, are continuing to scrutinize and investigate a number of issues and practices within the insurance industry. While we have not been named in any actions or proceedings, it is possible such scrutiny could expand to include us in the future, and it is also possible that these investigations or related regulatory developments will mandate or otherwise give rise to changes in industry practices in a fashion that increases our costs or requires us to alter how we conduct our business. 33 We cannot predict the ultimate effect that these investigations, and any changes in industry practice, including future legislation or regulations that may become applicable to us, will have on the insurance industry, the regulatory framework, or our business. As noted above, because we frequently assume the credit risk of the counterparties with whom we do business throughout our insurance and reinsurance operations, our results of operations could be adversely affected if the credit quality of these counterparties is severely impacted by the current investigations in the insurance industry or by changes to industry practices. Operational risks, including systems or human failures, are inherent in business, including ours. We are subject to operational risks including fraud, employee errors, failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization, failure to comply with regulatory requirements or obligations under our agreements, information technology failures, or external events. Losses from these risks may occur from time to time and may be significant. As our business and operations grow more complex, we are exposed to more risk in these areas. Our modeling, underwriting and information technology systems are critical to our success. Moreover, our proprietary technology and application systems have been an important part of our underwriting strategy and our ability to compete successfully. We have also licensed certain systems and data from third parties. We cannot be certain that we will have access to these, or comparable, service providers, or that our information technology or application systems will continue to operate as intended. While we have implemented disaster recovery and other business contingency plans, a defect or failure in our internal controls or information technology systems could result in reduced or delayed revenue growth, higher than expected losses, management distraction, or harm to our reputation. We believe appropriate controls and mitigation procedures are in place to prevent significant risk of defect in our internal controls and information technology systems, but internal controls provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance as to the absence of errors or irregularities and any ineffectiveness of such controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business. There are provisions in our charter documents that may reduce or increase the voting rights of our ordinary shares. The bye-laws of Endurance Holdings generally provide that any shareholder owning, directly, indirectly or, in the case of any U.S. person, by attribution, outstanding ordinary shares possessing more than 9.5% of the aggregate voting power of our ordinary shares will have their voting rights reduced so that they may not exercise more than 9.5% of the voting rights conferred by our ordinary shares. Under these provisions, certain shareholders may have their voting rights limited to less than one vote per share, while other shareholders may have voting rights in excess of one vote per share. Moreover, these provisions could have the effect of reducing the votes of certain shareholders who would not otherwise be subject to the 9.5% limitation by virtue of their direct share ownership. The bye-laws of Endurance Holdings provide that shareholders will be notified of their voting interests prior to any vote to be taken by the shareholders. As a result of any reallocation of votes, your voting rights might increase above 5% of the aggregate voting power of the outstanding ordinary shares, thereby possibly resulting in your becoming a reporting person subject to Schedule 13D or 13G filing requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). In addition, the reallocation of your votes could result in your becoming subject to filing requirements under Section 16 of the Exchange Act. We also have the authority to request information from any shareholder for the purpose of determining whether a shareholder’s voting rights are to be reallocated pursuant to the bye-laws. If a shareholder fails to respond to a request for information from us or submits incomplete or inaccurate information (after a reasonable cure period) in response to a request, we may, in our reasonable discretion, reduce or eliminate the shareholder’s voting rights. Provisions of Endurance Holdings’ bye-laws may restrict the ability to transfer shares of Endurance Holdings. Endurance Holdings’ Board of Directors may decline to register a transfer of any ordinary shares if the relevant instrument of transfer (if any) is in favor of five persons or more jointly or is not properly executed, the transferred shares are not fully paid shares or if the transferor fails to comply with all applicable laws and regulations governing the transfer. 34 A shareholder may be required to sell its shares of Endurance. The bye-laws of Endurance Holdings provide that we have the option, but not the obligation, to require a shareholder to sell its ordinary shares for their fair market value to us, to other shareholders or to third parties if we determine, based on the written advice of legal counsel, that failure to exercise our option would result in non-de minimis adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequences to us or certain U.S. persons as to which the shares held by such shareholder constitute controlled shares. In the latter case, our right to require a shareholder to sell its ordinary shares to us will be limited to the purchase of a number of ordinary shares that will permit avoidance of those adverse tax consequences. A shareholder may be required to indemnify us for any tax liability that results from the acts of that shareholder. The bye-laws of Endurance Holdings provide certain protections against adverse tax consequences to us resulting from laws that apply to the shareholders of Endurance Holdings. If a shareholder’s death or non-payment of any tax or duty payable by the shareholder, or any other act or thing involving the shareholder, causes any adverse tax consequences to us, (i) the shareholder (or his executor or administrator) is required to indemnify us against any tax liability that we incur as a result, (ii) we will have a lien on any dividends or any other distributions payable to the shareholder by us to the extent of the tax liability and (iii) if any amounts not covered by our lien on dividends and distributions are owed to us by the shareholder as a result of our tax liability, we have the right to refuse to register any transfer of the shareholder’s shares. There are regulatory limitations on the ownership and transfer of our ordinary shares. The Financial Services and Markets Act (“FSMA”) regulates the acquisition of control of any U.K. insurance company authorized under FSMA. Any company or individual that (together with its or his associates) directly or indirectly acquires 10% or more of the shares of a U.K. authorized insurance company or its parent company, or is entitled to exercise or control the exercise of 10% or more of the voting power in such authorized insurance company or its parent company, would be considered to have acquired control for the purposes of FSMA, as would a person who had significant influence over the management of such authorized insurance company or its parent company by virtue of his shareholding or voting power in either. A purchaser of more than 10% of our ordinary shares would therefore be considered to have acquired control of Endurance U.K. Under the FSMA, any person proposing to acquire control over a U.K. authorized insurance company must notify the FSA of his intention to do so and obtain the FSA’s prior approval. The FSA would then have three months to consider that person’s application to acquire control. In considering whether to approve such application, the FSA must be satisfied both that the acquirer is a fit and proper person to have such control and that the interests of consumers would not be threatened by such acquisition of control. Failure to make the relevant prior application would constitute a criminal offense. State laws in the United States also require prior notices or regulatory agency approval of changes in control of an insurer or its holding company. The insurance laws of the domiciliary state provide that no corporation or other person except an authorized insurer may acquire control of a domestic insurance or reinsurance company unless it has given notice to such company and obtained prior written approval of the domiciliary state insurance commissioner. Any purchaser of 10% or more of our ordinary shares could become subject to such regulations and could be required to file certain notices and reports with the insurance commissioners of the domiciliary states of our operating companies. U.S. persons who own our ordinary shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests than U.S. persons who are shareholders of a U.S. corporation. The Companies Act, which applies to Endurance Holdings and Endurance Bermuda, differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. These differences include the manner in which directors must disclose transactions in which they have an interest, the rights of shareholders to bring class action and derivative lawsuits and the scope of indemnification available to directors and officers. Anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws could impede an attempt to replace or remove our directors, which could diminish the value of our ordinary shares. Endurance Holdings’ bye-laws contain provisions that may entrench directors and make it more difficult for shareholders to replace directors even if the shareholders consider it beneficial to do so. In addition, these provisions could delay or prevent a change of control that a shareholder might consider favorable. For example, these provisions may prevent a shareholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of our ordinary shares offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. Even in the absence of an attempt to effect a change in management or a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our ordinary shares if they are viewed as discouraging changes in management and takeover attempts in the future. 35 It may be difficult to enforce service of process and enforcement of judgments against us and our officers and directors. Endurance Holdings is a Bermuda company and certain of its officers and directors are residents of jurisdictions outside the United States. A substantial portion of its assets and its officers and directors, at any one time, are or may be located in jurisdictions outside the United States. It may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States on our directors and officers who reside outside the United States or to enforce against us or our directors and officers judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. We have been advised by Appleby, our Bermuda counsel, that there is no treaty in force between the United States and Bermuda providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. As a result, whether a United States judgment would be enforceable in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers depends on whether the U.S. court that entered the judgment is recognized by the Bermuda court as having jurisdiction over us or our directors and officers, as determined by reference to Bermuda conflict of law rules. In addition to and irrespective of jurisdictional issues, the Bermuda courts will not enforce a United States federal securities law that is either penal or contrary to public policy. It is the advice of Appleby that an action brought pursuant to a public or penal law, the purpose of which is the enforcement of a sanction, power or right at the instance of the state in its sovereign capacity, will not be entertained by a Bermuda court. Certain remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including certain remedies under U.S. federal securities laws, would not be available under Bermuda law or enforceable in a Bermuda court, as they would be contrary to Bermuda public policy. Further, no claim may be brought in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers in the first instance for violation of U.S. federal securities laws because these laws have no extraterritorial jurisdiction under Bermuda law and do not have force of law in Bermuda. A Bermuda court may, however, impose civil liability on us or our directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda law. Risks Related to Taxation We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after March 28, 2016, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, of Bermuda, has given Endurance Holdings and Endurance Bermuda an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would “impose tax computed on profits or income or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition” any such tax will not be applicable to Endurance Holdings, Endurance Bermuda or any of their respective operations, shares, debentures or other obligations until March 28, 2016. Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance’s assurance, however, it is possible that after March 28, 2016 we may be subject to Bermuda taxes. We and our subsidiaries may be subject to U.S. tax which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Endurance Holdings and Endurance Bermuda are Bermuda companies and Endurance U.K. is an English company. Endurance Holdings, Endurance Bermuda and Endurance U.K. each intend to operate in such a manner that none of these companies will be deemed to be engaged in the conduct of a trade or business within the United States. Nevertheless, because definitive identification of activities which constitute being engaged in a trade or business in the United States is not provided by the Code, regulations or court decisions, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) might successfully contend that any of Endurance Holdings, Endurance Bermuda and/or Endurance U.K. are/is engaged in a trade or business in the United States. If Endurance Holdings, Endurance Bermuda and/or Endurance U.K. were engaged in a trade or business in the United States, and if Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda were to qualify for benefits under the applicable income tax treaty with the United States, but such trade or business were attributable to a “permanent establishment” in the United States (or in the case of Endurance Bermuda, with respect to investment income, arguably even if such income were not attributable to a “permanent establishment”), Endurance Holdings, Endurance U.K. and/or Endurance Bermuda would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates on the income that is effectively connected with the U.S. trade or business, plus an additional 30% “branch profits” tax in certain circumstances, in which case our financial condition and results of operations and your investment could be materially adversely affected. 36 Holders of Endurance Holdings’ ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares who own 10% or more of our voting power may be subject to taxation under the “controlled foreign corporation” (“CFC”) rules. Certain “10% U.S. Shareholders” of a foreign corporation that is considered a “controlled foreign corporation” (a “CFC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes must include in gross income such 10% U.S. shareholder’s pro rata share of the CFC’s “subpart F income,” even if the subpart F income is not distributed. See “Material Tax Considerations — Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations — United States Taxation of Holders of Ordinary Shares and Series A Preferred Shares — Shareholders Who Are U.S. Persons — Classification of Endurance Holdings, Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda as a Controlled Foreign Corporation.” Due to the dispersion of Endurance Holdings’ share ownership among holders, its bye-law provisions that impose limitations on the concentration of voting power of its shares entitled to vote and authorize Endurance Holdings to purchase such shares under certain circumstances, and other factors, no U.S. Person that owns shares in Endurance Holdings directly or indirectly through foreign entities should be subject to treatment as a 10% U.S. Shareholder of a CFC. It is possible, however, that the IRS could challenge the effectiveness of these provisions and that a court could sustain such a challenge. Accordingly, investors should consult their tax advisors regarding the application of the CFC rules to an investment in Endurance Holdings. U.S. Persons who hold ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares may be subject to U.S. income taxation on their pro rata share of our “related party insurance income” (“RPII”). The CFC rules apply to certain insurance and reinsurance companies that earn RPII. If the RPII rules were to apply to Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda, a U.S. Person who owns ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares of Endurance Holdings directly or indirectly through foreign entities on the last day of the taxable year would be required to include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes the shareholder’s pro rata share of Endurance U.K.’s or Endurance Bermuda’s RPII for the entire taxable year, determined as if such RPII were distributed proportionately to such U.S. shareholders at that date regardless of whether such income is distributed. In addition, any RPII that is includible in the income of a U.S. tax-exempt organization would be treated as unrelated business taxable income. Although Endurance U.K. and Endurance Bermuda intend to generally operate in a manner so as to qualify for certain exceptions to the RPII rules, there can be no assurance that these exceptions will be available. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that U.S. Persons who own ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares will not be required to recognize gross income inclusions attributable to RPII. See “Material Tax Considerations — Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations — United States Taxation of Holders of Ordinary Shares and Series A Preferred Shares — Shareholders Who Are U.S. Persons - RPII Companies; RPII Exceptions.” The RPII rules provide that if a shareholder who is a U.S. Person disposes of shares in a foreign insurance corporation that has RPII and in which U.S. Persons collectively own 25% or more of the shares, any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as ordinary income to the extent of the shareholder’s share of the corporation’s undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the shareholder owned the shares (whether or not such earnings and profits are attributable to RPII). In addition, such a shareholder will be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned by the shareholder. These rules should not apply to dispositions of ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares because Endurance Holdings will not itself be directly engaged in the insurance business. The RPII provisions, however, have not been interpreted by the courts or the U.S. Treasury Department, and regulations interpreting the RPII provisions of the Code exist only in proposed form. Accordingly, the IRS might interpret the proposed regulations in a different manner and the applicable proposed regulations may be promulgated in final form in a manner that would cause these rules to apply to dispositions of our ordinary shares and Series A Preferred Shares. See “Material Tax Considerations — Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations — United States Taxation of Holders of Ordinary Shares and Series A Preferred Shares — Shareholders Who Are U.S. Persons — Disposition of Ordinary Shares and Series A Preferred Shares; Uncertainty as to the Application of RPII.” 37 U.S. Persons who hold ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares will be subject to adverse tax consequences if we are considered a “passive foreign investment company” (a “PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We believe that we should not be considered a PFIC for U.S. federal income purposes for the year ended December 31, 2008. Moreover, we do not expect to conduct our activities in a manner that would cause us to become a PFIC in the future. However, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge this position or that a court will not sustain such challenge. Accordingly, it is possible that we could be deemed a PFIC by the IRS or a court for the 2008 year or any future year. If we were considered a PFIC, it could have material adverse tax consequences for an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation, including subjecting the investor to a greater tax liability than might otherwise apply or subjecting the investor to tax on amounts in advance of when tax would otherwise be imposed. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC provisions to an insurance company. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying these rules may be forthcoming. We cannot predict what impact, if any, such guidance would have on a shareholder that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation. See “Material Tax Considerations — Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations — United States Taxation of Holders of Ordinary Shares and Series A Preferred Shares — Shareholders Who Are U.S. Persons — Passive Foreign Investment Companies.” Changes to U.S. Tax Legislation could have an adverse impact on us or our shareholders. Congress has discussed from time-to-time legislation intended to eliminate certain perceived tax advantages of companies (including insurance companies) that have legal domiciles outside the United States but have certain U.S. connections. In particular, Congress has recently conducted hearings relating to the tax treatment of offshore insurance and is reported to be considering legislation that would adversely affect reinsurance between affiliates and offshore insurance and reinsurance more generally. On September 18, 2008, U.S. Rep. Richard Neal introduced one such proposal, H.R. 6969, a bill which provides that U.S. insurers and reinsurers would be limited in the amount of deduction that could be claimed from reinsurance premiums ceded to offshore affiliates. The bill, which has been referred to the House Ways and Means Committee, would limit deductions for related party reinsurance cessions to the average percentage of premium ceded to unrelated reinsurers (determined in reference to individual business lines). Other proposals relating to cross-border transactions, intangible products, or non-U.S. jurisdictions generally have been introduced in a number of Congressional committees. Enactment of such legislation, depending on the specific details, could adversely affect our financial results. Changes in legislation also may materially impact advantageous federal income tax rates applicable to our dividends. Under current law, our dividends should constitute “qualified dividends” enabling certain of our U.S. shareholders to receive preferential federal income tax rates on such dividends received before January 1, 2011. See “Material Tax Considerations — Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations — United States Taxation of Holders of Ordinary Shares and Series A Preferred Shares — Shareholders Who Are U.S. Persons — Dividends.” The 110th Congress proposed legislation in March 2007 that would exclude shareholders of foreign companies from this advantageous federal income tax treatment unless either (i) the company is organized or created in a country that has entered into a “comprehensive income tax treaty” with the U.S. or (ii) the shares of such company are readily tradable on an established securities market in the U.S. and the company is organized or created in a country that has a comprehensive income tax system that the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury determines is satisfactory for this purpose. While no such legislation has been introduced by the 111th Congress, if this legislation were introduced and enacted, individual U.S. shareholders of Endurance may no longer qualify for the preferential federal income tax rates on our dividends because we may not satisfy standards as proposed or as may be proposed in the future. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (“OECD”) and the European Union are considering measures that might increase our taxes and reduce our net income. The OECD has published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. In the OECD’s report dated April 18, 2002 and updated as of June 2004 and November 2005 via a “Global Forum,” Bermuda was not listed as an uncooperative tax haven jurisdiction because it had previously committed to eliminate harmful tax practices and to embrace international tax standards for transparency, exchange of information and the elimination of any aspects of the regimes for financial and other services that attract business with no substantial domestic activity. We are not able to predict what changes will arise from the commitment or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes. REGULATORY MATTERS General The business of insurance and reinsurance is regulated in most countries, although the degree and type of regulation varies significantly from one jurisdiction to another. Reinsurers are generally subject to less direct regulation than primary insurers. 38 Bermuda The Insurance Act 1978 of Bermuda and related regulations, as amended (the “Insurance Act”), regulates the insurance business of Endurance Bermuda and provides that no person may carry on any insurance business in or from within Bermuda unless registered as an insurer by the Bermuda Monetary Authority (“BMA”) under the Insurance Act. Endurance Bermuda is registered as a Class 4 insurer by the BMA. As a holding company, Endurance Holdings is not subject to Bermuda insurance regulations. Insurance, as well as reinsurance, is regulated under the Insurance Act. The BMA, in deciding whether to grant registration, has broad discretion to act as it thinks fit in the public interest. The BMA is required by the Insurance Act to determine whether the applicant is a fit and proper body to be engaged in the insurance business and, in particular, whether (a) it has fulfilled the minimum criteria with respect to the body corporate, (b) it has, or has available to it, adequate knowledge and expertise to operate an insurance business and (c) the premises intended to be used in the business are adequate for the conduct of the business. The continued registration of an applicant as an insurer is subject to it complying with the terms of its registration and such other conditions as the BMA may impose from time to time. An Insurance Advisory Committee appointed by the Bermuda Minister of Finance (the “Minister”) advises the BMA on matters connected with the discharge of the BMA’s functions. Sub-committees of the Insurance Advisory Committee supervise and review the law and practice of insurance in Bermuda, including reviews of accounting and administrative procedures. The day-to-day supervision of insurers is the responsibility of the BMA. The Insurance Act also imposes on Bermuda insurance companies solvency and liquidity standards and auditing and reporting requirements and grants the BMA powers to supervise, investigate, require information and the production of documents and intervene in the affairs of insurance companies. Certain significant aspects of the Bermuda insurance regulatory framework are set forth below. In July 2008, the Insurance Amendment Act 2008 (the “Amendment Act”) was promulgated, which among other things, created a new supervisory framework for Bermuda insurers by establishing new risk-based regulatory capital adequacy and solvency margin requirements. The implementation of the new supervisory framework is to occur in phases, commencing with Class 4 insurers before being extended to certain commercial Class 3, Class 3A and Class 3B insurers. Under the new regulatory framework ushered in by the Amendment Act on December 31, 2008, the BMA promulgated the Insurance (Prudential Standards) (Class 4 Solvency Requirement) Order 2008 (the “Order”) which, inter alia, mandates that a Class 4 insurer’s Enhanced Capital Requirement (“ECR”) be calculated by either (a) the model set out in Schedule 1 to the Order or (b) an internal capital model which the BMA has approved for use for this purpose. More information on the ECR and the new risk-based regulatory capital adequacy and solvency margin regime introduced under the Amendment Act can be found in the section entitled “Enhanced Capital Requirement, Minimum Solvency Margin and Restrictions on Dividends and Distributions”. On December 11, 2008, the Bermuda House of Assembly approved amendments to Bermuda’s existing insurance regulations (the “Regulations”). The amended Regulations, which came into effect on 31 December 2008, compliment and in certain respects, are consequential to the changes instituted under the Amendment Act. The BMA utilizes a risk based approach when it comes to licensing and supervising insurance companies in Bermuda. As part of the BMA’s risk based system, an assessment of the inherent risks within each particular class of insurer is utilized in the first instance to determine the limitations and specific requirements which may be imposed. Thereafter, the BMA keeps its analysis of relative risk within individual institutions under review on an ongoing basis, including through the scrutiny of regular audited statutory financial statements, and, as appropriate, meeting with senior management during onsite visits. The initial meetings with senior management and any proposed onsite visit will primarily focus upon companies that are licensed as Class 3 and Class 4 insurers. The BMA has also recently adopted guidance notes, or the Guidance Notes, in order to ensure those operating in Bermuda have a good understanding of the nature of the requirements of, and the BMA’s approach in implementing, the Insurance Act. Classification of Insurers The Insurance Act distinguishes between insurers carrying on long-term business and insurers carrying on general business. There are six classifications of insurers carrying on general business, with Class 4 insurers subject to the strictest regulation. Endurance Bermuda, which is incorporated to carry on general insurance and reinsurance business, is registered as a Class 4 insurer in Bermuda and is regulated as such under the Insurance Act. Endurance Bermuda is not licensed to carry on long-term business. Cancellation of Insurer’s Registration An insurer’s registration may be canceled by the Supervisor of Insurance of the BMA on certain grounds specified in the Insurance Act, including failure of the insurer to comply with its obligations under the Insurance Act or if, in the opinion of the BMA after consultation with the Insurance Advisory Committee, the insurer has not been carrying on business in accordance with sound insurance principles. 39 Principal Representative An insurer is required to maintain a principal office in Bermuda and to appoint and maintain a principal representative in Bermuda. For the purpose of the Insurance Act, Endurance Bermuda’s principal office is its executive offices in Pembroke, Bermuda. Michael J. McGuire has been appointed by the Board of Directors as Endurance Bermuda’s principal representative and has been approved by the BMA. Without a reason acceptable to the BMA, an insurer may not terminate the appointment of its principal representative, and the principal representative may not cease to act as such, unless 30 days’ notice in writing to BMA is given of the intention to do so. A principal representative shall forthwith notify the BMA, in such a manner as it may direct, (a) on his reaching a view that there is a likelihood of the insurer for which he acts becoming insolvent, for instance the failure by the insurer to comply substantially with a condition imposed upon the insurer by the BMA relating to a solvency margin or liquidity or other ratio would be a reportable “event”; (b) on its coming to his knowledge, or his having reason to believe, that an event to which the applicable section of the Insurance Act applies has occurred, under the Amendment Act these events now include (i) circumstances where a Class 4 insurer undergoes a material change to the nature of the business it underwrites; and (ii) a significant loss which is likely to render the insurer unable to comply with its ECR. Within 14 days of such notification, the principal representative shall furnish the BMA with a report in writing setting out all the particulars of the case that are available to him. Independent Approved Auditor Every registered insurer must appoint an independent auditor who will audit and report annually on the statutory financial statements and the statutory financial return of the insurer, both of which, in the case of Endurance Bermuda, are required to be filed annually with the BMA. Endurance Bermuda’s independent auditor must be approved by the BMA and may be the same person or firm that audits Endurance Holdings’ consolidated financial statements and reports for presentation to its shareholders. Loss Reserve Specialist As a registered Class 4 insurer, Endurance Bermuda is required to submit an opinion of its approved loss reserve specialist with its statutory financial return in respect of its losses and loss expenses provisions. The loss reserve specialist, who will normally be a qualified casualty actuary, must be approved by the BMA. Michael E. Angelina, Chief Actuary and Chief Risk Officer for the Company, has been appointed by our Board of Directors and has been approved by the BMA to act as Endurance Bermuda’s loss reserve specialist. Statutory and GAAP Financial Statements An insurer must prepare annual statutory financial statements. The Insurance Act prescribes rules for the preparation and substance of these statutory financial statements (which include, in statutory form, a balance sheet, an income statement, a statement of capital and surplus and notes thereto). The insurer is required to give detailed information and analyses regarding premiums, claims, reinsurance and investments. The Amendment Act and amended Regulations have introduced a new accounts regime applicable to Class 4 insurers, including (i) a distinct methodology and new format to be applied when preparing and reporting the statutory balance sheet and statutory income statements for Class 4 insurers and (ii) accompanying explanatory notes to be added and instructions affecting each statutory statement. The most significant aspect of the amended regulations in relation to the statutory balance sheet of Class 4 insurers is the reporting obligation to detail, on a line-by-line basis, specific asset and liability classes, as well as the requirement to identify and distinguish between what is or is not attributable to affiliates of the Class 4 insurer. With effect from December 31, 2008, Class 4 insurers are required to prepare and file with the BMA audited annual financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP (that applies in Bermuda, U.K., U.S., or such other GAAP as the BMA may recognize) or International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”). These statements are to be submitted within four months from the end of the financial year to which they relate or, if the Class 4 insurer makes an application to the BMA, such longer period as may be allowed by the BMA but no longer than seven months from the end of the financial year to which they relate. The BMA will publish each such Class 4 insurer’s GAAP or IFRS audited financial statements. The statutory financial statements are not prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and are distinct from the financial statements prepared for presentation to the insurer’s shareholders under the Companies Act, which financial statements, in the case of the Company, will be prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. As a general business insurer, Endurance Bermuda is required to submit the annual statutory financial statements as part of the annual statutory financial return. The statutory financial statements and the statutory financial return do not form part of the public records maintained by BMA. 40 In addition to statutory financial statements, Class 4 insures are required to file audited GAAP financial statements with the BMA to be published publicly. The audited GAAP financial statements are to be filed with the annual statutory financial return. Annual Statutory Financial Return Endurance Bermuda is required to file with the BMA a statutory financial return no later than four months after its financial year end (unless specifically extended upon application to the BMA). The statutory financial return for a Class 4 insurer includes, among other matters, a report of the approved independent auditor on the statutory financial statements of the insurer, solvency certificates, the statutory financial statements, the opinion of the loss reserve specialist and a schedule of reinsurance ceded. The solvency certificates must be signed by the principal representative and at least two directors of the insurer certifying that the minimum solvency margin has been met and whether the insurer complied with the conditions attached to its certificate of registration. The independent auditor is required to state whether, in its opinion, it was reasonable for the directors to make these certifications and whether the declaration of the statutory ratios complies with the requirements of the Insurance Act. If an insurer’s accounts have been audited for any purpose other than compliance with the Insurance Act, a statement to that effect must be filed with the statutory financial return. Enhanced Capital Requirement, Minimum Solvency Margin and Restrictions on Dividends and Distributions The new risk-based regulatory capital adequacy and solvency margin regime introduced under the Amendment Act, which came into effect on December 31, 2008, provides a risk-based capital model as a tool to assist the BMA both in measuring risk and in determining appropriate levels of capitalization (termed the Bermuda Solvency Capital Requirement (“BSCR”). BSCR employs a standard mathematical model that correlates the risk underwritten by Bermuda insurers to the capital that is dedicated to their business. The framework that has been developed and is set out in the Order, published on December 31, 2008, applies a standard measurement format to the risk associated with an insurer’s assets, liabilities and premiums, including a formula to take account of the catastrophe risk exposure. Where the insurer believes that its own internal model for measuring risk and determining appropriate levels of capital better reflects the inherent risk of its business, it may make application to the BMA for approval to use its internal capital model in substitution for the BSCR model. The BMA may approve an insurer’s internal model provided certain conditions have been established and may revoke approval of an internal model in the event that the conditions are no longer met or where it feels that the revocation is appropriate. The BMA will review the internal model regularly to confirm that the model continues to meet the conditions. In order to minimise the risk of a shortfall in capital arising from an unexpected adverse deviation and in moving towards the implementation of a risk-based capital approach, the BMA seeks that insurers operate at or above a threshold capital level (termed the Target Capital Level (“TCL”)), which exceeds the BSCR or approved internal model minimum amounts. The Amendment Act also introduced prudential standards in relation to the ECR and Capital and Solvency Return (“CSR”). The ECR is determined using the BSCR or an approved internal model, provided that at all times the ECR must be an amount equal to, or exceeding the minimum margin of solvency. The CSR is the return setting out the insurers risk management practises and other information used by the insurer to calculate its approved internal model ECR. The new capital requirements require Class 4 insurers to hold available statutory capital and surplus equal to or exceeding ECR and set TCL at 120% of ECR. The BMA also has a degree of discretion enabling it to impose ECR on insurers in particular cases, for instance where an insurer falls below the TCL. In those cases, the new risk-based capital model should be supplemented by a requirement for the affected insurers to conduct certain stress and scenario testing in order to assess their potential vulnerability to defined extreme events. Where the results of scenario and stress-testing indicated potential capital vulnerability, the BMA would be able to require a higher solvency ‘cushion’ by increasing the 120% TCL figure. In circumstances where an insurer has failed to comply with an ECR given by the BMA in respect of that insurer, such insurer is prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends until the failure is rectified and the insurer is obliged to (i) provide the BMA, within fourteen days of the failure, with a written report as to why the failure occurred and remedial steps to be taken; and (ii) within forty-five days of the failure to provide the BMA with unaudited interim financial statements. The opinion of the loss reserve specialist, a general business solvency certificate in respect of the unaudited financials and a CSR reflecting an ECR prepared using post-failure data. 41 Underlying the new risk-based solvency capital regime described above is the minimum solvency margin test set out in the Insurance Returns and Solvency Amendment Regulations 1980 (as amended). While it must calculate its ECR annually by reference to either the BSCR or an approved internal model, a Class 4 insurer such as Endurance Bermuda must also ensure that, at all times, its ECR is at least equal to the minimum solvency margin for a Class 4 insurer in respect of its general business, which is the greater of: • $100,000,000; • 50% of net premiums written (being gross premiums written less any reinsurance premiums ceded (not exceeding 25% of gross premiums written)); • 15% of net loss and loss expense provisions and other general business insurance reserves. In addition, under the Insurance Act, Class 4 insurers are prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends of more than 25% of its total statutory capital and surplus, as shown on its previous financial year statutory balance sheet, unless at least seven days before payment of the dividends it files with the BMA an affidavit that it will continue to meet its required solvency margins. Endurance Bermuda as a Class 4 insurer must obtain the BMA’s prior approval before reducing its total statutory capital, as shown on its previous financial year statutory balance sheet, by 15% or more. Furthermore, under the Companies Act, Endurance Holdings and Endurance Bermuda may only declare or pay a dividend if Endurance Holdings or Endurance Bermuda, as the case may be, has no reasonable grounds for believing that it is, or would after the payment be, unable to pay its liabilities as they become due, or if the realizable value of its assets would not be less than the aggregate of its liabilities and its issued share capital and share premium accounts. Minimum Liquidity Ratio The Insurance Act provides a minimum liquidity ratio for general business insurers, like Endurance Bermuda. An insurer engaged in general business is required to maintain the value of its relevant assets at not less than 75% of the amount of its relevant liabilities. Relevant assets include, but are not limited to, cash and time deposits, quoted investments, unquoted bonds and debentures, first liens on real estate, investment income due and accrued, accounts and premiums receivable, reinsurance balances receivable and funds held by ceding reinsurers. There are certain categories of assets which, unless specifically permitted by the BMA, do not automatically qualify as relevant assets, such as unquoted equity securities, investments in and advances to affiliates and real estate and collateral loans. The relevant liabilities are total general business insurance reserves and total other liabilities less deferred income tax and sundry liabilities (by interpretation, those not specifically defined), letters of credit and guarantees. Supervision, Investigation and Intervention The BMA may appoint an inspector with extensive powers to investigate the affairs of Endurance Bermuda if the BMA believes that such an investigation is in the best interests of its policyholders or persons who may become policyholders. In order to verify or supplement information otherwise provided to the BMA, the BMA may direct Endurance Bermuda to produce documents or information relating to matters connected with its business. In addition, the BMA has the power to require the production of documents from any person who appears to be in possession of such documents. Further, the BMA has the power, in respect of a person registered under the Insurance Act, to appoint a professional person to prepare a report on any aspect of any matter about which the BMA has required or could require information. If it appears to the BMA to be desirable in the interests of the clients of a person registered under the Insurance Act, the BMA may also exercise these powers in relation to any company which is or has at any relevant time been (a) a parent company, subsidiary company or related company of that registered person, (b) a subsidiary company of a parent company of that registered person, (c) a parent company of a subsidiary company of that registered person or (d) a company in the case of which a shareholder controller of that registered person, either alone or with any associate or associates, holds 50 percent or more of the shares or is entitled to exercise, or control the exercise, of more than 50 percent of the voting power at a general meeting. If it appears to the BMA that there is a risk of Endurance Bermuda becoming insolvent, or that Endurance Bermuda is in breach of the Insurance Act or any conditions imposed upon its registration, the BMA may, among other things, direct Endurance Bermuda (i) not to effect further contracts of insurance, or any contract of insurance of a specified description; (ii) to limit the aggregate of the premiums to be written by it during a specified period beginning not earlier than 28 days after the direction is given; (iii) not to vary any contract of insurance in force when the direction is given, if the effect of the variation would be to increase the liabilities of the insurer; (iv) not to make any investment of a specified class; (v) before the expiration of a specified period (or such longer period as the BMA may allow) to realize any existing investment of a specified class; (vi) not to declare or pay any dividends or any other distributions, or to restrict the making of such payments to such extent as the BMA thinks fit; (vii) not to enter into any specified transaction with any specified person or persons of a specified class; (viii) to provide such written particulars relating to the financial circumstances of the insurer as the BMA thinks fit; and (ix) to obtain the opinion of a loss reserve specialist with respect to general business, or an actuarial opinion with respect to long-term business, and to submit it to the BMA within a specified time. 42 Disclosure of Information In addition to powers under the Insurance Act to investigate the affairs of an insurer, the BMA may require certain information from an insurer (or certain other persons) to be produced to them. Further, the BMA has been given powers to assist other regulatory authorities, including foreign insurance regulatory authorities, with their investigations involving insurance and reinsurance companies in Bermuda but subject to restrictions. For example, the BMA must be satisfied that the assistance being requested is in connection with the discharge of regulatory responsibilities of the foreign regulatory authority. Further, the BMA must consider whether cooperation is in the public interest. The grounds for disclosure are limited and the Insurance Act provides sanctions for breach of the statutory duty of confidentiality. Under the Companies Act, the Minister has been given powers to assist a foreign regulatory authority which has requested assistance in connection with enquiries being carried out by it in the performance of its regulatory functions. The Minister’s powers include requiring a person to furnish him with information, to produce documents to him, to attend and answer questions and to give assistance in connection with enquiries. The Minister must be satisfied that the assistance requested by the foreign regulatory authority is for the purpose of its regulatory functions and that the request is in relation to information in Bermuda which a person has in his possession or under his control. The Minister must consider, among other things, whether it is in the public interest to give the information sought. Bermuda Guidance Notes The BMA has issued Guidance Notes on the application of the Insurance Act in respect of the duties, requirements and standards to be complied with by persons registered under the Insurance Act or otherwise regulated under it and the procedures and sound principles to be observed by such persons and by auditors, principal representatives and loss reserve specialists. In March 2005, the BMA issued the Guidance Notes through its web site at www.bma.bm, which provides guidance on, among other things, the roles of the principal representative, approved auditor, and approved actuary and corporate governance for Bermuda insurers. The BMA has stated that the Guidance Notes should be understood as reflecting the minimum standard that the BMA expects insurers such as Endurance Bermuda and other relevant parties to observe at all times. Controller Notification Each shareholder or prospective shareholder will be responsible for notifying the BMA in writing within 45 days of his becoming a controller, directly or indirectly, of 10%, 20%, 33% or 50% of Endurance Holdings and Endurance Bermuda. The BMA may serve a notice of objection on any controller of Endurance Bermuda if it appears to the BMA that the person is no longer fit and proper to be such a controller. Endurance Bermuda will be responsible for giving written notice to the BMA of the fact that any person has become or ceases to be 10%, 20%, 33% or 50% controller of Endurance Bermuda. The Notice has to be given within 45 days of Endurance Bermuda becoming aware of the relevant facts. Endurance Bermuda is also required to notify the BMA in writing in the event of any person ceasing to be a controller, a controller being a managing director, chief executive or other person in accordance with whose directions or instructions the directors of Endurance Bermuda are accustomed to act, including any person who holds, or is entitled to exercise, 10% or more of the voting shares or voting power or is able to exercise a significant influence over the management of Endurance Bermuda. Bermuda Statement of Principles In June 2007, the BMA pursuant to section 2A of the Insurance Act introduced the Principles. The Principles relate to the BMA’s decisions on whether to register an entity, to cancel the registration of a registered entity, to impose conditions upon a registration, or to give certain directions to a registered entity. These Principles are of general application and seek to take account of the wide diversity of registered entities that may be licensed under the Insurance Act, as well as relevant institutional and market developments. Code of Conduct The BMA proposes to implement a Code of Conduct which will address the standards, duties and requirements that a registered person’s (which includes an insurer) internal policies and procedures must provide for in relation to matters such as corporate governance, risk assessment, risk and investment management, insurance activities and market conduct. The BMA will take into account whether a relevant insurer such as Endurance Bermuda complies with the Code of Conduct and as such is indeed conducting its business in a prudent manner as required under the Insurance Act. The BMA has published its proposed approach to the implementation of the Code of Conduct for registered persons on its website at www.bma.bm.. 43 Certain Other Bermuda Law Considerations Endurance Holdings and Endurance Bermuda will each also need to comply with the provisions of the Companies Act regulating the payment of dividends and making of distributions from contributed surplus. A company is prohibited from declaring or paying a dividend, or making a distribution out of contributed surplus, if there are reasonable grounds for believing that: (a) the Company is, or would after the payment be, unable to pay its liabilities as they become due; or (b) the realizable value of the Company’s assets would thereby be less than the aggregate of its liabilities and its issued share capital and share premium accounts. Although Endurance Bermuda is incorporated in Bermuda, it is classified as a non-resident of Bermuda for exchange control purposes by the BMA. Pursuant to its non-resident status, Endurance Bermuda may engage in transactions in currencies other than Bermuda dollars and there are no restrictions on its ability to transfer funds (other than funds denominated in Bermuda dollars) in and out of Bermuda or to pay dividends to United States residents who are holders of its ordinary shares. Under Bermuda law, exempted companies are companies formed for the purpose of conducting business outside Bermuda from a principal place of business in Bermuda. As “exempted” companies, Endurance Holdings and Endurance Bermuda may not, without the express authorization of the Bermuda legislature or under a license or consent granted by the Minister, participate in certain business transactions, including: (1) the acquisition or holding of land in Bermuda (except that held by way of lease or tenancy agreement which is required for its business and held for a term not exceeding 50 years, or which is used to provide accommodation or recreational facilities for its officers and employees and held with the consent of the Minister, for a term not exceeding 21 years); (2) the taking of mortgages on land in Bermuda to secure an amount in excess of $50,000; (3) to acquire any bonds or debentures secured on any land in Bermuda except bonds or debentures issued by the Government of Bermuda or a public authority or (4) the carrying on of business of any kind for which it is not licensed in Bermuda, except in certain limited circumstances such as doing business with another exempted undertaking in furtherance of Endurance Holdings’ business or Endurance Bermuda’s business (as the case may be) carried on outside Bermuda. Endurance Bermuda is a licensed insurer in Bermuda, and so may carry on activities from Bermuda that are related to and in support of its insurance business. Securities may be offered or sold in Bermuda only in compliance with the provisions of the Investment Business Act 2003, and Exchange Control Act 1972, and related regulations of Bermuda which regulate the sale of securities in Bermuda. In addition, specific permission is required from the BMA, pursuant to the provisions of the Exchange Control Act 1972 and related regulations, for all issuances and transfers of securities of Bermuda companies, other than in cases where the BMA has granted a general permission. The BMA, in its policy dated June 1, 2005, provides that where any equity securities, which would include our ordinary shares, of a Bermuda company are listed on an appointed stock exchange (the New York Stock Exchange is deemed to be an appointed stock exchange under Bermuda law), general permission is given for the issue and subsequent transfer of any securities of a company from and/or to a non-resident, for as long as any equity securities of the company remain so listed. Notwithstanding the above general permission, the BMA has granted us permission to, subject to our ordinary or voting shares being listed on an appointed stock exchange, issue, grant, create, sell and transfer any of our shares, stock, bonds, notes (other than promissory notes), debentures, debenture stock, units under a unit trust scheme, shares in an oil royalty, options, warrants, coupons, rights and depository receipts, collectively, the “Securities”, to and among persons who are either resident or non-resident of Bermuda for exchange control purposes, whether or not the Securities (excluding, for the avoidance of doubt, our ordinary or voting shares) are listed on an appointed stock exchange. The Bermuda government actively encourages foreign investment in “exempted” entities like Endurance Holdings and Endurance Bermuda that are based in Bermuda, but do not operate in competition with local businesses. As well as having no restrictions on the degree of foreign ownership, Endurance Holdings and Endurance Bermuda are not currently subject to taxes computed on profits or income or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax or to any foreign exchange controls in Bermuda. See “Material Tax Considerations — Certain Bermuda Tax Considerations.” Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians (other than spouses of Bermudians or Permanent Resident Card (“PRC”) Holders) may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without a work permit issued by the Department of Immigration. Work permits may be granted or extended by the Bermuda Government upon showing that, after proper public advertisement in most cases, no Bermudian (or spouse of a Bermudian or PRC Holder) is available who meets the minimum standard requirements for the advertised position. In April 2001, the Bermuda Government announced a policy that places six-year term limits on individuals’ work, with certain exemptions for key employees. 44 U.K. Regulation General On December 1, 2001, the Financial Services Authority (“FSA”) assumed its full powers and responsibilities as the single statutory regulator responsible for regulating the financial services industry in respect of the carrying on of regulated activities (including deposit taking, insurance, investment management and most other financial services business by way of business in the U.K.), with the purpose of maintaining confidence in the U.K. financial system, providing public understanding of the system, securing the proper degree of protection for consumers and helping to reduce financial crime. It is a criminal offense for any person to carry on a regulated activity in the U.K. unless that person is authorized by the FSA and has been granted permission to carry on that regulated activity or falls under an exemption. Insurance business (which includes reinsurance business) is authorized and supervised by the FSA. Insurance business in the United Kingdom is divided between two main categories: long-term insurance (which is primarily investment-related) and general insurance. It is not possible for an insurance company to be authorized in both long-term and general insurance business. These two categories are both divided into “classes” (for example: permanent health and pension fund management are two classes of long-term insurance; damage to property and motor vehicle liability are two classes of general insurance). Under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (the “FSMA”), effecting or carrying out contracts of insurance, within a class of general or long-term insurance, by way of business in the United Kingdom, constitutes a regulated activity requiring individual authorization. An authorized insurance company must have permission for each class of insurance business it intends to write. Endurance U.K. has received authorization from the FSA to effect and carry out in the United Kingdom contracts of insurance in all classes of general business (limited in the case of credit and surety to reinsurance only) except legal expenses and assistance business. On January 14, 2005, as a result of the implementation by the United Kingdom Government of the Insurance Mediation Directive (2002/92/EC) various additional activities, which had previously been unregulated, fell within the scope of FSA regulation. Endurance U.K. has accordingly received authorization from the FSA to conduct the following additional regulated activities: arranging (bringing about) deals in investments and making arrangements with a view to transactions in investments. In both cases, those activities are restricted to non-investment insurance contracts. Endurance U.K. is also authorized to accept deposits (limited to accepting deposits in the course of carrying on insurance business for which it holds permission). As an authorized insurer in the United Kingdom, Endurance U.K. would be able to operate throughout the E.U., subject to certain regulatory requirements of the FSA and in some cases, certain local regulatory requirements. An insurance company with FSA authorization to write insurance business in the United Kingdom can seek consent from the FSA to allow it to provide cross-border services in other member states of the E.U. As an alternative, FSA consent may be obtained to establish a branch office within another member state. As an FSA authorized insurer, the insurance and reinsurance businesses of Endurance U.K. are subject to close supervision by the FSA. The FSA has implemented specific requirements for senior management arrangements, systems and controls of insurance and reinsurance companies under its jurisdiction, which place a strong emphasis on risk identification and management in relation to the prudential regulation of insurance and reinsurance business in the United Kingdom. In December 2004, the FSA prompted a market initiative in the United Kingdom insurance industry to resolve perceived problems resulting from contract uncertainty, which may exist where the full terms and conditions of a contract of insurance or reinsurance are not established at or before the time when the contract comes into force. The FSA’s stated preferred outcome was that a market solution should be produced which met the regulator’s main concerns, which were that policyholders should know precisely what protection they have bought; and that insurers, reinsurers and brokers should have a clearer view, at the time of inception of a contract of the relevant legal, fiduciary, operational and underwriting risks to which they are subject. On January 24, 2007, the FSA announced that the insurance industry had met the challenge laid down by the regulator to achieve a solution to contract certainty in the United Kingdom. Accordingly, the current publicly stated position of the FSA is that it does not, at present, intend to propose new rules to address the contract certainty issue. However, the FSA also stated that contract certainty would continue to be a supervisory priority in 2008 and that, in those cases where it believes that firms have fallen behind the rest of the market in reducing the number of contracts that do not meet the market’s contract certainty standards, it would consider regulatory action to address this, though no enforcement action has been taken in this regard to date. This action might include increases in required regulatory capital or the commencement of enforcement action. 45 In December 2007, the FSA published its new Insurance Conduct of Business sourcebook (“ICOBS”) which sets out the standards of the requirements for general insurance firms on how they deal with their customers. The new general insurance regime came into effect on January 6, 2008 with firms being allowed a six month transitional period for implementation. All firms are expected to have met the requested standards by July 6, 2008. ICOBS continues the FSA’s move to more principles based regulation. Supervision The FSA carries out the prudential supervision of insurance companies through a variety of methods, including the collection of information from statistical returns, review of accountants’ reports, visits to insurance companies and regular formal interviews. The FSA has adopted a risk-based approach to the supervision of insurance companies. Under this approach the FSA performs a formal risk assessment of insurance companies or groups carrying on business in the U.K. periodically, which varies in length according to the risk profile of the insurer. The FSA performs the risk assessment by analyzing information which it receives during the normal course of its supervision, such as regular prudential returns on the financial position of the insurance company, or which it acquires through a series of meetings with senior management of the insurance company. After each risk assessment, the FSA will inform the insurer of its views on the insurer’s risk profile. This will include details of any remedial action that the FSA requires and the likely consequences if this action is not taken. Solvency Requirements The FSA’s General Prudential Sourcebook and Prudential Sourcebook for Insurers (together, the “Prudential Sourcebooks”) require that insurance companies maintain a margin of solvency at all times in respect of any general insurance undertaken by the insurance company, the calculation of which in any particular case depends on the type and amount of insurance business a company writes. The method of calculation of the solvency margin is set out in the Prudential Sourcebooks, and for these purposes, all insurer’s assets and liabilities are subject to specific valuation rules which are set out in the Prudential Sourcebooks. Failure to maintain the required solvency margin is one of the grounds on which wide powers of intervention conferred upon the FSA may be exercised. For financial years ending on or after January 1, 2004, the calculation of the required margin of solvency has been amended as a result of the implementation of the E.U. Solvency I Directives. In respect of liability business accepted, 150% of the actual premiums written and claims incurred must be included in the calculation, which has had the effect of increasing the required minimum margin of solvency of Endurance U.K.. Endurance U.K. continuously monitors its solvency capital position and maintains capital in excess of the required minimum margin of solvency. Each insurance company writing various classes of business is also required by the Prudential Sourcebooks to maintain equalization provisions calculated in accordance with the provisions of the Prudential Sourcebook for Insurers. Insurers are required to calculate an Enhanced Capital Requirement (“ECR”) in addition to their required minimum solvency margin and to report it to the FSA (though the ECR is not part of the formal capital requirements under the Prudential Sourcebooks). This represents a more risk-based calculation than the statutory solvency margin requirements derived from the E.U. Directives. There is also a requirement for insurers to maintain financial resources which are adequate, both as to amount and quality, to ensure that there is no significant risk that its liabilities cannot be met as they come due. In order to carry out the assessment as to the necessary financial resources that are required, an insurer is required to identify the major sources of risk to its ability to meet its liabilities as they come due, and to carry out stress and scenario tests to identify an appropriate range of realistic adverse scenarios in which the risk crystallizes and to estimate the financial resources needed in each of the circumstances and events identified. In addition, the FSA gives individual capital guidance (“ICG”) regularly to insurers and reinsurers following receipt of individual capital assessments, prepared by firms themselves. The FSA’s guidance may be that a company should hold more or less than its then current level of regulatory capital, or that the company’s regulatory capital should remain unaltered. Endurance U.K. has submitted an individual capital assessment solvency calculation to the FSA and has agreed with the FSA the bases and methodology for this calculation. This calculation is used along with other tools by the FSA to help establish the ICG. Endurance U.K. is currently calculating the ECR for December 31, 2008. Should Endurance U.K. not meet this test, additional capital may be required. In addition, an insurer (other than a pure reinsurer) that is part of a group, is required to perform and submit to the FSA a solvency margin calculation return in respect of its ultimate parent undertaking, in accordance with the FSA’s rules. This return is not part of an insurer’s own solvency return and hence will not be publicly available. Although there is no requirement for the parent undertaking solvency calculation to show a positive result, the FSA may take action where it considers that the solvency of the insurance company is or may be jeopardized due to the group solvency position. Further, an insurer is required to report in its annual returns to the FSA all material related party transactions (e.g., intra group reinsurance, whose value is more than 5% of the insurer’s general insurance business amount). 46 The European Commission, jointly with Member States, is carrying out a fundamental review of the regulatory capital and supervisory regime of the insurance industry (the Solvency II project). Its objective is to establish a solvency system that is better matched to the true risks of insurers enabling supervisors to protect policyholders’ interests as effectively as possible and in accordance with common principles across the EU. Endurance U.K. is monitoring the ongoing consultation following publication of the Solvency II Framework Directive (the “Solvency II Directive”). The legislation implementing the final version of the Solvency II Directive is not likely to take effect in the U.K. until at the earliest October 2012, though in March 2009 the FSA intends to ask insurers about their current implementation planning and progress made towards complying with the requirements of the Solvency II Directive. Endurance UK intends to fully co-operate with the FSA in this respect. Restrictions on Dividend Payments U.K. company law prohibits Endurance U.K. from declaring a dividend to its shareholders unless it has “profits available for distribution.” The determination of whether a company has profits available for distribution is based on its accumulated realized profits less its accumulated realized losses. While the United Kingdom insurance regulatory laws impose no statutory restrictions on a general insurer’s ability to declare a dividend, the FSA strictly controls the maintenance of each insurance company’s solvency margin within its jurisdiction. The FSA’s rules require Endurance U.K. to notify the FSA of any proposed or actual payment of a dividend. Any such payment or proposal could result in regulatory intervention. In addition, the FSA requires authorized insurance companies to notify the FSA in advance of any significant dividend payment. Reporting Requirements U.K. insurance companies must prepare their financial statements under the Companies Act of 1985 (as amended), which requires the filing with Companies House of audited financial statements and related reports. In addition, U.K. insurance companies are required to file with the FSA regulatory returns, which include a revenue account, a profit and loss account and a balance sheet in prescribed forms. Under the Interim Prudential Sourcebook for Insurers, audited regulatory returns must be filed with the FSA within two months and 15 days (or three months where the delivery of the return is made electronically). Supervision of Management The FSA closely supervises the management of insurance companies through the approved persons regime, by which any appointment of persons to perform certain specified “controlled functions” within a regulated entity, must be approved by the FSA. Change of Control The Financial Services Market Act (the “FSMA”) regulates the acquisition of control of any U.K. insurance company authorized under the FSMA. Any company or individual that (together with its or his associates) directly or indirectly acquires 10% or more of the shares in a U.K. authorized insurance company or its parent company, or is entitled to exercise or control the exercise of 10% or more of the voting power in such authorized insurance company or its parent company, would be considered to have acquired control for the purposes of the relevant legislation, as would a person who had significant influence over the management of such authorized insurance company or its parent company by virtue of his shareholding or voting power in either. A purchaser of 10% or more of the ordinary shares would therefore be considered to have acquired control of Endurance U.K. Under the FSMA, any person proposing to acquire control over a U.K. authorized insurance company must give prior notification to the FSA of his intention to do so. The FSA would then have three months to consider that person’s application to acquire control. In considering whether to approve such application, the FSA must be satisfied that both the acquirer is a fit and proper person to have such control and that the interests of consumers would not be threatened by such acquisition of control. Failure to make the relevant prior application could result in action being taken against the Company by the FSA. As of March 2009, the above provisions governing changes of control will be amended through the implementation of the E.U. Acquisitions Directive. A number of changes to the existing provisions are to be made, including potentially broad new requirements to aggregate the voting rights and/or capital held by persons “acting in concert”; in relation to the time period given to the FSA for approving an application to acquire control, with the FSA then having 60 working days to make a decision following its acknowledgement of the application. The duration of this period may be stopped by the FSA once, to request further information, for a maximum of 20 days (30 days for non-EU applicants). Although the FSA may make further information requests, this does not “stop the clock”, meaning that the FSA has a maximum of 82 working days to consider an application from an EU applicant (92 for a non-EU applicant). 47 Intervention and Enforcement The FSA has extensive powers to intervene in the affairs of an authorized person, culminating in the ultimate sanction of the removal of authorization to carry on a regulated activity. FSMA imposes on the FSA statutory obligations to monitor compliance with the requirements imposed by FSMA, and to enforce the provisions of FSMA related rules made by the FSA. The FSA has power, among other things, to enforce and take disciplinary measures in respect of breaches of both the Prudential Sourcebooks and breaches of the conduct of business rules generally applicable to authorized persons. The FSA also has the power to prosecute criminal offences arising under FSMA, and to prosecute insider dealing under Part V of the Criminal Justice Act of 1993, and breaches of money laundering regulations. The FSA’s stated policy is to pursue criminal prosecution in all appropriate cases. Passporting European Union directives allow Endurance U.K. to conduct business in European Union states other than the United Kingdom in compliance with the scope of permission granted these companies by the FSA without the necessity of additional licensing or authorization in other European Union jurisdictions. This ability to operate in other jurisdictions of the European Union on the basis of home state authorization and supervision is sometimes referred to as passporting. Insurers may operate outside their home member state either on a services basis or on an establishment basis. Operating on a services basis means that the Company conducts permitted businesses in the host state without having a physical presence there, while operating on an establishment basis means the Company has a branch or physical presence in the host state. In both cases, a company remains subject to regulation by its home regulator, and not by local regulatory authorities, although the Company nonetheless may have to comply with certain local rules reserved to the “host state” (the state into which the services are being provided or in which the branch is being established). In addition to European Union member states, Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein (members of the broader European Economic Area) are jurisdictions in which this passporting framework applies. U.S. Regulation Endurance U.S. Reinsurance was organized under the laws of New York on September 5, 2002. On December 18, 2002, Endurance U.S. Reinsurance received a license to write certain lines of insurance and reinsurance business from the New York State Insurance Department. On August 1, 2005, Endurance U.S. Reinsurance acquired Endurance American Specialty Insurance Company, a Delaware insurance company, which transacts business on a surplus lines basis. On June 5, 2006, Endurance U.S. Reinsurance acquired Endurance American Insurance Company, a Delaware insurance company, which transacts business on an admitted basis. On June 8, 2007, Endurance U.S. Reinsurance acquired American Merchants Casualty Company, an Ohio insurance company that was subsequently redomesticated to Delaware, which transacts business on a surplus lines basis. On December 7, 2007, Endurance U.S. Holdings Corp. acquired American Agri-Business Insurance Company and ARMtech Insurance Services, Inc., each a Texas company. On January 30, 2008, Endurance Reinsurance Corporation of America completed its redomestication from New York to Delaware and is currently regulated by the Delaware Department of Insurance. Insurance Holding Company Regulation of Endurance Holdings Endurance Holdings and Endurance U.S. Holdings Corp., as parent companies of the Company’s U.S. operating companies, are subject to the insurance holding company laws of the States of Delaware and Texas, the states in which the Company’s U.S. operating subsidiaries are organized and domiciled. These laws generally require, among other things, the insurance holding company and each insurance company directly or indirectly owned by the holding company to register with the insurance departments of their respective domiciliary states and to furnish annually financial and other information about the operations of companies within the holding company system. Generally, all material transactions among companies in the holding company system involving the Company’s U.S. operating subsidiaries, including sales, loans, reinsurance agreements, service agreements, dividend payments and certain transactions within the insurance holding company system must be fair and, if material or of a specified category, require prior notice and approval or non-disapproval by the insurance regulator of the state in which the involved U.S. operating subsidiary is domiciled. 48 Changes of Control Before a person can acquire control of a U.S. domestic insurer (or reinsurer), prior written approval must be obtained from the insurance commissioner of the state where the insurer (or reinsurer) is domiciled, or the acquiror must make a disclaimer of control filing with the insurance department of such state. Prior to granting approval of an application to acquire control of a domestic insurer (or reinsurer), the domiciliary state insurance commissioner will consider such factors as the financial strength of the proposed acquiror, the integrity and management of the acquiror’s Board of Directors and executive officers, the acquiror’s plans for the future operations of the domestic insurer and any anti-competitive results that may arise from the consummation of the acquisition of control. Generally, state insurance statutes provide that control over a domestic insurer is presumed to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, owns, controls, holds with the power to vote, or holds proxies representing, ten percent or more of the voting securities of the domestic insurer. Because a person acquiring ten percent or more of Endurance Holdings’ ordinary shares would indirectly acquire the same percentage of common stock of Endurance Holdings’ U.S. operating subsidiaries, the U.S. insurance change of control laws will likely apply to such a transaction. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of Endurance Holdings, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of the shareholders of Endurance Holdings might consider to be desirable. State Insurance Regulation of the Company’s U.S. Operating Subsidiaries The terms and conditions of reinsurance agreements generally are not subject to regulation by any U.S. state insurance department with respect to rates or policy terms unlike primary insurance agreements, the rates and policy terms of which are generally closely regulated by state insurance departments. As a practical matter, however, the rates charged by primary insurers do have an effect on the rates that can be charged by reinsurers. State insurance authorities have broad regulatory powers with respect to various aspects of the business of Endurance U.S. Reinsurance, Endurance American, Endurance American Specialty, American Merchants and ARMtech including: licensing to transact business, admittance of assets to statutory surplus, regulating unfair trade and claims practices, establishing reserve requirements and solvency standards (including risk-based capital standards), approval of policy forms and dates, and regulating investments, dividends and transactions between an insurer and its affiliates. With respect to direct insurance business, states may also regulate rates and forms used by insurers admitted to transact business within a given state jurisdiction. State insurance laws and regulations require each of Endurance U.S. Reinsurance, Endurance American, Endurance American Specialty, American Merchants to file financial statements with insurance departments everywhere it is licensed, authorized or accredited to conduct insurance business; and the operations of Endurance U.S. Reinsurance, Endurance American, Endurance American Specialty, American Merchants and ARMtech are subject to examination by those departments at any time. Endurance U.S. Reinsurance, Endurance American, Endurance American Specialty, American Merchants and ARMtech prepare statutory financial statements in accordance with statutory accounting practices and procedures prescribed or permitted by these departments. State insurance departments also conduct periodic examinations of the books and records, financial reporting, policy filings and market conduct of insurance companies domiciled or authorized to transact business in their states, generally once every three to five years. Examinations are generally carried out in cooperation with the insurance departments of other states under guidelines promulgated by the NAIC. In general, such state regulation is for the protection of policyholders rather than shareholders. Under Delaware and Texas insurance laws, Endurance U.S. Reinsurance, Endurance American, Endurance American Specialty, American Merchants and ARMtech may only pay dividends to their respective parent companies out of earned surplus. In Delaware and Texas, earned surplus is defined as an amount equal to the unassigned funds of an insurer as set forth in the most recent annual statement of the insurer submitted to the applicable state insurance regulator, including all or part of the surplus arising from unrealized capital gains or revaluation of assets. In addition, the ability of Endurance U.S. Reinsurance, Endurance American, Endurance American Specialty, American Merchants and ARMtech to declare or pay any dividend, together with all dividends declared or distributed by it within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of: 1. Ten percent of its policyholders surplus as of the 31st day of December of the preceding year; or 2. the statutory net income, not including realized capital gains for the 12-month period ending, for the preceding calendar year (the 31st day of December next preceding) will be subject to the prior approval of the applicable state insurance regulator. Any dividend paid by Endurance U.S. Reinsurance, Endurance American, Endurance American Specialty, American Merchants and ARMtech must first be paid to its parent company. If the parent company is also an insurer, as is the case with Endurance American, Endurance American Specialty and American Merchants, the parent company or companies must also meet their own dividend eligibility requirements set forth above in order to pass along any dividends received from subsidiary insurance companies. 49 The dividend limitations imposed by Delaware and Texas insurance laws are based on the statutory financial results of the Company’s U.S. operating subsidiaries determined by using statutory accounting practices which differ in certain respects from accounting principles used in financial statements prepared in conformity with U.S. GAAP. The significant differences relate to deferred acquisition expenses, deferred income taxes, required investment reserves, reserve calculation assumptions and surplus notes. At December 31, 2008, of the Company’s U.S. operating subsidiaries, only American Merchants and ARMtech had earned surplus, and therefore, only American Merchants and ARMtech could declare or distribute a dividend in 2009 without prior regulatory approval. While the federal government does not directly regulate the insurance business (other than for flood, nuclear and reinsurance of losses from terrorism), federal legislation and administrative policies can affect the insurance industry. The federal government has also undertaken initiatives in several areas that may impact the insurance industry including tort reform, corporate governance and the taxation of insurance companies. In addition, legislation has been introduced from time to time in recent years that, if enacted, could result in the federal government assuming a more direct role in the regulation of the insurance industry, primarily as respects federal licensing in lieu of state licensing. Risk-Based Capital Regulations The insurance laws of Delaware and Texas require that insurers report their risk-based capital (“RBC”) based on a formula calculated by applying factors to various asset, premium and reserve items. The formula takes into account the risk characteristics of the insurer, including asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk and business risk. The state insurance departments of Delaware and Texas use the formula only as an early warning regulatory tool to identify possibly inadequately capitalized insurers for purposes of initiating regulatory action, and not as a means to rank insurers generally. Insurance laws impose broad confidentiality requirements on those engaged in the insurance business (including insurers, agents, brokers and others) and on the state insurance departments as to the use and publication of RBC data. The insurance departments of Delaware and Texas have explicit regulatory authority to require various actions by, or take various actions against, insurers whose total adjusted capital does not exceed certain RBC levels. Statutory Accounting Practices Statutory accounting practices, or “SAP,” are a basis of accounting developed to assist U.S. insurance regulators in monitoring and regulating the solvency of insurance companies. It is primarily concerned with measuring an insurer’s surplus to policyholders. Accordingly, statutory accounting focuses on valuing assets and liabilities of insurers at financial reporting dates in accordance with appropriate insurance law and regulatory provisions applicable in each insurer’s domiciliary state. U.S. GAAP concerns an insurer’s solvency, but it also concerns other financial measurements, such as income and cash flows. Accordingly, U.S. GAAP gives more consideration to appropriate matching of revenue and expenses and accounting for management’s stewardship of assets than does SAP. As a direct result, different assets and liabilities and different amounts of assets and liabilities will be reflected in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP as opposed to SAP. Statutory accounting practices established by the NAIC and adopted, in part, by the Delaware and Texas insurance regulators, determine, among other things, the amount of statutory surplus and statutory net income of Endurance Holdings’ U.S. insurance company subsidiaries and thus determine, in part, the amount of funds they have available to pay dividends to their respective parent companies. Operations of Endurance U.K. and Endurance Bermuda Endurance U.K. and Endurance Bermuda are not admitted to do business in any state in the United States. Insurance laws of each state of the United States and of many other countries restrict or prohibit the sale of insurance and reinsurance within their jurisdictions by non-admitted alien insurers and reinsurers such as Endurance U.K. and Endurance Bermuda. 50 In addition to the regulatory requirements imposed by the jurisdictions in which they are licensed, reinsurers’ business operations are affected by regulatory requirements in various states of the United States governing “credit for reinsurance” which are imposed on their ceding companies. In general, a ceding company that obtains reinsurance from a reinsurer that is licensed, accredited or approved by the jurisdiction or state in which the reinsurer files statutory financial statements is permitted to reflect in its statutory financial statements a credit in an aggregate amount equal to the liability for unearned premiums (which are that portion of written premiums which applies to the remaining portion of the policy period) and loss reserves and loss expense reserves ceded to the reinsurer. As stated above, Endurance U.K. and Endurance Bermuda are not licensed, accredited or approved in any state in the United States. The great majority of states, however, permit a credit to statutory surplus resulting from reinsurance obtained from a non-licensed or non-accredited reinsurer to be offset to the extent that the reinsurer provides a letter of credit or other acceptable security arrangement. A few states do not allow credit for reinsurance ceded to non-licensed or non-accredited reinsurers except in certain limited circumstances and others impose additional requirements that make it difficult to become accredited. We do not believe that Endurance U.K. and Endurance Bermuda are in violation of insurance laws of any jurisdiction in the United States. There can be no assurance however, that inquiries or challenges to Endurance U.K.’s or Endurance Bermuda’s insurance or reinsurance activities will not be raised in the future. Switzerland In 2008, Endurance Bermuda established a branch in Zurich, Switzerland named Endurance Specialty Insurance Ltd. Pembroke (Bermuda) Zurich Branch. The Swiss Financial Regulator does not impose additional regulation upon a branch of an authorized reinsurer. On January 1, 2009, the Federal Act on the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority (“FINMA”), which the Swiss Parliament approved in June 2007, went into full legal force. The effect of the Act was to merge three bodies — the Federal Office of Private Insurance, the Swiss Federal Banking Commission and the Anti-Money Laundering Control Authority — into FINMA. Until their merger and incorporation into FINMA, these three authorities retained responsibility for their own areas of activity. Singapore In 2008, Endurance Specialty Insurance Ltd., Singapore Branch received regulatory approval from the Monetary Authority of Singapore to operate as a branch insurer in Singapore to transact insurance and reinsurance domestically and internationally. The branch is regulated by the Monetary Authority of Singapore pursuant to The Insurance Act. Endurance Specialty Insurance Ltd., Singapore Branch is also registered by the Accounting and Corporate Regulatory Authority (“ACRA”) as a foreign company in Singapore and is regulated by ACRA pursuant to The Companies Act. 51 MATERIAL TAX CONSIDERATIONS Certain Bermuda Tax Considerations Currently, there is no Bermuda income, corporation or profits tax, withholding tax, capital gains tax, capital transfer tax, estate duty or inheritance tax payable by us or our shareholders, other than shareholders ordinarily resident in Bermuda, if any. Currently, there is no Bermuda withholding or other tax on principal interest or dividends paid to holders of the ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares, other than holders ordinarily resident in Bermuda, if any. There can be no assurance that we or our shareholders will not be subject to any such tax in the future. Endurance Bermuda has received written assurance dated December 7, 2001 and Endurance Holdings has received written assurance dated July 18, 2002 from the Minister of Finance under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966 of Bermuda, as amended, that if there is enacted in Bermuda any legislation imposing tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of that tax would not be applicable to Endurance Bermuda or Endurance Holdings or to any of their respective operations, shares, debentures or obligations until March 28, 2016; provided, that the assurance is subject to the condition that it will not be construed to prevent the application of such tax to people ordinarily resident in Bermuda, or to prevent the application of any taxes payable by Endurance Bermuda or Endurance Holdings in respect of real property or leasehold interests in Bermuda held by them. To date, the Ministry of Finance has given no indication that the Ministry: (i) would not extend the term of the assurance beyond 2016; or (ii) would allow the term of the assurance to expire; or (iii) would change the tax treatment afforded to exempted companies either before or after 2016. Certain United Kingdom Tax Considerations Endurance U.K. is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom and is resident in the United Kingdom for United Kingdom corporation tax purposes and will be subject to United Kingdom corporation tax on its worldwide profits. The current rate of United Kingdom corporation tax is generally 28% on profits of whatever description. Currently, no United Kingdom withholding tax applies to dividends paid by Endurance U.K. Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations The following discussion is a summary of certain U.S. federal income tax considerations relating to Endurance Holdings and its operating subsidiaries in Bermuda, the United States and the United Kingdom and the ownership of our ordinary shares and Series A Preferred Shares. This summary is based upon the Code, the regulations promulgated thereunder, rulings and other administrative pronouncements issued by the IRS, judicial decisions, the tax treaty between the United States and Bermuda (the “Bermuda Treaty”) and the tax treaty between the United States and the United Kingdom (the “U.K. Treaty”), all as currently in effect, and all of which are subject to differing interpretations or to change, possibly with retroactive effect. No assurance can be given that the IRS would assert, or that a court would not sustain, a position contrary to any of the tax consequences described below. No advance ruling has been or will be sought from the IRS regarding any matter discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This summary is for general information only, and does not purport to discuss all aspects of U.S. federal income taxation that may be important to a particular investor in light of such investor’s investment or tax circumstances, or to investors subject to special tax rules, such as tax-exempt organizations, dealers in securities, banks, insurance companies, persons that hold ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares that are a hedge or that are hedged against interest rate or insurance risks or that are part of a straddle or conversion transaction, or persons whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar. This summary assumes that an investor will hold our ordinary shares and Series A Preferred Shares as capital assets, which generally means as property held for investment. Investors should consult their tax advisors concerning the consequences, in their particular circumstances, of the ownership of ordinary shares and Series A Preferred Shares under U.S. federal, state, local and other tax laws. For U.S. federal income tax purposes and for purposes of the following discussion, a “U.S. Person” means (i) a citizen or resident of the United States, (ii) a corporation, or other entity treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, or a partnership, or other entity treated as a partnership for U.S federal income tax purposes, in each case created or organized in the United States or under the laws of the United States or of any of its political subdivisions, (iii) an estate the income of which is subject to U.S. federal income tax without regard to its source or (iv) a trust if either (a) a court within the United States is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of the trust and one or more U.S. Persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust or (b) the trust has a valid election in effect to be treated as a U.S. Person for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A “Non-U.S. Person” is a nonresident alien individual, or a corporation, estate or trust that is not a U.S. person. 52 If a partnership owns ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares, the tax treatment of a partner will generally depend upon the status of the partner and the activities of the partnership. If you are a partner of a partnership that owns ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares, you should consult your tax advisor. United States Taxation of Endurance Holdings and its Operating Subsidiaries We intend to operate Endurance Holdings and its non-U.S. subsidiaries in such a manner that they will not be considered to be conducting business within the United States for purposes of U.S. federal income taxation. Whether business is being conducted in the United States is an inherently factual determination. Because the Code, regulations and court decisions fail to identify definitively activities that constitute being engaged in a trade or business in the United States, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not contend successfully that Endurance Holdings, Endurance Bermuda and/or Endurance U.K. are or will be engaged in a trade or business in the United States. A foreign corporation deemed to be so engaged would be subject to U.S. federal income tax (at a current maximum rate of 35%), as well as a 30% branch profits tax in certain circumstances, on its income which is treated as effectively connected with the conduct of that trade or business unless the corporation is entitled to relief under the permanent establishment provision of an applicable tax treaty, as discussed below. Such income tax, if imposed, would be based on effectively connected income computed in a manner generally analogous to that applied to the income of a U.S. corporation, except that a foreign corporation is entitled to deductions and credits only if it timely files a U.S. federal income tax return. Endurance Holdings, Endurance Bermuda and Endurance U.K. intend to file protective U.S. federal income tax returns on a timely basis in order to preserve the right to claim income tax deductions and credits if it is ever determined that they are subject to U.S. federal income tax. If Endurance Bermuda is entitled to the benefits under the Bermuda Treaty, it will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on any income found to be effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business unless that trade or business is conducted through a permanent establishment in the United States. Whether business is being conducted in the United States through a permanent establishment is an inherently factual determination. Endurance Bermuda intends to conduct its activities so as not to have a permanent establishment in the United States, although there can be no assurance that it will achieve this result. An insurance enterprise resident in Bermuda generally will be entitled to the benefits of the Bermuda Treaty if (i) more than 50% of its shares are owned beneficially, directly or indirectly, by individual residents of the United States or Bermuda or U.S. citizens and (ii) its income is not used in substantial part, directly or indirectly, to make disproportionate distributions to, or to meet certain liabilities of, persons who are neither residents of either the United States or Bermuda nor U.S. citizens. Foreign insurance companies that conduct an insurance business within the United States must maintain a certain minimum amount of effectively connected net investment income, determined in accordance with a formula that depends, in part, on the amount of U.S. risk insured or reinsured by such companies. If Endurance Bermuda is considered to be engaged in the conduct of an insurance business in the United States and it is not entitled to the benefits of the Bermuda Treaty, either because it fails to satisfy one of the limitations on Bermuda Treaty benefits described above or because Endurance Bermuda is considered to have a U.S. permanent establishment, a significant portion of Endurance Bermuda’s premium and investment income could be subject to U.S. federal income tax. In addition, while the Bermuda Treaty clearly applies to premium income, it is not clear whether it applies to other income, such as investment income. Consequently, if Endurance Bermuda is considered to be engaged in the conduct of an insurance business in the United States and is entitled to the benefits of the Bermuda Treaty, but the Bermuda Treaty is interpreted so as not to apply to investment income, a significant portion of Endurance Bermuda’s investment income could be subject to U.S. federal income tax even if Endurance Bermuda does not maintain a permanent establishment in the United States. Under the U.K. Treaty, Endurance U.K., if entitled to the benefits of the U.K. Treaty, will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on any income found to be effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business unless that trade or business is conducted through a permanent establishment in the United States. Endurance U.K. intends to conduct its activities in a manner so that it does not have a permanent establishment in the United States, although we cannot predict whether we will achieve this result. Endurance U.K. will be entitled to the benefits of the U.K. Treaty if (i) during at least half of the days in the relevant taxable period, at least 50% of Endurance U.K.’s stock is beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by citizens or residents of the United States and the United Kingdom, and less than 50% of Endurance U.K.’s gross income for the relevant taxable period is paid or accrued, directly or indirectly, to persons who are not U.S. or U.K. residents in the form of payments that are deductible for purposes of U.K. taxation or (ii) with respect to specific items of income, profit or gain derived from the United States, if such income, profit or gain is considered to be derived in connection with, or incidental to, Endurance U.K.’s business conducted in the United Kingdom. 53 Foreign corporations not engaged in a trade or business in the United States are nonetheless subject to U.S. withholding tax at a rate of 30% of the gross amount of certain “fixed or determinable annual or periodical gains, profits and income” derived from sources within the United States (such as dividends and certain interest on investments), subject to reduction by applicable treaties. The United States also imposes an excise tax on insurance and reinsurance premiums paid to foreign insurers or reinsurers with respect to risks located in the United States. The rate of tax applicable to premiums paid to Endurance Bermuda is 4% for casualty insurance premiums and 1% for reinsurance premiums. The excise tax will not apply to premiums paid to Endurance U.K. if Endurance U.K. is entitled to the benefits of the U.K. Treaty, and certain other requirements are met. Endurance U.S. Reinsurance, Endurance American, Endurance American Specialty and American Merchants are Delaware corporations and ARMtech is a Texas corporation. Each will be subject to taxation in the United States at regular corporate rates. Dividends paid by Endurance U.S. Holdings Corp. to Endurance Bermuda will be subject to U.S. withholding tax at the rate of 30%. United States Taxation of Holders of Ordinary Shares and Series A Preferred Shares Shareholders Who Are U.S. Persons Dividends. Distributions with respect to ordinary shares and Series A Preferred Shares (including the payment of additional amounts, in the case of the Series A Preferred Shares) will be treated as ordinary dividend income to the extent of Endurance Holdings’ current or accumulated earnings and profits as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes, subject to the discussion below relating to the potential application of the “controlled foreign corporation,” “related person insurance income” and “passive foreign investment company” rules. These dividends should constitute “qualified dividend income” as defined in Section 1(h)(11)(B) of the Code and, thus, should be entitled to the 15% preferential federal income tax rate applicable to “qualified dividends” received before January 1, 2011 by certain shareholders (such as individuals), provided that certain holding period requirements are satisfied and certain other conditions are met, and provided further that we are not considered a PFIC. Distributions with respect to Endurance Holdings’ ordinary shares and Series A Preferred Shares will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction allowed to U.S. corporations under the Code. The amount of any distribution in excess of the current and accumulated earnings and profits of Endurance Holdings will first be applied to reduce a holder’s tax basis in the ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares as the case may be, and any amount in excess of tax basis will be treated as gain from the sale or exchange of such holder’s shares. Classification of Endurance Holdings, Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda as a Controlled Foreign Corporation. Each “10% U.S. Shareholder” of a foreign corporation that is a Controlled Foreign Corporation (“CFC”) for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during a taxable year, and who owns shares in the CFC directly or indirectly through foreign entities, in such corporation on the last day, in such year, in which such corporation is a CFC must include in its gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of the CFC’s “subpart F income,” even if the subpart F income is not distributed. A foreign corporation is considered a CFC if “10% U.S. Shareholders” own (directly, indirectly through foreign entities or constructively pursuant to the application of certain constructive ownership rules) more than 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of voting stock of such foreign corporation, or the total value of all stock of such corporation. A 10% U.S. Shareholder is a U.S. Person who owns at least 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote of the foreign corporation. The Series A Preferred Shares should not be considered voting stock for purposes of determining whether a U.S. Person would be a “10% U.S. Shareholder” unless and until there exists a Nonpayment Event which triggers the Series A Preferred Shareholders’ right to elect two additional directors to the Board of Directors of Endurance Holdings. In such case, the Series A Preferred Shares should be treated as voting stock for as long as such right continues. For purposes of taking into account insurance income, a CFC also includes a foreign corporation in which more than 25% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock (or more than 25% of the total value of the stock) is owned (directly, indirectly through foreign entities or constructively pursuant to the application of certain constructive ownership rules) by 10% U.S. Shareholders, on any day during the taxable year of such corporation, if the gross amount of premiums or other consideration for the reinsurance or the issuing of insurance contracts exceeds 75% of the gross amount of all premiums or other consideration in respect of all risks. Due to the anticipated dispersion of Endurance Holdings’ share ownership among holders, its bye-law provisions that impose limitations on the concentration of voting power of any shares that are entitled to vote and authorize the board to repurchase such shares under certain circumstances and other factors, no U.S. Person that owns shares in Endurance Holdings directly or indirectly through foreign entities should be subject to treatment as a 10% U.S. Shareholder of a CFC. There can be no assurance, however, that the IRS will not challenge the effectiveness of these provisions for purposes of preventing 10% U.S. Shareholder status and that a court will not sustain such challenge. 54 RPII Companies. The CFC rules also apply to certain insurance companies that earn “related person insurance income.” For purposes of applying the CFC rules to foreign corporations that earn RPII, a different definition of “controlled foreign corporation,” as discussed below, applies. RPII is defined as any “insurance income” attributable to policies of insurance or reinsurance with respect to which the person (directly or indirectly) insured is a “RPII Shareholder” of the foreign corporation or a “related person” to such RPII Shareholder. In general, and subject to certain limitations, “insurance income” is income (including premium and investment income) attributable to the issuing of any insurance or reinsurance contract which would be taxed under the portions of the Code relating to insurance companies if the income were the income of a domestic insurance company. For purposes of the RPII rules, “related person” means someone who controls or is controlled by the RPII Shareholder or someone who is controlled by the same person or persons which control the RPII Shareholder. “Control” is measured by either more than 50% in value or more than 50% in voting power of stock, applying constructive ownership principles. A corporation’s pension plan is ordinarily not a “related person” with respect to the corporation unless the pension plan owns, directly or indirectly through the application of constructive ownership rules, more than 50%, measured by vote or value, of the stock of the corporation. For purposes of inclusion of Endurance U.K.’s or Endurance Bermuda’s RPII in the income of a RPII Shareholder, to the extent required under the RPII rules, the term “RPII Shareholder” means any U.S. Person who owns, directly or indirectly through foreign entities, any amount (rather than stock possessing 10% or more of the total combined voting power) of Endurance U.K.’s or Endurance Bermuda’s stock. Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda will be treated as a CFC for RPII purposes if such persons collectively own directly, indirectly through foreign entities or by application of the constructive ownership rules 25% or more of the stock of Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda by vote or value. RPII Exceptions. The special RPII rules do not apply if (i) direct or indirect insureds and persons related to such insureds, whether or not U.S. Persons, own, directly or indirectly, less than 20% of the voting power and less than 20% of the value of the stock of Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda, as applicable (the “20% Ownership Exception”), (ii) RPII, determined on a gross basis, is less than 20% of Endurance U.K.’s or Endurance Bermuda’s gross insurance income for the taxable year, as applicable (the “20% Gross Income Exception”), (iii) Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda elects to be taxed on its RPII as if the RPII were effectively connected with the conduct of a U.S. trade or business and to waive all treaty benefits with respect to RPII and meets certain other requirements or (iv) Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda elects to be treated as a U.S. corporation. Endurance Bermuda and Endurance U.K. intend to operate in a manner that is intended to ensure that each qualifies for the 20% Gross Income Exception. It is possible that neither Endurance Bermuda nor Endurance U.K. will be successful in qualifying under this exception. If none of these exceptions applies, each U.S. Person who owns shares in Endurance Holdings (and therefore, indirectly in Endurance U.K. and Endurance Bermuda) on the last day of Endurance Holdings’ taxable year, will be required to include in its gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its share of RPII of Endurance U.K. and/or Endurance Bermuda for the entire taxable year. This inclusion will be determined as if such RPII were distributed proportionately only to such U.S. Persons holding shares in Endurance Holdings at that date. The inclusion will be limited to the current-year earnings and profits of Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda, as applicable, reduced by the shareholder’s pro rata share, if any, of certain prior year deficits in earnings and profits. Basis Adjustments. A RPII Shareholder’s tax basis in its Endurance Holdings ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares, as the case may be, will be increased by the amount of any RPII that the shareholder includes in income. Any distributions made by Endurance Holdings out of previously taxed RPII income will be exempt from further tax in the hands of the RPII Shareholder. The RPII Shareholder’s tax basis in its Endurance Holdings shares will be reduced by the amount of any distributions that are excluded from income under this rule. Information Reporting. Under certain circumstances, U.S. Persons owning stock in a foreign corporation are required to file IRS Form 5471 with their U.S. federal income tax returns. Generally, information reporting on IRS Form 5471 is required with respect to (i) a person who is treated as a RPII Shareholder, (ii) a 10% U.S. Shareholder of a foreign corporation that is a CFC for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during any tax year of the foreign corporation, and who owned the stock on the last of that year and (iii) under certain circumstances, a U.S. Person who acquires stock in a foreign corporation, and as a result thereof owns 10% or more of the voting power or value of such foreign corporation, whether or not such foreign corporation is a CFC. For any taxable year in which Endurance Holdings determines that gross RPII constitutes 20% or more of Endurance U.K.’s or Endurance Bermuda’s gross insurance income and the 20% Ownership Exception does not apply, Endurance Holdings intends to mail to all U.S. Persons registered as holders of its ordinary shares and Series A Preferred Shares IRS Form 5471, completed with information from Endurance Holdings, for attachment to the U.S. federal income tax returns of such shareholders. A tax-exempt organization that is treated as a 10% U.S. Shareholder or a RPII Shareholder also must file IRS Form 5471 in the circumstances described above. Failure to file IRS Form 5471 may result in penalties. 55 Tax-Exempt Shareholders. Tax-exempt entities will be required to treat certain subpart F insurance income, including RPII, that is includible in income by the tax-exempt entity as unrelated business taxable income. Dispositions of Ordinary Shares and Series A Preferred Shares. Subject to the discussion below relating to the redemption of Series A Preferred Shares or the potential application of Code section 1248 or the “PFIC” rules, any gain or loss realized by a U.S. Person on the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares will be subject to U.S. federal income taxation as capital gain or loss in an amount equal to the difference between the amount realized upon such sale or exchange and such person’s tax basis in the shares. If the holding period for these shares exceeds one year at the time of the disposition, any gain will be subject to tax at a current maximum marginal tax rate of 15% for individuals and 35% for corporations. Moreover, gain, if any, generally will be U.S. source gain and generally will constitute “passive income” for foreign tax credit limitation purposes. Code section 1248 provides that if a U.S. Person sells or exchanges stock in a foreign corporation and such person owned directly, indirectly through certain foreign entities or constructively 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation at any time during the five-year period ending on the date of disposition when the corporation was a CFC, any gain from the sale or exchange of the shares will be treated as ordinary income to the extent of the CFC’s earnings and profits (determined under U.S. federal income tax principles) during the period that the shareholder held the shares and while the corporation was a CFC (with certain adjustments). A 10% U.S. Shareholder may in certain circumstances be required to report a disposition of shares of a CFC by attaching IRS Form 5471 to the U.S. federal income tax or information return that it would normally file for the taxable year in which the disposition occurs. For these purposes, the Series A Preferred Shares should not be considered as having voting power unless and until there exists a Nonpayment Event which triggers the Series A Preferred Shareholders’ right to elect two additional directors to the Board of Directors of Endurance Holdings. In such case, the Series A Preferred Shares should be treated as voting stock for as long as such right continues. Section 1248 also applies to the sale or exchange of shares in a foreign corporation if the foreign corporation would be treated as a CFC for RPII purposes and would be taxed as an insurance company if it were a domestic corporation, regardless of whether the shareholder is a 10% U.S. Shareholder or whether the 20% Gross Income Exception or the 20% Ownership Exception applies. Regulations do not specifically address whether or how Code section 1248 would apply to dispositions of shares of stock in a foreign corporation that is not a CFC and does not directly engage in the insurance business, but has a subsidiary that is a CFC and that would be taxed as an insurance company if it were a domestic corporation. The Company believes, however, that the application of Code section 1248 under the RPII rules should not apply to the disposition of ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares because Endurance Holdings is not directly engaged in the insurance business. There can be no assurance, however, that the IRS will not interpret the regulations in a contrary manner or that the U.S. Treasury Department will not amend the regulations to provide that these rules will apply to dispositions of our ordinary shares and Series A Preferred Shares. Prospective investors should consult their tax advisors regarding the effects of these rules on a disposition of our shares. Uncertainty as to Application of RPII. Regulations interpreting the RPII provisions of the Code exist only in proposed form. It is not certain whether these regulations will be adopted in their proposed form or what changes might ultimately be made or whether any such changes, as well as any interpretation or application of the RPII rules by the IRS, the courts or otherwise, might have retroactive effect. Accordingly, the meaning of the RPII provisions and their application to Endurance U.K. and Endurance Bermuda is uncertain. These provisions include the grant of authority to the U.S. Treasury to prescribe “such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this subsection, including regulations preventing the avoidance of this subsection through cross insurance arrangements or otherwise.” In addition, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge any determinations by Endurance U.K. or Endurance Bermuda as to the amount, if any, of RPII that should be includible in income or that the amounts of the RPII inclusions will not be subject to adjustment based upon subsequent IRS examination. Prospective investors should consult their tax advisors as to the effects of these uncertainties. Redemption of Series A Preferred Shares. Subject to the discussion herein relating to the application of the RPII and PFIC rules, under Section 302 of the Code, a redemption of the Series A Preferred Shares will be treated as a dividend to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, unless such redemption satisfies the tests set forth under Section 302(b) of the Code, which would treat the redemption as a sale or exchange subject to taxation as described above under “Dispositions of Ordinary Shares and Series A Preferred Shares.” A redemption will be treated as a sale or exchange if: (i) it is “substantially disproportionate,” (ii) constitutes a “complete termination of the holder’s stock interest” in us, or (iii) is “not essentially equivalent to a dividend”, each within the meaning of Section 302(b) of the Code. In determining whether any of these tests are satisfied, shares considered to be owned by a U.S. Person by reason of certain constructive ownership rules set forth in the Code, as well as shares actually owned, must generally be taken into account. Because the determination as to whether any of the alternative tests of Section 302(b) of the Code is satisfied with respect to a particular holder of the Series A Preferred Shares will depend on the facts and circumstances as of the time the determination is made, U.S. shareholders should consult their tax advisors, at such time, to determine their tax treatment in light of their particular circumstances. 56 Passive Foreign Investment Companies. In general, a foreign corporation will be a PFIC during a given year if (i) 75% or more of its gross income constitutes “passive income” or (ii) 50% or more of its assets produce passive income. If Endurance Holdings were characterized as a PFIC during a given year, U.S. Persons owning ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares would be subject to a penalty tax at the time of the sale at a gain of, or receipt of an “excess distribution” with respect to, their shares, unless such shareholders made a “qualified electing fund election” or “mark-to-market” election. It is uncertain that Endurance Holdings would be able to provide its shareholders with the information necessary for a U.S. Person to make the elections. In general, a shareholder receives an “excess distribution” if the amount of the distribution is more than 125% of the average distribution with respect to the shares during the three preceding taxable years (or shorter period during which the taxpayer held the shares). In general, the penalty tax is equivalent to an interest charge on taxes that are deemed due during the period the shareholder owned the shares, computed by assuming that the excess distribution or gain (in the case of a sale) with respect to the shares was taxed in equal portions at the highest applicable tax rate on ordinary income throughout the shareholder’s period of ownership. The interest charge is equal to the applicable rate imposed on underpayments of U.S. federal income tax for such period. For the above purposes, passive income generally includes interest, dividends, annuities and other investment income. The PFIC statutory provisions, however, contain an express exception for income derived in the active conduct of an insurance business by a corporation which is predominantly engaged in an insurance business. This exception is intended to ensure that income derived by a bona fide insurance company is not treated as passive income, except to the extent such income is attributable to financial reserves in excess of the reasonable needs of the insurance business. Endurance Holdings expects for purposes of the PFIC rules that each of Endurance U.K. and Endurance Bermuda will be predominantly engaged in an insurance business and is unlikely to have financial reserves in excess of the reasonable needs of its insurance business. Accordingly, neither expects to be treated as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. There can be no assurances, however, that this will be the case. The PFIC statutory provisions contain a look-through rule stating that, for purposes of determining whether a foreign corporation is a PFIC, such foreign corporation shall be treated as if it received “directly its proportionate share of the income . . .” and as if it “held its proportionate share of the assets . . .” of any other corporation in which it owns at least 25% by value of the shares. While no explicit guidance is provided by the statutory language, under this look-through rule Endurance Holdings should be deemed to own the assets and to have received the income of its insurance subsidiaries directly for purposes of determining whether it qualifies for the insurance exception. Consequently, Endurance Holdings does not expect to be treated as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This interpretation of the look-through rule is consistent with the legislative intention generally to exclude bona fide insurance companies from the application of PFIC provision. There can be no assurance, however, that the IRS will not challenge this position or that a court will not sustain such challenge. Prospective investors should consult their tax advisor as to the effects of the PFIC rules. Other. Except as discussed below with respect to backup withholding, dividends paid by Endurance Holdings will not be subject to U.S. withholding tax. Information Reporting and Backup Withholding. Information returns may be filed with the IRS in connection with payments of dividends with respect to our ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares and the proceeds from a sale or other disposition of the shares unless the shareholder establishes an exemption from the information reporting rules. A U.S. Person holding our ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares that does not establish such an exemption may be subject to U.S. backup withholding tax on these payments if the holder fails to provide its taxpayer identification number or otherwise comply with the backup withholding rules. The amount of any backup withholding from a payment to a U.S. Person will be allowed as a credit against the U.S. Person’s U.S. federal income tax liability and may entitle such person to a refund, provided that the required information is furnished to the IRS. Shareholders Who Are Non-U.S. Persons Dividends and Disposition. In general (and subject to the discussion below under “Information Reporting and Backup Withholding”), a Non-U.S. Person will not be subject to U.S. federal income or withholding tax with respect to payments of dividends on, or gain upon the disposition of, our ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares unless (i) the dividends or gain is effectively connected with the conduct by the Non-U.S. Person of a trade or business in the United States or (ii) in the case of gain upon the disposition of shares, the Non-U.S. Person is an individual who is present in the United States for 183 days or more in the taxable year and certain other conditions are met. Nonresident alien individuals will not be subject to U.S. estate tax with respect to our ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares. 57 Dividends or gain that is effectively connected with the conduct by a Non-U.S. Person of a trade or business in the United States generally will be subject to regular U.S. federal income tax in the same manner as if it were realized by a U.S. Person. In addition, if such Non-US. Person is a non-US. corporation, such dividends or gain may be subject to a branch profits tax at a rate of 30% (or such lower rate as is provided by an applicable income tax treaty). Information Reporting and Backup Withholding. If our ordinary shares or Series A Preferred Shares are held by a Non-U.S. Person through a non-U.S. (and non-U.S. related) broker or financial institution, information reporting and backup withholding generally would not be required. Information reporting, and possibly backup withholding, may apply if the shares are held by a Non-U.S. Person through a U.S. (or U.S. related) broker or financial institution and the Non-U.S. Person fails to provide appropriate information. Non-U.S. Persons should consult their tax advisors concerning the application of the information reporting and backup withholding rules. AVAILABLE INFORMATION General information about us, including our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and the charters for the Audit, Compensation, Investment, Nominating and Corporate Governance and Underwriting Committees of our Board of Directors, can be found at www.endurance.bm. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments and exhibits to those reports, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with, or furnish them to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Any of the above referenced documents can also be obtained in print, free of charge, by contacting the Secretary at Endurance Specialty Holdings Ltd., Wellesley House, 90 Pitts Bay Road, Pembroke HM08, Bermuda. Information on our website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K or our other securities filings and is not a part of these filings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company had no outstanding, unresolved comments from the SEC staff at December 31, 2008. 