ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company confronts. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to it or that it currently deems immaterial also may impair the Company’s business operations and the implementation of the Plan. If any of the following risks actually occurs, the Company’s business, financial condition, operating results and the implementation of the Plan could be materially adversely affected. 6 Table of Contents Uncertainties Inherent in the CDR Liability Calculation The CDR liability is management’s estimate of the amount of the net equity of the Company to be shared by holders of CDRs at the sharing percentage of 37%. The formula used to calculate the net equity of the Company includes variables (e.g., future operating costs and expenses, estimated future interest income, actual asset values realized, etc.) which are not under the control of the Company. Such variables are inherently uncertain due to the impact of influences such as time, inflation or deflation, interest rate changes, third party credit risks, domestic events, court or tax rulings contrary to the Company’s expectations, timing and amounts of distributions to C-4 creditors by the Litigation Trust, and matters that could impact the timing on the wind down of the Company. Changes in the fair value of investments or recoveries greater than book value are not reflected in the CDR liability until the sale is realized. Impact of Recoveries by Litigation Trust on the Company’s Obligation to Make Payments in Respect of Contingent Distribution Rights As the present value of distributions to certain C-4 creditors has reached the 100% threshold level of percentage recovery established pursuant to the Plan, holders of CDRs are entitled to receive payments from the Company equal to 37% of each dollar available to be distributed to Comdisco C-4 creditors in accordance with the Plan. All payments by the Company in respect of CDRs are made from the Company’s available cash-on-hand and not from funds distributed by the Litigation Trust. The Company expects to maintain cash reserves sufficient to make any required payments pursuant to its CDR liability arising from either the Company’s equity or net distributions from the Litigation Trust. Any actual net distributions by the Litigation Trust to the C-4 creditors will increase the Company’s liability to CDR holders. However, estimates of such net distributions are currently not determinable. Final Tax Clearances The ability of the Company to effectuate timely assessments and receive final tax clearances from the applicable state and federal taxing authorities to allow for the closure of the bankruptcy estate. Uncertainties Inherent in the Determination of Fair Market Value of the Remaining Portfolio of Equity Investments (the “Equity Investments”) The determination of the fair value of the remaining portfolio of the Company is management’s estimate of such fair value at a moment in time based on information available to management at that time. The estimate of fair value is inherently uncertain due to external factors that could impact the value of assets remaining in the portfolio. Some of the external factors include time, inflation and deflation, changes in interest rates, third party credit risks, domestic events, court or tax rulings contrary to the Company’s expectations and liquidation events in the equity portfolio. Market Conditions Have Made It Difficult and May Continue to Make it Difficult for the Company To Timely Realize the Value of its Equity Investments Market conditions have adversely affected, and could adversely affect in the future, the opportunities for the acquisition/merger of the Internet-related, communications and other high technology and emerging growth companies that make up the substantial majority of the Company’s Equity Investments. Additionally, the public market for high technology and other emerging growth companies is extremely volatile. Such volatility has adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, the ability of the Company to realize value from its Equity Investments. Exacerbating these conditions is the fact that some of the Equity Investments held by the Company may be subject to lockup agreements restricting its ability to sell until several months after an initial public offering. Without an available liquidity event, the Company may be unable to sell its Equity Investments. As a result, the Company, or Windspeed, a professional investment management group which the Company engaged to manage the Company’s Equity Investments on an ongoing basis in February 2004, on behalf of the Company, may not be able to generate gains or receive proceeds from the sale of Equity Investments and the Company’s business and financial results may suffer. Additionally, liquidation preferences may continue to be offered by companies in the Company’s portfolio to parties willing to lend to such companies. The liquidation preferences have had, and could continue to have, an adverse impact on the value of the Company’s Equity Investments. For those Equity 7 Table of Contents Investments without a public trading market, the realizable value of the Company’s Equity Investments could prove to be lower than the carrying value currently reflected in the financial statements. The estimated fair market value of the Company’s Equity Investments was determined in consultation with Windspeed based on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, quoted trading levels for publicly-traded securities, merger documents, last round valuation for privately held securities, industry and company multiples, industry acceptance in the market place, liquidity discounts due to lock ups and escrows, estimated revenue, and customer, product and market share growth by the respective companies in the portfolio. Substantially all of these factors are outside the control of the Company and are subject to significant volatility. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to realize the estimated fair market value. Furthermore, as of September 30, 2014, the total portfolio of three companies, which had an estimated gross fair market value of approximately $20,379,000, will be reduced by expected Management Sharing of approximately $2,965,000. Approximately 96% of such value was in one individual company, Ebates. Subsequent to September 30, 2014, cash was received at an amount equal to such fair value of Ebates, less a fair market value amount of approximately $1,911,000 which will be held in escrow until January 2016. The actual amount to be distributed from the escrow may be impacted by provisions of, and claims asserted against, the escrow. The Payment of Dividends and Distributions All funds generated from the Company’s remaining asset portfolios are required by the Plan to be used to satisfy liabilities of the Company and, to the extent funds are available, to pay dividends on the Company’s Common Stock and to make distributions with respect to the CDRs in the manner and priorities set forth in the Plan. Because of the composition and nature of its asset portfolios, the Company expects to generate funds from the sale or run-off of its asset portfolios at a decreasing rate over time. The Company has material restrictions on its ability, and does not expect or intend, to make any significant investments in new or additional assets. Accordingly, the amount of funds potentially available to pay dividends on the Company’s Common Stock and to make distributions with respect to the CDRs is limited to the funds in excess of the Company’s liabilities that may be generated from the remaining asset portfolios. Uncertainties in Collections and Recoveries The Company believes that its collections and recoveries on accounts previously written off could provide future but diminishing cash flows. The amount and timing of such collections and recoveries are dependent upon many factors including any offsets or counterclaims that may be asserted against the Company and the ability of a former lessee or debtor or its respective estate to pay the claim or any portion thereof. Some of these factors are beyond the control of the Company. Uncertainties Relating to the Bankruptcy Plan and the Limited Business Plan The Company has incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs associated with the administration of the estate of Comdisco, Inc. and in completing the wind down of operations. The amount of these costs, which are being expensed as incurred, are expected to have a significant adverse affect on the results of operations and on the Company’s cash position. The Company’s post-bankruptcy operations are limited to an orderly run-off or sale of its remaining assets. Pursuant to the Plan and restrictions contained in its Certificate, the Company is specifically prohibited from engaging in any business activities inconsistent with its limited business plan. This business plan is based on numerous assumptions including the anticipated future performance of the Company in running off its operations, the time frame for the run-off, general business and economic conditions, and other matters, many of which are beyond the control of the Company and some of which may not materialize. As a result, the Company’s ability to effectively complete this business plan is inherently uncertain. In addition, unanticipated events and circumstances occurring subsequent to the date of this Annual Report may affect the actual financial results of the Company’s operations. The Company’s Liquidity is Dependent on Cash on Hand The Company’s liquidity generally depends on cash on hand. 8 Table of Contents Limited Public Market for Common Stock There is currently a limited public market for the Company’s Common Stock. Holders of the Company’s Common Stock may, therefore, have difficulty selling their Common Stock, should they decide to do so. In addition, there can be no assurances that such markets will continue or that any shares of Common Stock which may be purchased could be sold without incurring a loss. Any such market price of the Common Stock may not necessarily bear any relationship to the Company’s book value, assets, past operating results, financial condition or any other established criteria of value, and may not be indicative of the market price for the Common Stock in the future. Further, the market price of the Common Stock may be volatile depending on a number of factors, including the status of the Company’s business performance, its limited business purpose, industry dynamics, news announcements or changes in general economic conditions. Limited Public Market for Contingent Distribution Rights There is currently a limited public market for the Company’s CDRs. Holders of the Company’s CDRs may, therefore, have difficulty selling their CDRs, should they decide to do so. In addition, there can be no assurances that such markets will continue or that any CDRs which may be purchased could be sold without incurring a loss. Any such market price of the CDRs may not necessarily bear any relationship to the Company’s book value, assets, past operating results, financial condition or any other established criteria of value, and may not be indicative of the market price for the CDRs in the future. Further, the market price of the CDRs may be volatile depending on a number of factors, including the status of the Company’s business performance, industry dynamics, news announcements or changes in general economic conditions. Uncertainties Relating to the Wind Down of Operations The Company has reduced the size and complexity of its organizational and systems infrastructure concurrently with the monetization of its assets. The success of the Company’s continuing wind down of operations and implementation of the Order entered by the Bankruptcy court authorizing the organizational systems infrastructure wind down is dependent upon the ability of the Company to effectively consolidate its management structure and maintain its operations with limited personnel. Impact of Interest Rates Changes in interest rates could impact the value of certain of the Company’s assets. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 