D. Risk Factors You should consider each of the following factors as well as other information in and incorporated into this Annual Report in evaluating the Corporation’s business and its prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Corporation faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Corporation or that the Corporation currently considers immaterial may also impair the Corporation’s business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Corporation’s business and financial results could be harmed and the trading price of the Corporation’s common stock could decline. You should also refer to the other information set forth in and incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 20-F, including the Corporation’s consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Risks Related to the Corporation’s Business The Corporation has limited or no experience in marketing products. If the Corporation cannot successfully market and cause acceptance of its products, the Corporation will be unable to execute its business plan. The Corporation has limited or no experience in marketing its products and has developed a strategy to out-license the marketing to one or more partners, such as major diagnostic or pharmaceutical companies. On December 28, 2006, the exclusive marketing and distribution rights to PREVU* reverted back to the Corporation as a result of McNeil Consumer Healthcare’s (“McNeil”) termination of their agreements with the Corporation. As a result, the Corporation plans to market some of its products directly and to continue to develop partnerships. The Corporation may not be able to market its own products and if the Corporation relies on third parties to market its products, the commercial success of such products may be outside of its control. Moreover, there can be no assurance that providers, payers or patients will accept the Corporation’s products, even if they prove to be safe and effective and are allowed for marketing by the HPB, the FDA and other regulatory authorities. The Corporation’s ability to achieve significant market share for each of its products could be affected by reimbursement difficulties with government agencies and third-party insurers, which could hamper the speed with which the Corporation’s products are adopted by the medical community and by the public. Market penetration of the Corporation’s products will be influenced by factors including the cost-effectiveness and the overall economic benefits that they offer. 3 If the Corporation is unable to generate significant revenues and become profitable in the near future, its business could fail. To date, the Corporation has not generated significant ongoing revenues to offset its research and development costs and operating costs and accordingly has not made an operating profit. The Corporation has historically benefited from the inclusion of Canadian federal and provincial refundable scientific investment tax credits (“ITCs”) in its annual operating results. To date, the Corporation has received $2,075,000 in ITCs. ITCs are tax credits that the Corporation receives from the Canadian federal and provincial governments as a result of conducting applied scientific research in Canada. There can be no assurance that ITCs will continue to be available to the Corporation or, if so, at what levels. In May 2004, the Corporation licensed the worldwide marketing and distribution rights for its skin cholesterol tests to McNeil. In 2006, the Corporation recorded $7,000 in sales of PREVU* to McNeil prior to the termination of the agreement on December 28, 2006. Although the Corporation anticipates finding new marketing partners for the PREVU* product line in 2007, there is no assurance that sales and license revenues from such agreements will be sufficient to generate a profit for the Corporation in the near future. The Corporation’s success depends in part on obtaining and maintaining meaningful patent protection on our products and technologies. The Corporation may not have sufficient protection for its intellectual property through its current portfolio of patents. The protection offered by the Corporation’s patents and patent applications may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by our competitors, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain or maintain patent protection for our products or product candidates. In addition, the Corporation’s petition to reinstate two of its U.S. patents was denied by the U.S. PTO and, accordingly, we could face additional competition from companies seeking to exploit the intellectual property that was previously covered by these patents. In August 2004, the Corporation learned that two of its U.S. patents had been listed as abandoned by the United States Patent and Trademark Office (“U.S. PTO”) for failure to pay maintenance fees. The failure to pay these maintenance fees occurred when the files were transferred between U.S. and Canadian patent agents. The Corporation filed a petition for reinstatement of the patents. In response to this petition, in February 2005 the U.S. PTO identified specific items that the Corporation should address, specifically regarding the credentials and procedures of the Corporation’s patent agents and their performance of clerical functions related to the payment of the maintenance fees. In June 2005, the Corporation filed a request for consideration. On December 23, 2005, the U.S. PTO notified the Corporation of its decision not to reinstate the two patents. In February 2006, the Corporation filed a request for reconsideration with the U.S. PTO which was subsequently denied. The Corporation has authorized legal action against the law firm that was responsible for managing its patent portfolio at the time when the maintenance fees for the two patents in question should have been paid. The U.S. PTO found that the patents lapsed as a result of the law firm’s failure to use its established docketing procedures regarding payment of the maintenance fees. No resolution has been reached regarding this maintenance fees error and even if there is a resolution, there is no assurance that the Corporation will benefit from any resolution that may occur. The two patents in question are in force in all other jurisdictions. In the U.S., the Corporation has an additional two patents in force covering other aspects of the technology as well as two patents pending. Although management believes that it would be difficult for a competitor to develop a similar product, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop a similar product. The Corporation may be required to obtain licenses under patents or other proprietary rights of third parties. No assurance can be given that any licenses required under any such patents or proprietary rights will be available on terms acceptable to the Corporation or that such licenses will be available at all. 4 If the Corporation does not obtain such licenses, it could encounter delays in introducing one or more of its products to the market while it attempts to design around such patents, if the Corporation is unable to design around such patents it could find that the development, manufacture or sale of products requiring such licenses may be foreclosed. In addition, the Corporation could incur substantial costs in defending itself in suits brought against it on such patents or in suits in which the Corporation attempts to enforce its own patents against other parties. Furthermore, the Corporation could be liable for damages or an accounting of profits if it were unsuccessful in defending itself in a suit for infringement of a patent. Subsequent to the year end, on January 5, 2007, the Corporation settled litigation relating to the ColorectAlert™ License Agreements. Under the terms of the settlement with Dr. Shamsuddin and Med-11 AG, the Corporation agreed to pay $175,000 to Med-11 AG ("Med-11") and amended the agreements to replace Dr. Shamsuddin with Med-11 as the licensor. The amendment also reduced the royalty payable by the Corporation from 10% to 7.5% on its revenues from products utilizing the patents and eliminated all future milestone payments that the Corporation may have been required to pay under the initial agreements. There is no assurance that litigation similar to this will not arise from time to time, thereby distracting management and causing the Corporation to incur costs and time on items not related to the Corporation’s business plan. The Corporation relies on third parties to manufacture some of its products and any delay, volume constraints, or mistakes on the part of such manufacturers could result in cancelled orders and a loss of revenues for the Corporation. The Corporation relies on third parties to manufacture and formulate some of its products for clinical trials and for eventual commercial sale. Currently, the Corporation’s skin cholesterol products are manufactured by Diagnostic Chemicals Limited (“DCL”), Southmedic Inc. and Jabil Circuit, Inc., while X-Rite, Inc. supplied the corded color measurement instrument used in connection with the tests. While the history is limited, to date, the Corporation has not experienced any material problems, such as disruptions of supply, with these manufacturers. The Corporation’s other products, relating to its cancer technologies, are all manufactured (for clinical trial purposes) by the Corporation itself in its laboratory located at McMaster University. The ability to ensure a continued supply of products on a timely basis is not entirely within the Corporation’s control. If the Corporation cannot obtain materials in a timely fashion, the progress of its clinical trials and product sales will be negatively affected. If the Corporation cannot obtain additional financing required to support business growth, it will be unable to fund its continuing operations in the future. Management believes that, based on historic cash expenditures and the current expectation of further revenues from product sales and/or royalties, the Corporation’s existing cash resources together with the investment tax credits (“ITCs”) receivable of $200,000 will be sufficient to meet its current operating and capital requirements through at least 2008. However, the Corporation’s future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including revenue from the successful commercial launch of its products, continued progress in diagnostic development programs, pre-clinical and clinical evaluation, time and expense associated with regulatory filings, prosecuting and enforcing its patent claims, and costs associated with obtaining regulatory approvals. If additional financing is required, the Corporation will consider out-licensing its products under collaborative research and development arrangements, and additional public or private financing (including the issuance of additional equity securities) to fund all or a part of particular programs. There can be no assurance that additional funding will be available or, if available, that it will be available on acceptable terms. If such funding is not available, the Corporation may be forced to reduce or eliminate expenditures relating to specific programs relating to the development, testing, production or marketing of its proposed products, or may have to obtain funds through arrangements with corporate partners that require the Corporation to relinquish rights to certain of its technologies or products. The Corporation may not be able to raise additional capital if its capital resources are exhausted. 5 The Corporation faces potential risks of product liability which may divert funding from ongoing operations and harm operating results. The sale and use of products under development by the Corporation entails risk of product liability. The Corporation has also agreed to indemnify numerous clinical trial sites, including The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, St. Michael’s Hospital, St. Paul’s Hospital, St. Joseph’s Hospital, The Hamilton General Hospital, University of California, University Health Network (Princess Margaret Hospital), Hamilton Health Sciences Corporation, University of Wisconsin Medical School, Johns Hopkins University Medical Center, and AtheroGenics, Inc. (as well as under the previous agreements with McNeil) under their respective clinical trial and/or marketing agreements for such liability. The Corporation maintains product liability insurance relating to the clinical trials that it conducts on its technologies, and believes that such insurance would be reasonably adequate to cover any torts claims that may arise against the Corporation at present. Upon commercialization of its products, the Corporation will expand its insurance coverage to include the commercial sale of the Corporation’s products in the relevant territories. In addition, the Corporation maintains property, commercial general liability and tenant’s legal liability insurance. As the Corporation expands, there can be no assurance that it will be able to obtain appropriate levels of product liability insurance prior to any use of its products in clinical trials or for commercial sale. An inability to maintain insurance on economically feasible terms or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could inhibit or prevent the commercialization of products developed by the Corporation. The obligation to pay any product liability claim, or finance the costs of a recall of a product, could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and future prospects of the Corporation. If the Corporation is unable to acquire future technology necessary for its products, it may be unable to commercialize new products. The Corporation’s business depends on its ability to identify or negotiate the acquisition of or licenses for future technologies. For example, the Corporation’s cancer technologies are the subject of licenses to use the technologies. The Corporation may not be able to continue to successfully identify, acquire or license technologies in the future to add to its pipeline of products. The loss of any key employee could impair the Corporation’s ability to execute its business plan. The Corporation’s ability to develop products will depend, to a great extent, on its ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense. The Corporation is highly dependent on the principal members of its management and scientific staff and the loss of their services might impede the development objectives. The persons working with the Corporation are affected by a number of influences outside of the control of the Corporation. The loss of key employees may affect the speed and success of product development. To date, the Corporation has not experienced high rates of employee turnover. As an example, the Corporation’s President and Chief Executive Officer, Executive Vice President of Clinical and Regulatory Affairs, Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer, and Vice-President, Corporate Development, have been employed by the Corporation for 14, 10, nine and seven years, respectively. While the Corporation believes that it has been successful to date in employee retention, the Corporation may not be able to continue to attract and keep key employees. The Corporation is exposed to financial market risks such as interest rates and foreign exchange fluctuations. The Corporation is exposed to market risk related to changes in interest and foreign currency exchange rates, each of which could adversely affect the value of our current assets and liabilities. Its cash is invested in short-term, high-grade securities with varying maturities. Since the Corporation’s intention is to hold these securities to maturity, adverse changes in interest rates would not have a material effect on the Corporation’s results of operations. 6 The Corporation also makes commitments with foreign suppliers for clinical trials and other services. Adverse changes in foreign exchange rates could increase the costs of these services. Changes in foreign exchange could also affect our ability to repay the convertible debentures since they are repayable in U.S. dollars on maturity in August 2009. Investors may encounter difficulties in enforcing civil liabilities against the Corporation in the United States. The Corporation is a Canadian corporation and a subsidiary, PreMD International Inc. (Switzerland), is a Swiss corporation. Substantially all of the assets of the Corporation or its subsidiaries are located in either Canada or in Switzerland and similarly, all of the executive officers, a majority of the directors of the Corporation and a majority of the experts named in this Annual Report also reside in Canada. As a result, it may be difficult for an investor to effect service of process within the United States upon the Corporation or its subsidiary, or upon such directors, executive officers and experts. Execution by U.S. courts of any judgment obtained against the Corporation, its subsidiary, or its directors or executive officers or the experts named in this Annual Report in U.S. courts would be limited to the assets of the Corporation or of such persons, as the case may be, in the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability in Canada or in Switzerland of U.S. judgments or liabilities in original actions in Canadian or Swiss courts predicated solely upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. Risks Related to the Corporation’s Industry Intense competition in the diagnostics industry may harm the Corporation’s ability to license and develop its products. Technological competition in the diagnostics industry is intense. The Corporation competes with other companies to license and develop products aimed at diagnosing similar conditions. Many of these companies have substantially greater resources than the Corporation. The Corporation may not be able to continue to license the technology that it needs to stay competitive. Further, technological developments by others may render the Corporation’s products or technologies non-competitive. See “Business Overview - Coronary Artery Disease Risk Assessment”, “Business Overview - Colorectal Cancer Tests”, “Business Overview - Lung Cancer Test”, “Business Overview - Breast Cancer Test”, “Business Overview - Competition” and “Business Overview - Patent and Proprietary Protection”. Any inability by the Corporation to develop its products and comply with government regulations may hinder or prevent the development and sale of the Corporation’s products. Prospects for emerging companies in the human diagnostics industry generally may be regarded as uncertain given the inherent nature of the industry and, accordingly, investments in such companies should be regarded as speculative. To achieve profitable operations, the Corporation, alone or with others, must successfully develop, introduce, secure regulatory clearance for, and market its products. As at the date hereof, only PREVU* POC has received regulatory clearance from the FDA and HPB and is CE marked in Europe. Securing regulatory clearances for the marketing of diagnostics products from the HPB in Canada and the FDA in the U.S. can be a long and expensive process, which can delay product development. In this regard, the Corporation has identified a U.S.-based regulatory affairs consultant to advise the Corporation on its regulatory applications. In order to obtain regulatory approval for a particular product, human clinical trials conducted by the Corporation must demonstrate that the product is safe for human use and shows efficacy. Unsatisfactory results obtained from a particular study relating to a program may cause the Corporation to abandon its commitment to that program. No assurances can be provided that any future human trials, if undertaken, will yield favorable results or that regulatory approval will be granted at all. In addition, if the Corporation obtains regulatory approval for a product it may only be for limited applications, thereby hindering the Corporation’s ability to widely market a product. Such events would have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s sales and profitability. 7 The Corporation may not be able to obtain reimbursement for its products as governments attempt to control rising healthcare costs. Reimbursement for new products has come under scrutiny in an effort to control rising health care costs. In addition to research into a product’s safety and efficacy, research must also be carried out to demonstrate cost-effectiveness for reimbursement purposes. This information is required for either government (Canada or E.U.) or third-party insurer purposes (U.S.). Failure to achieve enlistment in reimbursement schedules can have a dramatic impact on a product’s market penetration in the professional or laboratory market. Recent policy initiatives in both the U.S. and Canada have advocated broader screening for the risk of cardiovascular disease and cancer. As a result, medical devices for screening and/or risk assessment for these types of disease may face an increased market potential. The Corporation may need to develop economic studies to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of its products in identifying the risk of disease at an earlier stage. Risks Related to the Corporation’s Common Stock The Corporation’s performance and general market volatility may cause the price of the common shares to decrease. The volatility of the Corporation’s share price may affect the trading market for the Corporation’s common shares. There can be no assurance that an active trading market for the common shares will be sustained. Our share price could fluctuate significantly in the future for a number of reasons, including, among others, future announcements concerning the Corporation, quarterly variations in operating results, the introduction of competitive products, reports of results of clinical trials, regulatory developments, and intellectual property developments. In addition, stock markets, in general, and the market for shares of biotechnology and life science companies, in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years that may be unrelated to the operating performance or prospects of the affected companies. These broad market fluctuations may affect the market price of the Corporation’s common shares. The common shares are speculative securities. If the Corporation performs poorly in the marketing, manufacturing or sales of its products or in other areas of its business as highlighted in this section, it may cause the market price of the common shares to decline. In addition, there can be no assurance that an active trading market for the common shares will be sustained or that the trading price of the common shares will not be subject to significant fluctuations. Accordingly, an investment should be considered only by those investors who are able to make a long-term investment and can afford to suffer a total loss of their investment in the common shares. An investor should consider the merits of an investment in the common shares and should consult professional advisers to assess income tax, legal and other aspects of such an investment. The Corporation does not currently meet, and may not be able to regain compliance with, the continued listing standards of the American Stock Exchange (the “AMEX”). Being delisted from the AMEX could have an impact on the Corporation’s ability to conduct a financing... The Corporation was notified in April 2007 that it was below certain of the AMEX's continuing listing standards. PreMD does not meet the AMEX requirements of Sections 1003 (a)(i) of the AMEX Company Guide for the Corporation’s failure in regards to shareholders' equity of less than US $2,000,000 and losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in two out of its three most recent fiscal years; section 1003(a)(ii) of the Company Guide with shareholders' equity of less than US $4,000,000 and losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in three out of its four most recent fiscal years; and section 8 1003(a)(iii) of the Company Guide with shareholders' equity of less than US $6,000,000 and losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in its five most recent fiscal years. The Corporation submitted a plan for regaining compliance with the AMEX continued listing standards on May 18, 2007. The Corporation received notice on June 15, 2007 that the AMEX had accepted its plan to regain compliance with the continued listing standards, and that the Corporation’s listing will be continued pursuant to an extension. The Corporation will be subject to periodic review by the AMEX Staff during the extension period, which ends on October 24, 2008. Failure to make progress consistent with the plan or to regain compliance with the continued listing standards by the end of the extension period could result in the Corporation being delisted from the AMEX. PreMD’s continued listing is contingent on its continuation to provide the AMEX Staff with updates in conjunction with the initiatives of its plan, as appropriate or upon request, but no later than at each quarter completion concurrent with the Corporation’s appropriate filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, the AMEX Staff will review PreMD periodically for compliance with its plan and progress consistent with its plan. The Corporation does not anticipate paying dividends on its common shares, which may affect investors who require a certain amount of liquidity on their investment. The Corporation does not intend to pay dividends on its common shares in the foreseeable future, and thus the only return on an investment in the common shares will come from an increase, if any, in the price of the common shares. Investors who require dividend income should not depend on or expect to receive dividends on the common shares. ITEM 