ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, which we believe are the material risks of our business. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in our SEC filings, including our financial statements and related notes. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. We are relying upon the safe harbor for all forward-looking statements in this Report, and any such statements made by or on behalf of the Company are qualified by reference to the following cautionary statements, as well as to those set forth elsewhere in this Report. Risks Relating to the Proposed Merger Upon the consummation of the merger with CSI, our business will become subject to the numerous risks that are associated with the operation of the business of Cardiovascular Systems. Upon the consummation of the merger with CSI, which we refer to as the merger, we will become subject to the numerous risks associated with the operation of Cardiovascular Systems, Inc.’s (CSI) business. The success of our combined business following the merger will be dependent, among other things, on market acceptance of the products that are being sold by CSI and the safety and efficacy of those products, CSI’s ability to obtain sufficient financing, the successful resolution of litigation that is currently pending against CSI and the other risks associated with medical device companies in general. The merger could fail to produce the benefits that the companies anticipate, or could have other adverse effects that the companies currently do not foresee. These risks associated with CSI’s business may affect us indirectly prior to the consummation of the merger, to the extent that adverse developments regarding CSI may reduce the attractiveness of the merger or the likelihood that the merger will be consummated. As a result of these and other factors, our business, when combined with that of CSI following the consummation of the merger, may not be successful, which could cause our stock price to decline. In the event that our level of net assets at the effective time of the merger, as calculated pursuant to the merger agreement with CSI, is lower than $35 million, our stockholders will hold a smaller percentage ownership of us following the consummation of the merger than is currently anticipated and the combined company will have less working capital for future operations. Subject to the terms of the merger agreement with CSI, which we refer to as the merger agreement, at the effective time of the merger, each share of CSI common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the merger will be canceled, extinguished and automatically converted into the right to receive that number of shares of Replidyne common stock as determined pursuant to the conversion factor described in the merger agreement. The conversion factor depends on our level of net assets as of the effective time of the merger. Under the merger agreement, our net assets are defined as our total current assets minus all of our liabilities and other outstanding and future obligations as of the effective time of the merger, subject to certain adjustments. We currently anticipate that our level of net assets as of the effective time of the merger will be between $35 million and $37 million, which would result in our current stockholders, together with holders of our options and warrants, owning or having the right to acquire between 16.3% and 17.0% of the common stock of the combined company on a fully diluted basis as calculated in accordance with the merger agreement. However, if any of the following circumstances arise, our level of net assets will be lower than we expect and our stockholders would hold a smaller percentage ownership of the combined company following the consummation of the merger than is currently anticipated, thus making the merger less attractive to our stockholders: • We are unable to generate any proceeds from the sale of our REP3123 and DNA replication inhibition programs; 8 Table of Contents • We are unable to terminate, sublease or otherwise assign to a third party our remaining obligations under the lease for our headquarters in Louisville, Colorado; • We do not receive the anticipated reimbursement from Forest Laboratories for certain decontamination costs incurred by us under our former supply agreement with MEDA Manufacturing GmbH; • The costs associated with the winding up of our business are greater than anticipated; or • We expend more resources than is currently anticipated as a result of a delay in the closing of the merger or otherwise. In addition, if our net assets are lower than expected, the combined company will have less working capital for future operations, which could adversely affect the ability of the combined company to achieve our business plan. The costs associated with the merger are difficult to estimate, may be higher than expected and may harm the financial results of the combined company. We and CSI estimate that aggregate direct transaction costs of approximately $6.2 million will be incurred in connection with the merger, and additional costs associated with the commencement of CSI’s operation as a public company will also be incurred, which cannot be estimated accurately at this time. The costs associated with the merger may increase if any CSI stockholders elect to dissent from the merger and seek payment of the fair value of their shares as permitted by Minnesota law. If the total costs of the merger exceed our and CSI’s estimates, the combined company will have less working capital for future operations, which will adversely affect the ability of the combined company to achieve our business plan. Nasdaq considers the anticipated merger a reverse merger and therefore requires the combined company to submit a new listing application, which will require certain actions by the combined company and may not be successful, which would result in you having difficulty selling your shares. Nasdaq considers the merger a reverse merger and requires the combined company to submit a new listing application. Nasdaq may not approve the combined company’s new listing application. If this occurs and the merger is still consummated, our stockholders may have difficulty selling their shares. Additionally, as part of the new listing application, the combined company will be required to submit, among other things, a plan for the combined company to conduct a reverse stock split. A reverse stock split would increase the per share trading price by a yet undetermined multiple. The change in share price may affect the volatility and liquidity of the combined company’s stock, as well as the marketplace’s perception of the stock. As a result, the relative price of the combined company’s stock may decline and/or fluctuate more than in the past, and stockholders of the combined company may have trouble converting their investments in the combined company into cash effectively. The market price of our common stock has fallen significantly since the public announcement of the proposed merger. If the merger is completed, the market price of the combined company’s common stock may decline further. On November 3, 2008, the last day prior to the public announcement of the proposed merger, the closing price per share of Replidyne common stock as reported on The Nasdaq Global Market was $1.12. On February 17, 2009 the closing price per share of Replidyne common stock as reported on The Nasdaq Global Market was $0.75, which represents a 33% decrease from the closing price on November 3, 2008. This decrease may increase the risk that we would become subject to securities class action litigation, which could result in substantial costs and a delay in the completion of the merger. If the merger is completed, the market price of the combined company’s common stock may decline further for a number of reasons, including if: • the effect of the merger on the combined company’s business and prospects is not consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts; or • investors react negatively to the effect on the combined company’s business and prospects from the merger. 9 Table of Contents Because the lack of a public market for CSI’s outstanding shares makes it difficult to evaluate the fairness of the merger, CSI stockholders may receive consideration in the merger that is greater than the fair market value of the CSI shares. The outstanding capital stock of CSI is privately held and is not traded in any public market. The lack of a public market makes it extremely difficult to determine the fair market value of CSI. Since the percentage of our equity to be issued to CSI stockholders was determined based on negotiations between the parties, it is possible that the value of the Replidyne common stock to be issued in connection with the merger will be greater than the fair market value of CSI. Our executive officers and directors may have interests in the merger that are different from, or in addition to, those of our stockholders generally. Our executive officers and directors may have interests in the merger that are different from, or are in addition to, those of our stockholders generally. For example, the directors of the combined company will consist of two directors from our board and seven directors from CSI’s board. Further, certain our executive officers will receive change in control payments in connection with the merger. We and CSI may not be able to complete the merger or may elect to pursue a different strategic transaction, which may not occur on commercially reasonably terms or at all. We cannot assure you that the merger will close in a timely manner or at all. The merger agreement is subject to many closing conditions and termination rights. If we and CSI do not complete the merger, our and CSI’s boards of directors may elect to attempt to complete a different strategic transaction. Attempting to complete different strategic transactions would prove to be costly and time consuming, and we cannot make any assurances that a future strategic transaction will occur on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Failure to complete the merger could adversely affect our stock price and future business and operations. The merger is subject to the satisfaction of closing conditions, including approval by our and CSI stockholders, and we cannot assure you that the merger will be completed. In the event that the merger is not completed, we may be subject to many significant costs, including legal, accounting and advisory fees related to the merger, which must be paid even if the merger is not completed, and the payment of a termination fee and certain expenses under certain circumstances. If the merger is not completed, the market price of our common stock could decline as a result. During the pendency of the merger, we may not be able to enter into a business combination with another party because of restrictions in the merger agreement. The merger agreement restricts our ability to make acquisitions or complete other transactions. While the merger agreement is in effect, subject to limited exceptions, we are prohibited from soliciting, initiating, encouraging or taking actions designed to facilitate any inquiries or the making of any proposal or offer that could lead to such party entering into certain extraordinary transactions with any third party, such as a sale of assets, an acquisition of common stock, a tender offer for capital stock or a merger or other business combination outside the ordinary course of business. Any such transactions could be favorable to our stockholders. The merger may be completed even though material adverse changes may result from the announcement of the merger, industry-wide changes and other causes. In general, either we or CSI can refuse to complete the merger if there is a material adverse change affecting the other party between November 3, 2008, the date of the merger agreement, and the closing of the merger. However, some types of changes do not permit either party to refuse to complete the merger, even if such changes would have a material adverse effect on us or CSI. If adverse changes occur but we and CSI must still complete the merger, the combined company’s stock price may suffer. 10 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Us If the proposed merger with CSI is not consummated, our prospects will be materially and adversely affected and our stock price could decline. We and CSI are targeting a closing of the merger in the first calendar quarter of 2009. If the merger agreement is terminated and we seek another business combination, we may not be able to find a third party willing to provide equivalent or more attractive consideration than the consideration to be provided in the proposed merger with CSI. In such circumstances, our board of directors may elect to, among other things, take the steps necessary to liquidate our business and assets. In the case of a liquidation, the consideration that we might receive may be less attractive than the consideration to be received by us pursuant to the merger with CSI. We no longer have any internal capabilities to develop our product candidates. Our ability to increase stockholder value is dependent on our ability to successfully complete a strategic transaction or transactions for the sale of the company and the sale of our product development programs, which we may be unable to complete. In August 2008, we commenced restructuring our operations to reduce our employee headcount to six employees and officers by the end of October 2008. We suspended further development activities of REP3123, our investigational agent for the treatment of Clostridium difficile, or C. difficile, bacteria and C. difficile Infection, or CDI, and novel anti-infective compounds based on our DNA replication inhibition technology. Previously, we had restructured our operations in a number of actions announced in December 2007, April 2008 and June 2008 that included our decision to terminate our license with Asubio Pharma, Co., Ltd, or Asubio Pharma, for faropenem medoxomil and related contract manufacturing agreements for faropenem medoxomil, discontinue enrollment in our Phase III clinical trial of faropenem medoxomil for the treatment of acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis and reduce employee headcount. We had previously devoted substantially all of our clinical development and research and development efforts and a material portion of our financial resources toward the development of faropenem medoxomil, REP3123, our DNA replication inhibition technologies and our other product candidates. We currently have no product candidates in clinical or pre-clinical development. We have entered into an agreement with Morgan Stanley to provide financial advisory services for our strategic alternatives process. Our management has also devoted a substantial amount of time and effort to the strategic alternatives process. As a result of this process, we have entered into the merger agreement with CSI and continue to pursue the sale of our suspended REP3123 program and DNA replication inhibition technologies. Consummation of the merger with CSI is subject to numerous conditions to closing, including approval from our stockholders and the stockholders of CSI, which approval cannot be assured. Further, we cannot predict whether our REP3123 program and/or DNA replication inhibition technologies can be sold on favorable terms or at all. Completing the merger with CSI and pursuing the sale of our REP3123 program and DNA replication inhibition technologies may require us to incur substantial additional costs. If we are unable to complete the merger, our business may be liquidated. We may not be able to generate adequate proceeds or any proceeds from the sale of our REP3123 program and DNA replication inhibition technology. We are pursuing the sale of our REP3123 program and DNA replication inhibition technology. We have solicited bids through provision of bid instruction letters to numerous parties. Our former Chief Scientific Officer is acting as the representative for another company that has indicated an interest in acquiring and pursuing our REP3123 program. If we do not receive an acceptable bid for our REP3123 program or DNA replication inhibition technology, we may not be able to generate adequate proceeds or any proceeds from the sale of these programs. The failure to generate these proceeds would negatively impact the percentage of the combined company that our stockholders will hold following the merger with CSI. In particular, if our level of net assets at the effective time of the merger is lower than $35 million, our current stockholders, together with 11 Table of Contents holders of our options and warrants, will own or have the right to acquire less than 16.3% of the common stock of the combined company. We received a warning letter from the FDA for our NDA filed in December 2005 for faropenem medoxomil, our former product candidate. Failure to resolve the matters addressed in the warning letter could negatively impact our or a successor company’s ability to undertake clinical trials in the future or timely complete future IND and NDA submissions. On January 22, 2008, we received a warning letter from the Division of Scientific Investigation of the FDA, or DSI, informing us of objectionable conditions found during the DSI’s investigation of our role as applicant for our new drug application, or NDA, for faropenem medoxomil. The FDA’s observations were based on its establishment inspection reports following on site inspections in conjunction with the FDA’s review of our NDA. Specifically, DSI cited that we failed to make available the underlying raw data from the investigation for the FDA’s audit and failed to provide the FDA adequate descriptions and analyses of any other data or information relevant to the evaluation of the safety and effectiveness of faropenem medoxomil obtained or otherwise received by us from any source derived from clinical investigations. The clinical trials that supported our NDA were conducted by Bayer as a previous licensee of faropenem medoxomil. In June 2008, DSI made further inquires of us related to our previous responses to their observations in the warning letter. In July 2008, we communicated to the FDA our decision to terminate our license for faropenem medoxomil with Asubio Pharma and withdrew the NDA from consideration by the FDA. We also informed DSI of these actions. In a communication dated July 22, 2008 the FDA advised us that since we had active Investigational New Drug applications, or INDs, and ongoing clinical trials, the issues raised in the warning letter remained open. Following receipt of this communication, we withdrew all of our open INDs that related to faropenem medoxomil and REP8839. If we are unable to sufficiently establish to the FDA that future clinical trials conducted by us, or potentially a successor company, would be in accordance with FDA regulations, we may be subject to enforcement action by the FDA including being subject to the FDA’s Application Integrity Policy. This policy would require third-party validation of the integrity of the raw data underlying any of our future filings to the FDA before those filings would be accepted for consideration. Such a requirement would be onerous and require significant additional time and expense for the clinical development and potential approval of any product candidates that we may wish to develop in the future. These requirements would make it difficult for us to attempt to restart the development of any of our former product candidates or commence the development of any new product candidates in the event that the merger with CSI is not completed. Further, we could be subject to additional actions from the FDA that may negatively impact our ability or the ability of a successor company to enter into clinical trials or submit an IND or NDA in the future. We have incurred significant operating losses since inception and anticipate that we will incur continued losses for the foreseeable future. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception in December 2000. At December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $150 million. We have generated no revenue from product sales to date. We have funded our operations to date principally from the sale of our securities and payments by Forest Laboratories under our former collaboration agreement. As a result of the suspension of our clinical development of each of faropenem medoxomil, REP3123, our anti-bacterial agent addressing C. difficile bacteria and C. difficile-associated disease, and our DNA replication inhibition technology, we have no current prospects for near term revenues. We expect to continue to incur substantial additional operating losses during the period in which we seek to consummate the proposed merger and pursue the sale of certain company assets including REP3123 and DNA replication inhibition technology. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with closing the proposed merger with CSI and transactions related to the sale of our drug development programs, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or the timeline for completing potential transactions. 12 Table of Contents We may be unable to retain the senior management required to complete the merger or pursue alternative transactions. Our success in selling our remaining pipeline programs and completing the merger depends in part on our continued ability to retain and motivate qualified management and provide access to scientific personnel and on our ability to develop and analyze strategic alternatives. We are highly dependent upon our senior management, particularly Kenneth Collins, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Mark Smith, our Chief Financial Officer, and Donald Morrissey, our Senior Vice President of Corporate Development. The loss of services of any of Mr. Collins, Mr. Smith or Mr. Morrissey could delay or prevent the successful completion of the merger or our ability to complete an alternative transaction or the sale of REP3123 or our DNA replication inhibition technologies. The market price of our common stock is highly volatile. We cannot assure you that an active trading market for our common stock will exist at any time. You may not be able to sell your shares quickly or at the market price if trading in our common stock is not active. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • market reaction and other developments related to the proposed merger with CSI; • any developments related to the business of CSI, including during the pendency of the merger; • the announcement of or other developments related to a sale of part or all of our development stage assets; • failure to achieve stockholder approval of the merger with CSI; • a decision to liquidate our assets; • termination of significant agreements; • changes in laws or regulations applicable to our assets; • actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; • actual or anticipated changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to us; • conditions or trends in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • general economic and market conditions and other factors that may be unrelated to our operating performance or to the operating performance of our competitors; • changes in the market valuations of similar companies; • sales of common stock or other securities by us or our stockholders in the future; • additions or departures of key management personnel; • the outcome of litigation or arbitration claims; • developments relating to proprietary rights held by us or our competitors; • disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies; • trading volume of our common stock; 13 Table of Contents • sales of our common stock by us or our stockholders; and • any proceedings instituted by Nasdaq related to the delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq Global Market. In addition, the stock market in general and the market for biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against companies. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could materially adversely affect our prospects and financial condition. Our principal stockholders and management own a significant percentage of our stock and are able to exercise significant influence over matters subject to stockholder approval. Our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders, together with their respective affiliates, currently own a significant percentage of our voting stock, including shares subject to outstanding options and warrants, and we expect this group will continue to hold a significant percentage of our outstanding voting stock until consummation of the merger, when their ownership interests will be decreased due to the issuance of our common stock to CSI stockholders. Accordingly, these stockholders will likely be able to have a significant impact on the composition of our board of directors and continue to have significant influence over our operations and decisions until consummation of the merger. Our stockholders with approximately 48% of our outstanding common stock have entered into voting agreements and irrevocable proxies in favor of CSI for approximately 32% of our outstanding common stock, pursuant to which, among other things, each of these stockholders agreed, solely in his capacity as a stockholder, to vote these shares in favor of the issuance of the shares of our common stock in the merger and the other actions contemplated by the merger agreement. This concentration of ownership and the voting agreements could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, other than the merger with CSI, or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have a material and adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. As a publicly traded company we are subject to significant regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, some of which have only recently been adopted, and all of which are subject to change. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are the current appropriate best practices and continue to update the program in response to newly implemented or changing regulatory requirements, we cannot ensure that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. For example, we cannot assure you that in the future our management will not find a material weakness in connection with its annual review of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We also cannot assure that we could correct any such weakness to allow our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year in time to enable our independent registered public accounting firm to attest that such assessment will have been fairly stated in our annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or attest that we have maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, if and when required. If we fail to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or any other regulations we could be subject to a range of consequences, including restrictions on our ability to sell equity or otherwise raise capital funds, significant fines, enforcement or other civil or criminal actions by the Securities and Exchange Commission or delisting by the NASDAQ Global Market or other sanctions or litigation. In addition, if we disclose any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting or other consequence of failing to comply with applicable regulations, this may cause our stock price to decline. 14 Table of Contents Our recent reductions of our headcount may make it more difficult for us to maintain our internal controls over financial reporting. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 