Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Our Business and Operations We have a history of net losses and may continue to incur losses. We are not profitable and have incurred net losses in each fiscal year since our formation in 1989. In particular, we had net losses of $23.9 million in fiscal 2010, $31.9 million in fiscal 2009, and $39.2 million in fiscal 2008. As of June 30, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $151.3 million. We commenced commercial sales of the Diamondback 360° in September 2007, and our short commercialization experience makes it difficult for us to predict future performance. We also expect to incur significant additional expenses for sales and marketing and manufacturing as we continue to commercialize the Diamondback Systems and additional expenses as we seek to develop and commercialize future versions of the Diamondback Systems and other products. Additionally, we expect that our general and administrative expenses will increase as our business grows and we incur the legal and regulatory costs associated with being a public company. As a result, our operating losses could continue. We may be unable to sustain our revenue growth. Our revenue has grown in each of the two complete fiscal years since we commenced commercial sales of the Diamondback 360° in September 2007. Our ability to continue to increase our revenues in future periods will depend on our ability to increase sales of the Diamondback Systems and new and improved products we introduce, including growing our customer base and reorders of the Diamondback Systems from those customers. We may not be able to generate, sustain or increase revenues on a quarterly or annual basis. If we cannot achieve or sustain revenue growth for an extended period, our financial results will be adversely affected and our stock price may decline. Economic conditions may adversely affect our business. Adverse worldwide economic conditions may have adverse implications on our business. For example, our customers’ ability to borrow money from their existing lenders or to obtain credit from other sources to fund operations may be impaired resulting in a decrease in sales. Although we review our customers’ financial condition and ability to pay on an ongoing basis and we maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments and such losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to experience the same loss rates that we have in the past. A significant change in the liquidity or financial condition of our customers could cause unfavorable trends in our receivable collections and additional allowances may be required, which could adversely affect our operating results. Adverse worldwide economic conditions may also adversely impact our suppliers’ ability to provide us with materials and components, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. In addition, uncertainty about current global economic conditions could increase the volatility of our stock price. 19 Table of Contents We have a limited history selling the Diamondback Systems, which are currently our primary products, and our inability to market these products successfully would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Although we also sell a variety of ancillary products, the Diamondback Systems are our primary products and we are largely dependent on them. We have limited experience in the commercial manufacture and marketing of these products. Our ability to generate revenue will depend upon our ability to further successfully commercialize the Diamondback Systems and to develop, manufacture and receive required regulatory clearances and approvals and patient reimbursement for treatment with future versions of the Diamondback Systems. As we continue to commercialize the Diamondback Systems, we may need to expand our sales force to reach our target market. Developing a sales force is expensive and time consuming and could delay or limit the success of any product launch. Thus, we may not be able to expand our sales and marketing capabilities on a timely basis or at all. If we are unable to adequately increase these capabilities, we will need to contract with third parties to market and sell the Diamondback Systems and any other products that we may develop. To the extent that we enter into arrangements with third parties to perform sales, marketing and distribution services on our behalf, our product revenues could be lower than if we marketed and sold our products on a direct basis. Furthermore, any revenues resulting from co-promotion or other marketing and sales arrangements with other companies will depend on the skills and efforts of others, and we do not know whether these efforts will be successful. If we fail to successfully develop, commercialize and market the Diamondback Systems or any future versions of these products that we develop, our business will be materially adversely affected. The Diamondback Systems and future products may never achieve broad market acceptance. The Diamondback Systems and future products we may develop may never gain broad market acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community. The degree of market acceptance of any of our products will depend on a number of factors, including: • the actual and perceived effectiveness and reliability of our products; • the prevalence and severity of any adverse patient events involving our products; • the results of any long-term clinical trials relating to use of our products; • the availability, relative cost and perceived advantages and disadvantages of alternative technologies or treatment methods for conditions treated by our systems; • the degree to which treatments using our products are approved for reimbursement by public and private insurers; • the strength of our marketing and distribution infrastructure; and • the level of education and awareness among physicians and hospitals concerning our products. Failure of the Diamondback Systems to significantly penetrate current or new markets would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. If longer-term or more extensive clinical trials performed by us or others indicate that procedures using the Diamondback Systems or any future products are not safe, effective and long lasting, physicians may choose not to use our products. Furthermore, unsatisfactory patient outcomes or injuries could cause negative publicity for our products. Physicians may be slow to adopt our products if they perceive liability risks arising from the use of these products. It is also possible that as our products become more widely used, latent defects could be identified, creating negative publicity and liability problems for us, thereby adversely affecting demand for our products. If the Diamondback Systems and our future products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, patients and the medical community, our overall business and profitability would be harmed. 20 Table of Contents Our future growth depends on physician adoption of the Diamondback Systems, which requires physicians to change their screening and referral practices. We believe that we must educate physicians to change their screening and referral practices. For example, although there is a significant correlation between PAD and coronary artery disease, many physicians do not routinely screen for PAD while screening for coronary artery disease. We target our sales efforts to interventional cardiologists, vascular surgeons and interventional radiologists because they are often the primary care physicians diagnosing and treating both coronary artery disease and PAD. However, the initial point of contact for many patients may be general practitioners, podiatrists, nephrologists and endocrinologists, each of whom commonly treats patients experiencing complications resulting from PAD. If referring physicians are not educated about PAD in general and the existence of the Diamondback Systems in particular, they may not refer patients to interventional cardiologists, vascular surgeons or interventional radiologists for the procedure using the Diamondback Systems, and those patients may instead be surgically treated or treated with an alternative interventional procedure. If we are not successful in educating physicians about screening for PAD or referral opportunities, our ability to increase our revenue may be impaired. Our customers may not be able to achieve adequate reimbursement for using the Diamondback Systems, which could affect the acceptance of our products and cause our business to suffer. The availability of insurance coverage and reimbursement for newly approved medical devices and procedures is uncertain. The commercial success of our products is substantially dependent on whether third-party insurance coverage and reimbursement for the use of such products and related services are available. We expect the Diamondback Systems to generally be purchased by hospitals and other providers who will then seek reimbursement from various public and private third-party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid and private insurers, for the services provided to patients. We can give no assurance that these third-party payors will provide adequate reimbursement for use of the Diamondback Systems to permit hospitals and doctors to consider the products cost-effective for patients requiring PAD treatment, or that current reimbursement levels for the Diamondback Systems will continue. In addition, the overall amount of reimbursement available for PAD treatment could decrease in the future. Failure by hospitals and other users of our products to obtain sufficient reimbursement could cause our business to suffer. Medicare, Medicaid, health maintenance organizations and other third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement, and, as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for use of the Diamondback Systems. In order to position the Diamondback Systems for acceptance by third-party payors, we may have to agree to lower prices than we might otherwise charge. Governmental and private sector payors have instituted initiatives to limit the growth of healthcare costs using, for example, price regulation or controls and competitive pricing programs. Some third-party payors also require demonstrated superiority, on the basis of randomized clinical trials, or pre-approval of coverage, for new or innovative devices or procedures before they will reimburse healthcare providers who use such devices or procedures. It is uncertain whether the Diamondback Systems or any future products we may develop will be viewed as sufficiently cost-effective to warrant adequate coverage and reimbursement levels. If third-party coverage and reimbursement for the Diamondback Systems is limited or not available, the acceptance of the Diamondback Systems and, consequently, our business will be substantially harmed. Healthcare reform legislation could adversely affect our revenue and financial condition. There have been and continue to be proposals by the federal government, state governments, regulators and third-party payors to control healthcare costs and, more generally, to reform the U.S. healthcare system. Certain of these proposals could limit the prices we are able to charge for our products or the amounts of reimbursement available for our products and could limit the acceptance and availability of our products. The adoption of some or all of these proposals, including the recent federal legislation, could adversely affect our revenue and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents On March 23, 2010, President Obama signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or the Patient Act. The impact on the healthcare industry of the Patient Act is extensive and includes, among other things, having the federal government assume a larger role in the healthcare system, expanding healthcare coverage of United States citizens and mandating basic healthcare benefits. Elements of this legislation, such as comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board, payment system reforms, including shared savings pilots and other provisions, could meaningfully change the way healthcare is developed and delivered, and may materially impact numerous aspects of our business. These changes may impact reimbursement for health care services, including reimbursement to hospitals and physicians. States may also enact further legislation that impacts Medicaid payments to hospitals and physicians. In addition, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, the Federal agency responsible for administering the Medicare program, may establish new payment levels for hospitals and physicians in line with the new legislation, which could increase or decrease payment to such entities. The healthcare reform legislation and any future legislative and regulatory initiatives could adversely affect demand for our products and have a material adverse impact on our revenues. Any healthcare reforms enacted in the future may, like the Patient Act, be phased in over a number of years but, if enacted, could reduce our revenues, increase our costs, or require us to revise the ways in which we conduct business or put us at risk for loss of business. Our results of operations, our financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected by changes under the Patient Act and changes under any federal or state legislation adopted in the future. The Patient Act also imposes significant new taxes on medical device makers. These taxes will result in a significant increase in the tax burden on our industry, which could have a material, negative impact on our results of operations and our cash flows. As rules and regulations are developed under the new law, there may be exemptions created for certain types or classes of products. We may find, however, that there are no exemptions applicable to our products. This tax will impact our cost of doing business and may ultimately lower our profit margins. Additionally, the increased cost of business caused by this tax may hinder our ability to spend money on research and development of our products. We may be required to increase the prices of our devices to offset the additional cost of the tax. Medicaid and health insurance providers may place a cap on the reimbursement for purchases of our devices that will not allow us to offset the cost of the tax. We may ultimately lose customers who are unwilling or unable to pay the increased costs, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. We have limited data and experience regarding the safety and efficacy of the Diamondback Systems. Any long-term data that is generated may not be positive or consistent with our limited short-term data, which would affect market acceptance of these products. Our success depends on the acceptance of the Diamondback Systems by the medical community as safe and effective. Because our technology is relatively new in the treatment of PAD, we have performed clinical trials only with limited patient populations. The long-term effects of using the Diamondback Systems in a large number of patients are not known and the results of short-term clinical use of the Diamondback Systems do not necessarily predict long-term clinical benefit or reveal long-term adverse effects. If the results obtained from any future clinical trials or clinical or commercial experience indicate that the Diamondback Systems are not as safe or effective as other treatment options or as current short-term data would suggest, adoption of these products may suffer and our business would be harmed. Even if we believe that the data collected from clinical trials or clinical experience indicate positive results, each physician’s actual experience with our device will vary. Clinical trials conducted with the Diamondback Systems have involved procedures performed by physicians who are very technically proficient. Consequently, both short and long-term results reported in these studies may be significantly more favorable than typical results achieved by physicians, which could negatively impact market acceptance of the Diamondback Systems. We face significant competition and may be unable to sell the Diamondback Systems at profitable levels. We compete against very large and well-known stent and balloon angioplasty device manufacturers, including Abbott Laboratories, Boston Scientific, Cook, Johnson & Johnson and Medtronic. We may have difficulty competing effectively with these competitors because of their well-established positions in the marketplace, significant financial and human capital resources, established reputations and worldwide distribution channels. We also compete against manufacturers of atherectomy catheters including, among others, Covidien, Spectranetics, 22 Table of Contents Boston Scientific and Pathway Medical Technologies, as well as other manufacturers that may enter the market due to the increasing demand for treatment of vascular disease. Several other companies provide products used by surgeons in peripheral bypass procedures. Other competitors include pharmaceutical companies that manufacture drugs for the treatment of mild to moderate PAD and companies that provide products used by surgeons in peripheral bypass procedures. Our competitors may: • develop and patent processes or products earlier than we will; • obtain regulatory clearances or approvals for competing medical device products more rapidly than we will; • market their products more effectively than we will; or • develop more effective or less expensive products or technologies that render our technology or products obsolete or non-competitive. We have encountered and expect to continue to encounter potential customers who, due to existing relationships with our competitors, are committed to or prefer the products offered by these competitors. If we are unable to compete successfully, our revenue will suffer. Increased competition might lead to price reductions and other concessions that might adversely affect our operating results. Competitive pressures may decrease the demand for our products and could adversely affect our financial results. Our ability to compete depends on our ability to innovate successfully. If our competitors demonstrate the increased safety or efficacy of their products as compared to ours, our revenue may decline. The market for medical devices is highly competitive, dynamic and marked by rapid and substantial technological development and product innovations. Our ability to compete depends on our ability to innovate successfully, and there are few barriers that would prevent new entrants or existing competitors from developing products that compete directly with our products. Demand for the Diamondback Systems could be diminished by equivalent or superior products and technologies offered by competitors. Our competitors may produce more advanced products than ours or demonstrate superior safety and efficacy of their products. If we are unable to innovate successfully, the Diamondback Systems could become obsolete and our revenue would decline as our customers purchase competitor products. We have limited commercial manufacturing experience and could experience difficulty in producing the Diamondback Systems or will need to depend on third parties to manufacture the products. We have limited experience in commercially manufacturing the Diamondback Systems and have no experience manufacturing these products in the volume that we anticipate will be required if we achieve planned levels of commercial sales. As a result, we may not be able to develop and implement efficient, low-cost manufacturing capabilities and processes that will enable us to manufacture the Diamondback Systems or future products in significant volumes, while meeting the legal, regulatory, quality, price, durability, engineering, design and production standards required to market our products successfully. If we fail to develop and implement these manufacturing capabilities and processes, we may be unable to profitably commercialize the Diamondback Systems and any future products we may develop because the per unit cost of our products is highly dependent upon production volumes and the level of automation in our manufacturing processes. There are technical challenges to increasing manufacturing capacity, including equipment design and automation capabilities, material procurement, problems with production yields and quality control and assurance. Increasing our manufacturing capacity may require that we invest substantial additional funds and hire and retain additional management and technical personnel who have the necessary manufacturing experience. We may not successfully complete any required increase in manufacturing capacity in a timely manner or at all. If we are unable to manufacture a sufficient supply of our products, maintain control over expenses or otherwise adapt to anticipated growth, or if we underestimate growth, we may not have the capability to satisfy market demand and our business will suffer. 23 Table of Contents The forecasts of demand we use to determine order quantities and lead times for components purchased from outside suppliers may be incorrect. Failure to obtain required components or subassemblies when needed and at a reasonable cost would adversely affect our business. In addition, we may in the future need to depend upon third parties to manufacture the Diamondback Systems and future products. We also cannot assure you that any third-party contract manufacturers will have the ability to produce the quantities of our products needed for development or commercial sales or will be willing to do so at prices that allow the products to compete successfully in the market. Additionally, we can give no assurance that even if we do contract with third-party manufacturers for production that these manufacturers will not experience manufacturing difficulties or experience quality or regulatory issues. Any difficulties in locating and hiring third-party manufacturers, or in the ability of third-party manufacturers to supply quantities of our products at the times and in the quantities we need, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend upon third-party suppliers, including single source suppliers to us and our customers, making us vulnerable to supply problems and price fluctuations. We rely on third-party suppliers to provide us with certain components of our products and to provide key components or supplies to our customers for use with our products. We rely on single source suppliers for the components of the Diamondback Systems. We purchase components from these suppliers on a purchase order basis and carry only limited levels of inventory for these components. If we underestimate our requirements, we may not have an adequate supply, which could interrupt manufacturing of our products and result in delays in shipments and loss of revenue. We depend on these suppliers to provide us and our customers with materials in a timely manner that meet ours and their quality, quantity and cost requirements. These suppliers may encounter problems during manufacturing for a variety of reasons, any of which could delay or impede their ability to meet our demand and our customers’ demand. Our reliance on these outside suppliers also subjects us to other risks that could harm our business, including: • interruption of supply resulting from modifications to, or discontinuation of, a supplier’s operations; • delays in product shipments; • price fluctuations; • our suppliers may make errors in manufacturing components; • our suppliers may discontinue production of components; • we and our customers may not be able to obtain adequate supplies in a timely manner or on commercially acceptable terms; • we and our customers may have difficulty locating and qualifying alternative suppliers for ours and their sole-source supplies; • switching components may require product redesign and new regulatory submissions; • we may experience production delays related to the evaluation and testing of products from alternative suppliers and corresponding regulatory qualifications; • our suppliers manufacture products for a range of customers, and fluctuations in demand for the products these suppliers manufacture for others may affect their ability to deliver components to us or our customers in a timely manner; and • our suppliers may encounter financial hardships unrelated to us or our customers’ demand for components or other products. Other than existing, unfulfilled purchase orders or obligations we have met, our suppliers have no contractual obligations to supply us with, and we are not contractually obligated to purchase from them, any of our supplies. Any supply interruption from our suppliers or failure to obtain additional suppliers for any of the components used in our products would limit our ability to manufacture our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we lost one of these suppliers and were unable to obtain an 24 Table of Contents alternate source on a timely basis or on terms acceptable to us, our production schedules could be delayed, our margins could be negatively impacted, and we could fail to meet our customers’ demand. Our customers rely upon our ability to meet committed delivery dates and any disruption in the supply of key components would adversely affect our ability to meet these dates and could result in legal action by our customers, cause us to lose customers or harm our ability to attract new customers, any of which could decrease our revenue and negatively impact our growth. In addition, to the extent that our suppliers use technology or manufacturing processes that are proprietary, we may be unable to obtain comparable materials or components from alternative sources. Manufacturing operations are often faced with a supplier’s decision to discontinue manufacturing a component, which may force us or our customers to make last time purchases, qualify a substitute part, or make a design change which may divert engineering time away from the development of new products. Consolidation in the healthcare industry could lead to demands for price concessions or the exclusion of some suppliers from our market segment, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The cost of healthcare has risen significantly over the past decade and numerous initiatives and reforms by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to curb these costs have resulted in a consolidation trend in the healthcare industry. This in turn has resulted in greater pricing pressures and the exclusion of certain suppliers from important market segments as group purchasing organizations, independent delivery networks and large single accounts continue to consolidate purchasing decisions for some of our hospital customers. We expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies, government contracting requirements, and societal pressures will continue to change the worldwide healthcare industry, resulting in further business consolidations and alliances among our customers and competitors, which may reduce competition, exert downward pressure on the prices of our products and adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may need to increase the size of our organization and we may experience difficulties managing growth. If we are unable to manage the anticipated growth of our business, our future revenue and operating results may be adversely affected. The growth we may experience in the future may provide challenges to our organization, requiring us to rapidly expand our sales and marketing personnel and manufacturing operations. Our sales and marketing force has increased from six full-time employees on January 1, 2007 to 157 full-time employees on June 30, 2010, and we expect to continue to grow our sales and marketing force in the future. We also expect to significantly expand our manufacturing operations to meet anticipated growth in demand for our products. Rapid expansion in personnel may result in less experienced people producing and selling our product, which could result in unanticipated costs and disruptions to our operations. If we cannot scale and manage our business appropriately, our anticipated growth may be impaired and our financial results will suffer. We may require additional financing, and our failure to obtain additional financing when needed could force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. We may be dependent on additional financing to execute our business plan. Although we expect to achieve our first profitable quarter during fiscal year 2011, our plans for expansion may still require additional financing. In particular, we may require additional capital in order to continue to conduct the research and development and obtain regulatory clearances and approvals necessary to bring any future products to market and to establish effective marketing and sales capabilities for existing and future products. Our operating plan may change, and we may need additional funds sooner than anticipated to meet our operational needs and capital requirements for product development, clinical trials and commercialization. Additional funds may not be available when we need them on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on a timely basis, we may terminate or delay the development of one or more of our products, or delay establishment of sales and marketing capabilities or other activities necessary to commercialize our products. 25 Table of Contents Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the costs of expanding our sales and marketing infrastructure and our manufacturing operations; • the degree of success we experience in commercializing the Diamondback Systems; • the number and types of future products we develop and commercialize; • the costs, timing and outcomes of regulatory reviews associated with our future product candidates; • the costs of preparing, filing and prosecuting patent applications and maintaining, enforcing and defending intellectual property-related claims; and • the extent and scope of our general and administrative expenses. Disruptions in the global financial markets, including the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States and other governments and the related liquidity crisis, considerably disrupted the credit and capital markets at the end of 2008 and have not fully recovered since then. To date, our loan arrangements with Silicon Valley Bank and Partners for Growth remain available to us. In the event we need or desire additional financing, we may be unable to obtain it by borrowing money in the credit markets or raising money in the capital markets. We face a risk of non-compliance with the financial covenants in our loan and security agreements with Silicon Valley Bank and Partners for Growth. We are party to loan and security agreements with Silicon Valley Bank and Partners for Growth. These agreements require us to maintain, among other things, a monthly specified liquidity ratio and a monthly adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, level. The agreements contain customary events of default, including, among others, the failure to comply with certain covenants or other agreements. Upon the occurrence and during the continuation of an event of default, amounts due under the agreements may be accelerated by Silicon Valley Bank or Partners for Growth. We were not in compliance with some of the financial covenants contained in our prior loan agreement with Silicon Valley Bank during certain months in the year ended June 30, 2010, which Silicon Valley Bank waived and were subsequently changed in our amended and restated loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank. If we are unable to meet the financial or other covenants under the current loan and security agreements or negotiate future waivers or amendments of such covenants, events of default could occur under the agreements. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an event of default under the agreements, Silicon Valley Bank and Partners for Growth have available a range of remedies customary in these circumstances, including declaring all outstanding debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon, to be due and payable, foreclosing on the assets securing the agreements and/or ceasing to provide additional loans, which could have a material adverse effect on us. The restrictive covenants in our loan and security agreements could limit our ability to conduct our business and respond to changing economic and business conditions and may place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies that are subject to fewer restrictions. Our loan and security agreements with Silicon Valley Bank and Partners for Growth limit our ability to, among other things: • transfer all or any part of our business or properties; • permit or suffer a change in control; • merge or consolidate, or acquire any entity; • incur additional indebtedness or liens with respect to any of their properties; • pay dividends or make any other distribution on or purchase of, any of our capital stock; • make investments in other companies; or • engage in related party transactions. 26 Table of Contents The restrictive covenants under these agreements could limit our ability to obtain future financing, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. The financial and restrictive covenants contained in the agreements could also adversely affect our ability to respond to changing economic and business conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies that may be subject to fewer restrictions. Transactions that we may view as important opportunities, such as acquisitions, may be subject to the consent of Silicon Valley Bank and Partners for Growth, which consents may be withheld or granted subject to conditions specified at the time that may affect the attractiveness or viability of the transaction. We do not intend to market the Diamondback Systems internationally in the near future, which will limit our potential revenue from these products. While we plan to continue to evaluate the financial viability of marketing the Diamondback Systems internationally, we currently do not intend to market the Diamondback Systems internationally in the near future in order to focus our resources and efforts on the U.S. market, as international efforts would require substantial additional sales and marketing, regulatory and personnel expenses. Our decision to market these products only in the United States will limit our ability to reach all of our potential markets and will limit our potential sources of revenue. In addition, our competitors will have an opportunity to further penetrate and achieve market share abroad until such time, if ever, that we market the Diamondback Systems or other products internationally. We are dependent on our senior management team and highly skilled personnel, and our business could be harmed if we are unable to attract and retain personnel necessary for our success. We are highly dependent on our senior management, especially David L. Martin, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Our success will depend on our ability to retain senior management and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future, including scientists, clinicians, engineers and other highly skilled personnel and to integrate current and additional personnel in all departments. Competition for senior management personnel, as well as scientists, clinical and regulatory specialists, engineers and sales personnel, is intense and we may not be able to retain our personnel. The loss of members of our senior management, scientists, clinical and regulatory specialists, engineers and sales personnel could prevent us from achieving our objectives of continuing to grow the company. The loss of a member of our senior management or professional staff would require the remaining senior executive officers to divert immediate and substantial attention to seeking a replacement. In particular, we expect to substantially increase the size of our sales force, which will require management’s attention. In that regard, ev3 Inc., ev3 Endovascular, Inc., and FoxHollow Technologies, Inc. have brought an action against us that, if successful, could limit our ability to retain the services of certain sales personnel that were formerly employed by those companies and make it more difficult to recruit and hire such sales and other personnel in the future. We do not carry key person life insurance on any of our employees. We may be subject to damages or other remedies as a result of pending litigation. On December 28, 2007, ev3 Inc., ev3 Endovascular, Inc. and FoxHollow Technologies, Inc. filed a complaint against us and certain of our employees alleging, among other things, misappropriation and use of their confidential information by us and certain of our employees who were formerly employees of FoxHollow. The complaint also alleges that certain of our employees violated their employment agreements with FoxHollow requiring them to refrain from soliciting FoxHollow employees. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of this litigation. We are defending this litigation vigorously. If we are not successful in defending it, we could be required to pay substantial damages and be subject to equitable relief that could include a requirement that we terminate the employment of certain employees, including certain key sales personnel who were formerly employed by FoxHollow. In any event, the defense of this litigation, regardless of the outcome, could result in substantial legal costs and diversion of our management’s time and efforts from the operation of our business. If the plaintiffs in this litigation are successful, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition. 27 Table of Contents Risks Related to Government Regulation Our ability to market the Diamondback Systems in the United States is limited to use as a therapy in patients with PAD, and if we want to expand our marketing claims, we will need to file for additional FDA clearances or approvals and conduct further clinical trials, which would be expensive and time-consuming and may not be successful. The Diamondback Systems received FDA 510(k) clearances in the United States for use as a therapy in patients with PAD. This general clearance restricts our ability to market or advertise the Diamondback Systems beyond this use and could affect our growth. While off-label uses of medical devices are common and the FDA does not regulate physicians’ choice of treatments, the FDA does restrict a manufacturer’s communications regarding such off-label use. We will not actively promote or advertise the Diamondback Systems for off-label uses. In addition, we cannot make comparative claims regarding the use of the Diamondback Systems against any alternative treatments without conducting head-to-head comparative clinical trials, which would be expensive and time consuming. If our promotional activities fail to comply with the FDA’s regulations or guidelines, we may be subject to FDA warnings or enforcement action. If we determine to market the Diamondback Systems in the United States for other uses, for instance, use in the coronary arteries, we would need to conduct further clinical trials and obtain premarket approval from the FDA. In 2008, we completed the ORBIT I trial, a 50-patient study in India which investigated the safety of the Diamondback 360o in treating calcified coronary artery lesions, and results successfully met both safety and efficacy endpoints. We recently submitted an investigational device exemption, or IDE, application to the FDA for ORBIT II, a pivotal trial in the United States to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of the Diamondback 360o in treating severely calcified coronary lesions, which application the FDA approved. Clinical trials are complex, expensive, time consuming, uncertain and subject to substantial and unanticipated delays. Clinical trials generally involve a substantial number of patients in a multi-year study. We may encounter problems with our clinical trials, and any of those problems could cause us or the FDA to suspend those trials, or delay the analysis of the data derived from them. A number of events or factors, including any of the following, could delay the completion of our clinical trials in the future and negatively impact our ability to obtain FDA clearance or approval for, and to introduce, a particular future product: • delays in obtaining or maintaining required approvals from institutional review boards or other reviewing entities at clinical sites selected for participation in our clinical trials; • insufficient supply of our future product candidates or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials; • difficulties in enrolling patients in our clinical trials; • negative or inconclusive results from clinical trials, results that are inconsistent with earlier results, or the likelihood that the part of the human anatomy involved is more prone to serious adverse events, necessitating additional clinical trials; • serious or unexpected side effects experienced by patients who use our future product candidates; or • failure by any of our third-party contractors or investigators to comply with regulatory requirements or meet other contractual obligations in a timely manner. Our clinical trials may not begin as planned, may need to be redesigned, and may not be completed on schedule, if at all. Delays in our clinical trials may result in increased development costs for our future product candidates, which could cause our stock price to decline and limit our ability to obtain additional financing. In addition, if one or more of our clinical trials is delayed, competitors may be able to bring products to market before we do, and the commercial viability of our future product candidates could be significantly reduced. 28 Table of Contents We may become subject to regulatory actions if we are found to have promoted the Diamondback Systems for unapproved uses. If the FDA determines that our promotional materials, training or other activities constitute promotion of our products for unapproved uses, it could request that we cease use of or modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of an untitled or warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider promotional, training or other materials to constitute promotion of our products for an unapproved or uncleared use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. The Diamondback Systems may in the future be subject to product recalls that could harm our reputation. The FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material regulatory deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. A government mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design or labeling defects. During the time of commercialization, we have had two minor instances of recall, involving one single lot of Diamondback 360° devices (eight units), and two boxes of ViperWires (ten wires), related to “Use By” date labeling issues. In addition, a third recall, initiated in 2009 and completed in 2010, involved the ViperSheath, which is owned and manufactured by Thomas Medical Products. As the distributor for the ViperSheath, we were required to recall all unused units from our customers and return them to Thomas Medical Products. Any additional recalls of our products or products that we distribute would divert managerial and financial resources, harm our reputation with customers and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements, or if we experience unanticipated problems, our products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market. The Diamondback Systems and related manufacturing processes, clinical data, adverse events, recalls or corrections and promotional activities, are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. In particular, we are required to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, and other regulations, which cover the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of any product for which we obtain marketing clearance or approval. We are also responsible for the quality of components received by our suppliers. Failure to comply with the QSR requirements or other statutes and regulations administered by the FDA and other regulatory bodies, or failure to adequately respond to any observations, could result in, among other things: • warning or other letters from the FDA; • fines, injunctions and civil penalties; • product recall or seizure; • unanticipated expenditures; • delays in clearing or approving or refusal to clear or approve products; • withdrawal or suspension of approval or clearance by the FDA or other regulatory bodies; • orders for physician notification or device repair, replacement or refund; • operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production or clinical trials; and • criminal prosecution. If any of these actions were to occur, it would harm our reputation and cause our product sales to suffer. Furthermore, any modification to a device that has received FDA clearance or approval that could significantly affect its safety or efficacy, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, design or manufacture, requires a new clearance or approval from the FDA. If the FDA disagrees with any determination by us that new 29 Table of Contents clearance or approval is not required, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance or approval. In addition, we could be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. Regulatory clearance or approval of a product may also require costly post-marketing testing or surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products, including unanticipated adverse events or adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, manufacturing problems, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements such as the QSR, may result in restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of the products from the market, voluntary or mandatory recalls, fines, suspension of regulatory approvals, product seizures, injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. The use, misuse or off-label use of the Diamondback Systems may increase the risk of injury, which could result in product liability claims and damage to our business. The use, misuse or off-label use of the Diamondback Systems may result in injuries that lead to product liability suits, which could be costly to our business. The Diamondback Systems are not FDA-cleared or approved for treatment of the carotid arteries, the coronary arteries, within bypass grafts or stents, of thrombus or where the lesion cannot be crossed with a guidewire or a significant dissection is present at the lesion site. We cannot prevent a physician from using the Diamondback Systems for off-label applications. The off-label use of the Diamondback Systems may be more likely to result in complications that have serious consequences, including, in certain circumstances, in death. We may face risks related to product liability claims, which could exceed the limits of available insurance coverage. If the Diamondback Systems are defectively designed, manufactured or labeled, contain defective components or are misused, we may become subject to costly litigation by our customers or their patients. The medical device industry is subject to substantial litigation, and we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products results or is alleged to have resulted in adverse effects to a patient. In most jurisdictions, producers of medical products are strictly liable for personal injuries caused by medical devices. We may be subject in the future to claims for personal injuries arising out of the use of our products. Product liability claims could divert management’s attention from our core business, be expensive to defend and result in sizable damage awards against us. A product liability claim against us, even if ultimately unsuccessful, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and reputation. While we have product liability insurance coverage for our products and intend to maintain such insurance coverage in the future, there can be no assurance that we will be adequately protected from the claims that will be brought against us. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations could be expensive. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could subject us to significant liability. Our operations are subject to regulatory requirements relating to the environment, waste management and health and safety matters, including measures relating to the release, use, storage, treatment, transportation, discharge, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances. Although we are currently classified as a Very Small Quantity Hazardous Waste Generator within Ramsey County, Minnesota, we cannot ensure that we will maintain our licensed status as such, nor can we ensure that we will not incur material costs or liability in connection with our operations, or that our past or future operations will not result in claims or injury by employees or the public. Environmental laws and regulations could also become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations. We and our distributors must comply with various federal and state anti-kickback, self-referral, false claims and similar laws, any breach of which could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our relationships with physicians, hospitals and the marketers of our products are subject to scrutiny under various federal anti-kickback, self-referral, false claims and similar laws, often referred to collectively as healthcare fraud and abuse laws. 30 Table of Contents Healthcare fraud and abuse laws are complex, and even minor, inadvertent violations can give rise to claims that the relevant law has been violated. If our operations are found to be in violation of these laws, we, as well as our employees, may be subject to penalties, including monetary fines, civil and criminal penalties, exclusion from federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, Veterans Administration health programs, workers’ compensation programs and TRICARE (the healthcare system administered by or on behalf of the U.S. Department of Defense for uniformed services beneficiaries, including active duty and their dependents, retirees and their dependents), and forfeiture of amounts collected in violation of such prohibitions. Individual employees may need to defend such suits on behalf of us or themselves, which could lead to significant disruption in our present and future operations. Certain states in which we intend to market our products have similar fraud and abuse laws, imposing substantial penalties for violations. Any government investigation or a finding of a violation of these laws would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Anti-kickback laws and regulations prohibit any knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for the referral of an individual or the ordering or recommending of the use of a product or service for which payment may be made by Medicare, Medicaid or other government-sponsored healthcare programs. In addition, the cost of non-compliance with these laws could be substantial, since we could be subject to monetary fines and civil or criminal penalties, and we could also be excluded from federally funded healthcare programs for non-compliance. We have entered into consulting agreements with physicians, including some who may make referrals to us or order our products. One of these physicians was one of 20 principal investigators in our OASIS clinical trial at the same time he was acting as a paid consultant for us. In addition, some of these physicians own our stock, which they purchased in arm’s-length transactions on terms identical to those offered to non-physicians, or received stock options from us as consideration for consulting services performed by them. We believe that these consulting agreements and equity investments by physicians are common practice in our industry, and while these transactions were structured with the intention of complying with all applicable laws, including the federal ban on physician self-referrals, commonly known as the “Stark Law,” state anti-referral laws and other applicable anti-kickback laws, it is possible that regulatory or enforcement agencies or courts may in the future view these transactions as prohibited arrangements that must be restructured or for which we would be subject to other significant civil or criminal penalties, or prohibit us from accepting referrals from these physicians. Because our strategy relies on the involvement of physicians who consult with us on the design of our product, we could be materially impacted if regulatory or enforcement agencies or courts interpret our financial relationships with our physician advisors who refer or order our products to be in violation of applicable laws and determine that we would be unable to achieve compliance with such applicable laws. This could harm our reputation and the reputations of our clinical advisors. The scope and enforcement of all of these laws is uncertain and subject to rapid change. There can be no assurance that federal or state regulatory or enforcement authorities will not investigate or challenge our current or future activities under these laws. Any investigation or challenge could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any state or federal regulatory or enforcement review of us, regardless of the outcome, would be costly and time consuming. Additionally, we cannot predict the impact of any changes in these laws, whether these changes are retroactive or will have effect on a going-forward basis only. We incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to compliance initiatives. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Nasdaq Global Market, have imposed various requirements on public companies, including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and made some activities more time consuming and costly. We cannot ensure that our corporate compliance program is or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. 31 Table of Contents The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management and, at certain times, our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, when and if required, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with these requirements in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by Nasdaq, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. These obligations divert management’s time and attention away from our business. Our management may not be able to effectively and timely implement controls and procedures that adequately respond to the increased regulatory compliance and reporting requirements that are applicable. If we fail to staff our accounting and finance function adequately or maintain internal controls adequate to meet the demands that are placed upon us a public company, including the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we may be unable to report our financial results accurately or in a timely manner, and our business and stock price may suffer. The costs of being a public company, as well as diversion of management’s time and attention, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, these laws and regulations could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, board committees or as executive officers. Risks Relating to Our Intellectual Property Our inability to adequately protect our intellectual property could allow our competitors and others to produce products based on our technology, which could substantially impair our ability to compete. Our success and ability to compete depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights and trademarks, as well as trade secrets and nondisclosure agreements, to protect our intellectual property. As of July 31, 2010, we had a portfolio of 26 issued U.S. patents and 59 issued or granted non-U.S. patents covering aspects of our core technology, which expire between 2010 and 2027. However, our issued patents and related intellectual property may not be adequate to protect us or permit us to gain or maintain a competitive advantage. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its scope, validity or enforceability. The scope, validity or enforceability of our issued patents can be challenged in litigation or proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or the USPTO. In addition, our pending patent applications include claims to numerous important aspects of our products under development that are not currently protected by any of our issued patents. We cannot assure you that any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents to us. The USPTO may deny or require significant narrowing of claims in our pending patent applications. Even if any patents are issued as a result of pending patent applications, they may not provide us with significant commercial protection or be issued in a form that is advantageous to us. Proceedings before the USPTO could result in adverse decisions as to the priority of our inventions and the narrowing or invalidation of claims in issued patents. Further, if any patents we obtain or license are deemed invalid and unenforceable, or have their scope narrowed, it could impact our ability to commercialize or license our technology. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. For instance, the U.S. Supreme Court has recently modified some tests used by the USPTO in granting patents during the past 20 years, which may decrease the likelihood that we will be able to obtain patents and increase the likelihood of challenge of any patents we obtain or license. In addition, the USPTO has adopted new rules of practice (the application of which has been enjoined as a result of litigation) that limit the number of claims that may be filed in a patent application and the number of continuation or 32 Table of Contents continuation-in-part applications that may be filed. These new rules may result in patent applicants being unable to secure all of the rights that they would otherwise have been entitled to in the absence of the new rules and, therefore, may negatively affect our ability to obtain comprehensive patent coverage. The laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, if at all. To protect our proprietary rights, we may, in the future, need to assert claims of infringement against third parties to protect our intellectual property. The outcome of litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights in patents, copyrights, trade secrets or trademarks is highly unpredictable, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, reputation and results of operations regardless of the final outcome of such litigation. In the event of an adverse judgment, a court could hold that some or all of our asserted intellectual property rights are not infringed, invalid or unenforceable, and could order us to pay third-party attorneys’ fees. Despite our efforts to safeguard our unpatented and unregistered intellectual property rights, we may not be successful in doing so or the steps taken by us in this regard may not be adequate to detect or deter misappropriation of our technology or to prevent an unauthorized third party from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our products, technology or other information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, we may not have sufficient resources to litigate, enforce or defend our intellectual property rights. Additionally, third parties may be able to design around our patents. We also rely on trade secrets, technical know-how and continuing innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. In this regard, we seek to protect our proprietary information and other intellectual property by requiring our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors to execute non-disclosure and assignment of invention agreements on commencement of their employment or engagement. Agreements with our employees also forbid them from bringing the proprietary rights of third parties to us. We also require confidentiality or material transfer agreements from third parties that receive our confidential data or materials. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We cannot provide any assurance that employees and third parties will abide by the confidentiality or assignment terms of these agreements, or that we will be effective securing necessary assignments from these third parties. Despite measures taken to protect our intellectual property, unauthorized parties might copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using any of our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Finally, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information, and this would prevent us from asserting any such trade secret rights against these parties. Our inability to adequately protect our intellectual property could allow our competitors and others to produce products based on our technology, which could substantially impair our ability to compete. Claims of infringement or misappropriation of the intellectual property rights of others could prohibit us from commercializing products, require us to obtain licenses from third parties or require us to develop non-infringing alternatives, and subject us to substantial monetary damages and injunctive relief. The medical technology industry is characterized by extensive litigation and administrative proceedings over patent and other intellectual property rights. The likelihood that patent infringement or misappropriation claims may be brought against us increases as we achieve more visibility in the marketplace and introduce products to market. All issued patents are entitled to a presumption of validity under the laws of the United States. Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. Therefore, we cannot be certain that we have not infringed the intellectual property rights of such third parties or others. Our competitors may assert that our products are covered by U.S. or foreign patents held by them. We are aware of numerous patents issued to third parties that relate to the manufacture and use of medical devices for interventional cardiology. The owners of each of these patents could assert that the manufacture, use or sale of our products infringes one or more claims of their patents. Because patent applications may take years to issue, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware that may later result in issued patents that we infringe. If another party has filed a U.S. patent application on inventions similar to ours, we may have to participate in an interference proceeding declared by the USPTO to determine priority of invention in the United States. The costs of these proceedings can be substantial, and it is possible that such efforts would be unsuccessful if unbeknownst to us, the other party had independently arrived at the same or similar invention prior to our own invention, resulting in a 33 Table of Contents loss of our U.S. patent position with respect to such inventions. There could also be existing patents of which we are unaware that one or more aspects of its technology may inadvertently infringe. In some cases, litigation may be threatened or brought by a patent-holding company or other adverse patent owner who has no relevant product revenues and against whom our patents may provide little or no deterrence. Any infringement or misappropriation claim could cause us to incur significant costs, place significant strain on our financial resources, divert management’s attention from our business and harm our reputation. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the funds necessary to continue our operations. Although patent and intellectual property disputes in the medical device area have often been settled through licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with such arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. If the relevant patents were upheld in litigation as valid and enforceable and we were found to infringe, we could be prohibited from commercializing any infringing products unless we could obtain licenses to use the technology covered by the patent or are able to design around the patent. We may be unable to obtain a license on terms acceptable to us, if at all, and we may not be able to redesign any infringing products to avoid infringement. Further, any redesign may not receive FDA clearance or approval or may not receive such clearance or approval in a timely manner. Any such license could impair operating margins on future product revenue. A court could also order us to pay compensatory damages for such infringement, and potentially treble damages, plus prejudgment interest and third-party attorneys’ fees. These damages could be substantial and could harm our reputation, business, financial condition and operating results. A court also could enter orders that temporarily, preliminarily or permanently enjoin us and our customers from making, using, selling, offering to sell or importing infringing products, or could enter an order mandating that we undertake certain remedial activities. Depending on the nature of the relief ordered by the court, we could become liable for additional damages to third parties. Adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products, which would have a significant adverse impact on our business. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock Until recently there has not been a public market for our common stock and our stock price is expected to be volatile and you may not be able to resell your shares. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. Market prices for securities of early-stage pharmaceutical, medical device, biotechnology and other life sciences companies have historically been particularly volatile. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: • our ability to develop, obtain regulatory clearances or approvals for and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis; • changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals, clearances or future applications; • our announcements or our competitors’ announcements regarding new products, product enhancements, significant contracts, number of hospitals and physicians using our products, acquisitions or strategic investments; • announcements of technological or medical innovations for the treatment of vascular disease; • delays or other problems with the manufacturing of the Diamondback Systems; • volume and timing of orders for the Diamondback Systems and any future products, if and when commercialized; • changes in the availability of third-party reimbursement in the United States and other countries; • quarterly variations in our or our competitors’ results of operations; 34 Table of Contents • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts who cover our common stock; • failure to meet estimates or recommendations by securities analysts who cover our stock; • changes in healthcare policy; • product liability claims or other litigation; • product recalls; • accusations that we have violated a law or regulation; • sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; • disputes or other developments with respect to intellectual property rights; • changes in accounting principles; and • general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. In addition, if securities class action litigation is initiated against us, we would incur substantial costs and our management’s attention would be diverted from operations. All of these factors could cause the price of our stock to decline, and you may lose some or all of your investment. Moreover, the stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against such company. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation. We do not expect to pay cash dividends, and accordingly, stockholders must rely on stock appreciation for any return on their investment in the company. We anticipate that we will retain our earnings, if any, for future growth and therefore do not anticipate that we will pay cash dividends in the future. As a result, appreciation of the price of our common stock is the only potential source of return to stockholders. Investors seeking cash dividends should not invest in our common stock. If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable research or downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. Investors may look to reports of equity research analysts for additional information regarding our industry and operations. Therefore, any trading market for our common stock will rely in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We do not control these analysts. Equity research analysts may elect not to provide research coverage of our common stock, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If equity research analysts do provide research coverage of our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline if one or more of these analysts downgrade the common stock or if they issue other unfavorable commentary about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. 35 Table of Contents Some provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; • limiting the removal of directors by the stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of stockholders; • eliminating the ability of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless such transactions are approved by such corporation’s board of directors. This provision could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, whether or not it is desired by or beneficial to our stockholders. Future sales and issuances of our common stock or rights to purchase common stock, including pursuant to equity incentive plans, could result in additional dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders and could cause our stock price to fall. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We are unable to predict the effect that sales may have on the prevailing market price of the common stock. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, including in a debt financing where we issue convertible notes or notes with warrants, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. We may sell common stock in one or more transactions at prices and in a manner we determine from time to time. If we sell common stock in more than one transaction, existing stockholders may be materially diluted. In addition, new investors could gain rights superior to existing stockholders, such as liquidation and other preferences. We have stock options and warrants outstanding to purchase shares of our capital stock. Our stockholders will incur dilution upon exercise of any outstanding stock options or warrants. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 