ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our failure to establish and maintain distributor relationships for any reason could negatively impact sales of our products and harm our financial condition and operating results. We distribute our products exclusively through over one million independent distributors, and we depend upon them directly for substantially all of our sales. To increase our revenue, we must increase the number of, or the productivity of, our distributors. Accordingly, our success depends in significant part upon our ability to recruit, retain and motivate a large base of distributors. There is a high rate of turnover among our distributors, a characteristic of the network marketing business. The loss of a significant number of distributors for any reason could negatively impact sales of our products and could impair our ability to attract new distributors. In our efforts to attract and retain distributors, we compete with other network marketing organizations, including those in the weight management product, dietary and nutritional supplement and personal care and cosmetic product industries. Our operating results could be harmed if our existing and new business opportunities and products do not generate sufficient interest to retain existing distributors and attract new distributors. In light of the high year-over-year rate of turnover in our distributor base, we have our supervisors and non-supervisor distributors requalify annually in order to help us maintain a more accurate count of their numbers. For the latest twelve month re-qualification period ending January 2005, 60% of our supervisors did not re-qualify and more than 90% of our distributors that are not supervisors turned over. Distributors who purchase our product for personal consumption or for short-term income goals may stay with us for several months to one year. Supervisors who have committed time and effort to build a sales organization will generally stay for longer periods. Distributors 26 have highly variable levels of training, skills and capabilities. The turnover rate of our distributors, and our operating results, can be adversely impacted if we and our senior distributor leadership do not provide the necessary mentoring, training and business support tools for new distributors to become successful sales people in a short period of time. We estimate that, of our over one million independent distributors, we had approximately 201,000 supervisors after requalifications in February 2005. These supervisors, together with their downline sales organizations, account for substantially all of our revenues. Our distributors, including our supervisors, may voluntarily terminate their distributor agreements with us at any time. The loss of a group of leading supervisors, together with their downline sales organizations, or the loss of a significant number of distributors for any reason, could negatively impact sales of our products, impair our ability to attract new distributors and harm our financial condition and operating results. Since we cannot exert the same level of influence or control over our independent distributors as we could were they our own employees, our distributors could fail to comply with our distributor policies and procedures, which could result in claims against us that could harm our financial condition and operating results. Our distributors are independent contractors and, accordingly, we are not in a position to directly provide the same direction, motivation and oversight as we would if distributors were our own employees. As a result, there can be no assurance that our distributors will participate in our marketing strategies or plans, accept our introduction of new products, or comply with our distributor policies and procedures. Extensive federal, state and local laws regulate our business, our products and our network marketing program. Because we have expanded into foreign countries, our policies and procedures for our independent distributors differ due to the different legal requirements of each country in which we do business. While we have implemented distributor policies and procedures designed to govern distributor conduct and to protect the goodwill associated with Herbalife trademarks and tradenames, it can be difficult to enforce these policies and procedures because of the large number of distributors and their independent status. Violations by our distributors of applicable law or of our policies and procedures in dealing with customers could reflect negatively on our products and operations, and harm our business reputation. In addition, it is possible that a court could hold us civilly or criminally accountable based on vicarious liability because of the actions of our independent distributors. If any of these events occur, the value of an investment in our common shares could be impaired. Adverse publicity associated with our products, ingredients or network marketing program, or those of similar companies, could harm our financial condition and operating results. The size of our distribution force and the results of our operations may be significantly affected by the public’s perception of our Company and similar companies. This perception is dependent upon opinions concerning: • the safety and quality of our products and ingredients; • the safety and quality of similar products and ingredients distributed by other companies; • our distributors; • our network marketing program; and • the direct selling business generally. Adverse publicity concerning any actual or purported failure of our Company or our distributors to comply with applicable laws and regulations regarding product claims and advertising, good manufacturing practices, the regulation of our network marketing program, the licensing of our products for sale in our target markets or other aspects of our business, whether or not resulting in enforcement actions or the imposition of penalties, could have an adverse effect on the goodwill of our Company and could negatively affect our ability to attract, motivate and retain distributors, which would negatively impact our ability to generate revenue. We cannot ensure that all distributors will comply with applicable legal requirements relating to the advertising, labeling, licensing or distribution of our products. 27 In addition, our distributors’ and consumers’ perception of the safety and quality of our products and ingredients as well as similar products and ingredients distributed by other companies can be significantly influenced by national media attention, publicized scientific research or findings, widespread product liability claims and other publicity concerning our products or ingredients or similar products and ingredients distributed by other companies. Adverse publicity, whether or not accurate or resulting from consumers’ use or misuse of our products, that associates consumption of our products or ingredients or any similar products or ingredients with illness or other adverse effects, questions the benefits of our or similar products or claims that any such products are ineffective, inappropriately labeled or have inaccurate instructions as to their use, could negatively impact our reputation or the market demand for our products. Adverse publicity relating to us, our products or our operations, including our network marketing program or the attractiveness or viability of the financial opportunities provided thereby, has had, and could again have, a negative effect on our ability to attract, motivate and retain distributors. In the mid-1980’s, our products and marketing program became the subject of regulatory scrutiny in the United States, resulting in large part from claims and representations made about our products by our distributors, including impermissible therapeutic claims. The resulting adverse publicity caused a rapid, substantial loss of distributors in the United States and a corresponding reduction in sales beginning in 1985. We expect that negative publicity will, from time to time, continue to negatively impact our business in particular markets. Our failure to appropriately respond to changing consumer preferences and demand for new products or product enhancements could significantly harm our distributor and customer relationships and product sales and harm our financial condition and operating results and cause the loss or reduction in the value of your investment in our common shares. Our business is subject to changing consumer trends and preferences, especially with respect to weight management products. Our continued success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes, and we may not respond in a timely or commercially appropriate manner to such changes. Furthermore, the nutritional supplement industry is characterized by rapid and frequent changes in demand for products and new product introductions and enhancements. Our failure to accurately predict these trends could negatively impact consumer opinion of our products, which in turn could harm our customer and distributor relationships and cause the loss of sales. The success of our new product offerings and enhancements depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to: • accurately anticipate customer needs; • innovate and develop new products or product enhancements that meet these needs; • successfully commercialize new products or product enhancements in a timely manner; • price our products competitively; • manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and in a timely manner; and • differentiate our product offerings from those of our competitors. If we do not introduce new products or make enhancements to meet the changing needs of our customers in a timely manner, some of our products could be rendered obsolete, which could negatively impact our revenues, financial condition and operating results. Due to the high level of competition in our industry, we might fail to retain our customers and distributors, which would harm our financial condition and operating results. The business of marketing weight management and nutrition products is highly competitive and sensitive to the introduction of new products or weight management plans, including various prescription drugs, which may rapidly capture a significant share of the market. These market segments include numerous manufacturers, distributors, marketers, retailers and physicians that actively compete for the business of consumers both in the United States and abroad. In addition, we anticipate that we will be subject to increasing competition in the future from sellers that utilize electronic commerce. Some of these competitors have longer operating histories, 28 significantly greater financial, technical, product development, marketing and sales resources, greater name recognition, larger established customer bases and better-developed distribution channels than we do. Our present or future competitors may be able to develop products that are comparable or superior to those we offer, adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies, evolving industry trends and standards or customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we do. For example, if our competitors develop other diet or weight loss treatments that prove to be more effective than our products, demand for our products could be reduced. Accordingly, we may not be able to compete effectively in our markets and competition may intensify. We are also subject to significant competition for the recruitment of distributors from other network marketing organizations, including those that market weight management products, dietary and nutritional supplements and personal care products as well as other types of products. We compete for global customers and distributors with regard to weight management, nutritional supplement and personal care products. Our competitors include both direct selling companies such as NuSkin Enterprises, Nature’s Sunshine, Alticor/Amway, Melaleuca, Avon Products, Oriflame, and Mary Kay, as well as retail establishments such as Weight Watchers, Jenny Craig, General Nutrition Centers, Wal-Mart and retail pharmacies. In addition, because the industry in which we operate is not particularly capital intensive or otherwise subject to high barriers to entry, it is relatively easy for new competitors to emerge who will compete with us for our distributors and customers. In addition, the fact that our distributors may easily enter and exit our network marketing program contributes to the level of competition that we face. For example, a distributor can enter or exit our network marketing system with relative ease at any time without facing a significant investment or loss of capital because (1) we have a low upfront financial cost (generally $50 to $75) to become a Herbalife distributor, (2) we do not require any specific amount of time to work as a distributor, (3) we do not insist on any special training to be a distributor and (4) we do not prohibit a new distributor from working with another company. Our ability to remain competitive therefore depends, in significant part, on our success in recruiting and retaining distributors through an attractive compensation plan, the maintenance of an attractive product portfolio and other incentives. We cannot ensure that our programs for recruitment and retention of distributors will be successful, and if they are not, our financial condition and operating results would be harmed. We are affected by extensive laws, governmental regulations, administrative determinations, court decisions and similar constraints both domestically and abroad and our failure or our distributors’ failure to comply with these restraints could lead to the imposition of significant penalties or claims, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. In both domestic and foreign markets, the formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, importation, exportation, licensing, sale and storage of our products are affected by extensive laws, governmental regulations, administrative determinations, court decisions and similar constraints. Such laws, regulations and other constraints may exist at the federal, state or local levels in the United States and at all levels of government in foreign jurisdictions. There can be no assurance that we or our distributors are in compliance with all of these regulations. Our failure or our distributors’ failure to comply with these regulations or new regulations could lead to the imposition of significant penalties or claims and could negatively impact our business. In addition, the adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretations of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs or discontinuation of product sales and may negatively impact the marketing of our products, resulting in significant loss of sales revenues. For example, the Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, has announced plans to issue new guidance or regulations relating to low carbohydrate claims for foods, which could negatively impact our sales of such products. Governmental regulations in countries where we plan to commence or expand operations may prevent or delay entry into those markets. In addition, our ability to sustain satisfactory levels of sales in our markets is dependent in significant part on our ability to introduce additional products into such markets. However, governmental regulations in our markets, both domestic and international, can delay or prevent the introduction, or require the reformulation or withdrawal, of certain of our products. For example, during the third quarter of 1995, we received inquiries from certain governmental agencies within Germany and Portugal regarding our product, Thermojetics® Instant Herbal Beverage, relating to the caffeine content of the product and the status of the product as an “instant tea,” which was disfavored by regulators, versus a “beverage.” Although we initially suspended the 29 product sale in Germany and Portugal at the request of the regulators, we successfully reintroduced it once regulatory issues were satisfactorily resolved. Any such regulatory action, whether or not it results in a final determination adverse to us, could create negative publicity, with detrimental effects on the motivation and recruitment of distributors and, consequently, on sales. On March 7, 2003, the FDA proposed a new regulation to require current good manufacturing practices affecting the manufacture, packing, and holding of dietary supplements. The proposed regulation would establish standards to ensure that dietary supplements and dietary ingredients are not adulterated with contaminants or impurities, and are labeled to accurately reflect the active ingredients and other ingredients in the products. It also includes proposed requirements for designing and constructing physical plants, establishing quality control procedures, and testing manufactured dietary ingredients and dietary supplements, as well as proposed requirements for maintaining records and for handling consumer complaints related to cGMPs. We are evaluating this proposal with respect to its potential impact upon the various contract manufacturers that we use to manufacturer our products, some of whom might not meet the new standards. It is important to note that the proposed regulation, in an effort to limit disruption, includes a three-year phase-in for small businesses of any final regulation that is issued. This will mean that some of our contract manufacturers will not be fully impacted by the proposed regulation until at least 2008. However, the proposed regulation can be expected to result in additional costs and possibly the need to seek alternate suppliers. Our network marketing program could be found to be not in compliance with current or newly adopted laws or regulations in one or more markets, which could prevent us from conducting our business in these markets and harm our financial condition and operating results. Our network marketing program is subject to a number of federal and state regulations administered by the Federal Trade Commission and various state agencies in the United States as well as regulations on direct selling in foreign markets administered by foreign agencies. We are subject to the risk that, in one or more markets, our network marketing program could be found not to be in compliance with applicable law or regulations. Regulations applicable to network marketing organizations generally are directed at preventing fraudulent or deceptive schemes, often referred to as “pyramid” or “chain sales” schemes, by ensuring that product sales ultimately are made to consumers and that advancement within an organization is based on sales of the organization’s products rather than investments in the organization or other non-retail sales-related criteria. The regulatory requirements concerning network marketing programs do not include “bright line” rules and are inherently fact-based, and thus, even in jurisdictions where we believe that our network marketing program is in full compliance with applicable laws or regulations governing network marketing systems, we are subject to the risk that these laws or regulations or the enforcement or interpretation of these laws and regulations by governmental agencies or courts can change. The failure of our network marketing program to comply with current or newly adopted regulations could negatively impact our business in a particular market or in general. We are also subject to the risk of private party challenges to the legality of our network marketing program. The multi-level marketing programs of other companies have been successfully challenged in the past, and in a current lawsuit, allegations have been made challenging the legality of our network marketing program in Belgium. Test Ankoop-Test Achat, a Belgian consumer protection organization, sued Herbalife International Belgium, S.V., or HIB, on August 26, 2004, alleging that HIB violated Article 84 of the Belgian Fair Trade Practices Act by engaging in pyramid selling, i.e., establishing a network of professional or non-professional sales people who hope to make a profit more through the expansion of that network rather than through the sale of products to end-consumers. The plaintiff is seeking a payment of €25,000 (equal to approximately $30,000 as of December 31, 2005) per purported violation as well as costs of the trial. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our net sales in Belgium were approximately $15.9 million. Currently, the lawsuit is in the pleading stage. The plaintiffs filed their initial brief on September 27, 2005. An adverse judicial determination with respect to our network marketing program, or in proceedings not involving us directly but which challenge the legality of multi-level marketing systems, in Belgium or in any other market in which we operate, could negatively impact our business. 30 A substantial portion of our business is conducted in foreign markets, exposing us to the risks of trade or foreign exchange restrictions, increased tariffs, foreign currency fluctuations and similar risks associated with foreign operations. Approximately 82% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2005, were generated outside the United States, exposing our business to risks associated with foreign operations. For example, a foreign government may impose trade or foreign exchange restrictions or increased tariffs, which could negatively impact our operations. We are also exposed to risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations. For instance, purchases from suppliers are generally made in U.S. dollars while sales to distributors are generally made in local currencies. Accordingly, strengthening of the U.S. dollar versus a foreign currency could have a negative impact on us. Although we engage in transactions to protect against risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations, we cannot be certain any hedging activity will effectively reduce our exchange rate exposure. Our operations in some markets also may be adversely affected by political, economic and social instability in foreign countries. As we continue to focus on expanding our existing international operations, these and other risks associated with international operations may increase, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. Our expansion in China is subject to general, as well as industry-specific, economic, political and legal developments in China, and requires that we utilize a different business model from that we use elsewhere in the world. Our expansion of operations into China is subject to risks and uncertainties related to general economic, political and legal developments in China, among other things. The Chinese government exercises significant control over the Chinese economy, including but not limited to controlling capital investments, allocating resources, setting monetary policy, controlling foreign exchange and monitoring foreign exchange rates, implementing and overseeing tax regulations and providing preferential treatment to certain industry segments or companies. Accordingly, any adverse change in the Chinese economy, the Chinese legal system or Chinese governmental, economic or other policies could have a material adverse effect on our business in China. In August 2005, China published regulations governing direct selling (effective December 1, 2005) and prohibiting pyramid promotional schemes (effective November 1, 2005) and a number of administrative methods and proclamations were issued in proposal form in September 2005. When final, effective and applicable to us, these regulations will require us to use a business model different from that which we offer in other markets. To allow us to operate in advance of the effectiveness of these new regulations, as well as to operate once those regulations are implemented, we have created and introduced a model specifically for China. In China, we have Company-operated retail stores that sell through employed sales management personnel to customers and preferred customers. We provide training and certification procedures for sales personnel in China. Once the regulations are effective, we also expect to sell through independent direct sellers. These features are not common to the business model we employ elsewhere in the world. The direct selling regulations require us to apply for approval to conduct a direct selling enterprise in China. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain that license. Additionally, although certain regulations have been published, others are pending, and there is uncertainty regarding the interpretation and enforcement of such regulations. The regulatory environment in China is evolving, and officials in the Chinese government often exercise discretion in deciding how to interpret and apply regulations. As such, we have worked closely with governmental agencies and advisors in interpreting both the existing regulations and the new regulations. However, we cannot be certain that our business model will be deemed by national or local Chinese regulatory authorities to be compliant with these or other more general regulations. In the past, the Chinese government has rigorously monitored the direct selling market in China, and has taken serious action against companies that the government believed were engaging in activities they regarded to be in violation of applicable law, including shutting down their businesses and imposing substantial fines. As a result, there can be no guarantee that the Chinese government’s interpretation and application of the existing and new regulations will not negatively impact our business in China, result in regulatory investigations or lead to fines or penalties. Chinese regulations prevent persons who are not Chinese nationals from engaging in direct selling in China. We cannot guarantee that any of our distributors living outside of China or any of our independent sales representatives or employed sales management personnel in China will not engage in activities that violate our policies in this market and therefore result in regulatory action and adverse publicity. 31 As we expand operations in China, we anticipate that certain distributors will switch their focus from their home markets to that of China. As a result, we may see reduced distributor focus in Hong Kong, Taiwan and possibly other of our markets as Chinese nationals that are distributors shift their attention to China, and a resultant reduction in distributor growth, leadership and revenue in these other countries. If our operations in China are successful, we may experience rapid growth in China, and there can be no assurances that we will be able to successfully manage rapid expansion of manufacturing operations and a rapidly growing and dynamic sales force. There also can be no assurances that we will not experience difficulties in dealing with or taking employment related actions (such as hiring, terminations and salary administration, including social benefit payments) with respect to our employed sales representatives, particularly given the highly regulated nature of the employment relationship in China. If we are unable to effectively manage such growth and expansion of our retail stores, manufacturing operations or our employees, our government relations may be compromised and our operations in China may be harmed. Our China business model, particularly with regard to sales management responsibilities and remuneration, differs from our traditional business model. There is a risk that such changes and transitions may not be understood by our distributors or employees, may be viewed negatively by our distributors or employees, or may not be correctly utilized by our distributors or employees. If that is the case, our business could be negatively impacted. If we fail to further penetrate existing markets or successfully expand our business into new markets, then the growth in sales of our products, along with our operating results, could be negatively impacted and investors could lose all or part of their investment in our common shares. The success of our business is to a large extent contingent on our ability to continue to grow by entering new markets and further penetrating existing markets. Our ability to further penetrate existing markets in which we compete or to successfully expand our business into additional countries in Eastern Europe, Southeast Asia, South America or elsewhere, to the extent we believe that we have identified attractive geographic expansion opportunities in the future, is subject to numerous factors, many of which are out of our control. In addition, government regulations in both our domestic and international markets can delay or prevent the introduction, or require the reformulation or withdrawal, of some of our products, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, our ability to increase market penetration in certain countries may be limited by the finite number of persons in a given country inclined to pursue a direct selling business opportunity. Moreover, our growth will depend upon improved training and other activities that enhance distributor retention in our markets. We cannot assure you that our efforts to increase our market penetration and distributor retention in existing markets will be successful. Thus, if we are unable to continue to expand into new markets or further penetrate existing markets, our operating results would suffer and the market value of our common shares could decline. Our contractual obligation to sell our products only through our Herbalife distributor network and to refrain from changing certain aspects of our marketing plan may limit our growth. In connection with the Acquisition, we entered into an agreement with our distributors that provided assurances that the change in ownership of our Company would not negatively affect certain aspects of their business. Through this agreement, we have committed to our distributors that we will not sell Herbalife products through any distribution channel other than our network of independent Herbalife distributors. Thus, we are contractually prohibited from expanding our business by selling Herbalife products through other distribution channels that may be available to our competitors, such as over the internet, through wholesale sales, by establishing retail stores or through mail order systems. Since this is an ongoing or open-ended commitment, there can be no assurance that we will be able to take advantage of innovative new distribution channels that are developed in the future. In addition, our agreement with our distributors provides that we will not change certain aspects of our marketing plan without the consent of a specified percentage of our distributors. For example, our agreement with our distributors provides that we may increase, but not decrease, the discount percentages available to our distributors for the purchase of products or the applicable royalty override percentages, including roll-ups, and 32 production and other bonus percentages available to our distributors at various qualification levels within our distributor hierarchy. We may not modify the eligibility or qualification criteria for these discounts, royalty overrides and production and other bonuses unless we do so in a manner to make eligibility and/or qualification easier than under the applicable criteria in effect as of the date of the agreement. Our agreement with our distributors further provides that we may not vary the criteria for qualification for each distributor tier within our distributor hierarchy, unless we do so in such a way so as to make qualification easier. Although we reserved the right to make these changes to our marketing plan without the consent of our distributors in the event that changes are required by applicable law or are necessary in our reasonable business judgment to account for specific local market or currency conditions to achieve a reasonable profit on operations, there can be no assurance that our agreement with our distributors will not restrict our ability to adapt our marketing plan to the evolving requirements of the markets in which we operate. As a result, our growth, and the potential of growth in the value of your investment in our common shares, may be limited. We depend on the integrity and reliability of our information technology infrastructure, and any related inadequacies may result in substantial interruptions to our business. Our ability to timely provide products to our distributors and their customers, and services to our distributors, depends on the integrity of our information technology system, which we are in the process of upgrading, including the reliability of software and services supplied by our vendors. As part of this upgrade, we have invested approximately $42.3 million as of December 31, 2005. We intend to invest an additional $22.2 million through December 31, 2006. We are implementing an Oracle enterprise-wide technology solution, a scalable and stable open architecture platform, to enhance our and our distributors’ efficiency and productivity. In addition, we are upgrading our internet-based marketing and distributor services platform, MyHerbalife.com. We expect these initiatives to be substantially complete by 2008. The most important aspect of our information technology infrastructure is the system through which we record and track distributor sales, volume points, royalty overrides, bonuses and other incentives. We have encountered, and may encounter in the future, errors in our software or our enterprise network, or inadequacies in the software and services supplied by our vendors, although to date none of these errors or inadequacies has had a meaningful negative impact on our business. Any such errors or inadequacies that we may encounter in the future may result in substantial interruptions to our services and may damage our relationships with, or cause us to lose, our distributors if the errors or inadequacies impair our ability to track sales and pay royalty overrides, bonuses and other incentives, which would harm our financial condition and operating results. Such errors may be expensive or difficult to correct in a timely manner, and we may have little or no control over whether any inadequacies in software or services supplied to us by third parties are corrected, if at all. Since we rely on independent third parties for the manufacture and supply of our products, if these third parties fail to reliably supply products to us at required levels of quality, then our financial condition and operating results would be harmed. All of our products are manufactured by outside companies, except for a small amount of products manufactured in our own manufacturing facility in China. We cannot assure you that our outside manufacturers will continue to reliably supply products to us at the levels of quality, or the quantities, we require, especially after the FDA imposes cGMPs regulations. Our supply contracts generally have a two-year term. Except for force majeure events, such as natural disasters and other acts of God, and non-performance by Herbalife, our manufacturers generally cannot unilaterally terminate these contracts. These contracts can generally be extended by us at the end of the relevant time period and we have exercised this right in the past. Globally we have over 40 suppliers of our products. For our major products, we have both primary and secondary suppliers. Our major suppliers include Nature’s Bounty for protein powders, Fine Foods (Italy) for protein powders and nutritional supplements, PharmaChem Labs for teas and Niteworkstm and JB Labs for fiber. In the event any of our third-party manufacturers were to become unable or unwilling to continue to provide us with products in required volumes and at suitable quality levels, we would be required to identify and obtain acceptable replacement manufacturing sources. There is no assurance that we would 33 be able to obtain alternative manufacturing sources on a timely basis. An extended interruption in the supply of products would result in the loss of sales. In addition, any actual or perceived degradation of product quality as a result of reliance on third party manufacturers may have an adverse effect on sales or result in increased product returns and buybacks. If we fail to protect our trademarks and tradenames, then our ability to compete could be negatively affected, which would harm our financial condition and operating results. The market for our products depends to a significant extent upon the goodwill associated with our trademark and tradenames. We own, or have licenses to use, the material trademark and tradename rights used in connection with the packaging, marketing and distribution of our products in the markets where those products are sold. Therefore, trademark and tradename protection is important to our business. Although most of our trademarks are registered in the United States and in certain foreign countries in which we operate, we may not be successful in asserting trademark or tradename protection. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The loss or infringement of our trademarks or tradenames could impair the goodwill associated with our brands and harm our reputation, which would harm our financial condition and operating results. Unlike in most of the other markets in which we operate, limited protection of intellectual property is available under Chinese law. Accordingly, we face an increased risk in China that unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain or use our trademarks, copyrights, product formulations or other intellectual property. Further, since Chinese commercial law is relatively undeveloped, we may have limited legal recourse in the event we encounter significant difficulties with intellectual property theft or infringement. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately protect our product formulations or other intellectual property. If our distributors fail to comply with labeling laws, then our financial condition and operating results would be harmed. Although the physical labeling of our products is not within the control of our independent distributors, our distributors must nevertheless advertise our products in compliance with the extensive regulations that exist in certain jurisdictions, such as the United States, which considers product advertising to be labeling for regulatory purposes. Our products are sold principally as foods, dietary supplements and cosmetics and are subject to rigorous FDA and related legal regimens limiting the types of therapeutic claims that can be made for our products. The treatment or cure of disease, for example, is not a permitted claim for these products. While we train and attempt to monitor our distributors’ marketing materials, we cannot ensure that all such materials comply with bans on therapeutic claims. If our distributors fail to comply with these restrictions, then we and our distributors could be subjected to claims, financial penalties, mandatory product recalls or relabeling requirements, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. Although we expect that our responsibility for the actions of our independent distributors in such an instance would be dependent on a determination that we either controlled or condoned a non-compliant advertising practice, there can be no assurance that we could not be held responsible for the actions of our independent distributors. If our intellectual property is not adequate to provide us with a competitive advantage or to prevent competitors from replicating our products, or if we infringe the intellectual property rights of others, then our financial condition and operating results would be harmed. Our future success and ability to compete depend upon our ability to timely produce innovative products and product enhancements that motivate our distributors and customers, which we attempt to protect under a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions. However, our products are generally not patented domestically or abroad, and the legal protections afforded by our common law and contractual proprietary rights in our products provide only limited protection and may be time-consuming and expensive to enforce and/or maintain. Further, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third 34 parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our proprietary rights or from independently developing non-infringing products that are competitive with, equivalent to and/or superior to our products. Additionally, third parties may claim that products we have independently developed infringe upon their intellectual property rights. For example, in two related lawsuits that are currently pending in California, Unither Pharma, Inc. and others are alleging that sales by Herbalife International of (1) its Niteworkstm and Prelox Blue products and (2) its former products Woman’s Advantage with DHEA and Optimum Performance infringe on patents that are licensed to or owned by those parties, and are seeking unspecified damages, attorneys’ fees and injunctive relief from the Company. Although we believe that we have meritorious defenses to, and are vigorously defending against, these allegations, there can be no assurance that one or more of our products will not be found to infringe upon the intellectual property rights of these parties or others. Monitoring infringement and/or misappropriation of intellectual property can be difficult and expensive, and we may not be able to detect any infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights. Even if we do detect infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights, litigation to enforce these rights could cause us to divert financial and other resources away from our business operations. Further, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Since one of our products constitutes a significant portion of our retail sales, significant decreases in consumer demand for this product or our failure to produce a suitable replacement should we cease offering it would harm our financial condition and operating results. Our Formula 1 meal replacement product constitutes a significant portion of our sales, accounting for approximately 27%, 22%, and 23% of retail sales for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. If consumer demand for this product decreases significantly or we cease offering this product without a suitable replacement, then our financial condition and operating results would be harmed. If we lose the services of members of our senior management team, then our financial condition and operating results would be harmed. We depend on the continued services of our Chief Executive Officer, Michael O. Johnson, and our current senior management team and the relationships that they have developed with our senior distributor leadership, especially in light of the high level of turnover in our former senior management team, and the resulting need to re-establish good working relationships with our senior distributor leadership, after the death of our founder in May of 2000. Although we have entered into employment agreements with many members of our senior management team, and do not believe that any of them are planning to leave or retire in the near term, we cannot assure you that our senior managers will remain with us. The loss or departure of any member of our senior management team could negatively impact our distributor relations and operating results. If any of these executives do not remain with us, our business could suffer. The loss of such key personnel could negatively impact our ability to implement our business strategy, and our continued success will also be dependent upon our ability to retain existing, and attract additional, qualified personnel to meet our needs. We currently do not maintain “key person” life insurance with respect to our senior management team. The covenants in our existing indebtedness limit our discretion with respect to certain business matters, which could limit our ability to pursue certain strategic objectives and in turn harm our financial condition and operating results. Our 91/2% Notes and senior credit facility contain numerous financial and operating covenants that restrict our and our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • pay dividends, redeem share capital or capital stock and make other restricted payments and investments; • incur additional debt or issue preferred shares; • allow the imposition of dividend or other distribution restrictions on our subsidiaries; • create liens on our and our subsidiaries’ assets; 35 • engage in transactions with affiliates; • guarantee other indebtedness; and • merge, consolidate or sell all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries. In addition, our senior credit facility requires us to meet certain financial ratios and financial conditions. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default causing all amounts to become due and payable under our outstanding notes and/or the senior credit facility, which is secured by substantially all of our assets, which the lenders thereunder could proceed to foreclose against. If we do not comply with transfer pricing and similar tax regulations, then we may be subjected to additional taxes, interest and penalties in material amounts, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. As a multinational corporation, in many countries including the United States, we are subject to transfer pricing and other tax regulations designed to ensure that our intercompany transactions are consummated at prices that have not been manipulated to produce a desired tax result, that appropriate levels of income are reported as earned by our United States or local entities, and that we are taxed appropriately on such transactions. In addition, our operations are subject to regulations designed to ensure that appropriate levels of customs duties are assessed on the importation of our products. We are currently subject to pending or proposed audits that are at various levels of review, assessment or appeal in a number of jurisdictions involving transfer pricing issues, income taxes, customs duties, value added taxes, withholding taxes, sales and use and other taxes and related interest and penalties in material amounts. In some circumstances, additional taxes, interest and penalties have been assessed and we will be required to pay the assessments or litigate to reverse the assessments. We have reserved in the consolidated financial statements an amount that we believe represents the most likely outcome of the resolution of these disputes, but if we are incorrect in our assessment we may have to pay the full amount asserted. Ultimate resolution of these matters may take several years, and the outcome is uncertain. If the United States Internal Revenue Service or the taxing authorities of any other jurisdiction were to successfully challenge our transfer pricing practices, we could become subject to higher taxes and our earnings would be adversely affected. We may be held responsible for certain taxes or assessments relating to the activities of our distributors, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. Our distributors are subject to taxation, and in some instances, legislation or governmental agencies impose an obligation on us to collect taxes, such as value added taxes, and to maintain appropriate records. In addition, we are subject to the risk in some jurisdictions of being responsible for social security and similar taxes with respect to our distributors. In the event that local laws and regulations or the interpretation of local laws and regulations change to require us to treat our independent distributors as employees, or that our distributors are deemed by local regulatory authorities in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate to be our employees rather than independent contractors under existing laws and interpretations, we may be held responsible for social security and related taxes in those jurisdictions, plus any related assessments and penalties, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. We may incur material product liability claims, which could increase our costs and harm our financial condition and operating results. Our products consist of herbs, vitamins and minerals and other ingredients that are classified as foods or dietary supplements and are not subject to pre-market regulatory approval in the United States. Our products could contain contaminated substances, and some of our products contain innovative ingredients that do not have long histories of human consumption. We generally do not conduct or sponsor clinical studies for our products and previously unknown adverse reactions resulting from human consumption of these ingredients could occur. As a marketer of dietary and nutritional supplements and other products that are ingested by consumers or applied to their bodies, we have been, and may again be, subjected to various product liability claims, including that the products contain contaminants, the products include inadequate instructions as to their uses, or the products include 36 inadequate warnings concerning side effects and interactions with other substances. It is possible that widespread product liability claims could increase our costs, and adversely affect our revenues and operating income. Moreover, liability claims arising from a serious adverse event may increase our costs through higher insurance premiums and deductibles, and may make it more difficult to secure adequate insurance coverage in the future. In addition, our product liability insurance may fail to cover future product liability claims, thereby requiring us to pay substantial monetary damages and adversely affecting our business. Finally, given the higher level of self-insured retentions that we have accepted under our current product liability insurance policies, which are as high as approximately $10 million, in certain cases we may be subject to the full amount of liability associated with any injuries, which could be substantial. Several years ago, a number of states restricted the sale of dietary supplements containing botanical sources of ephedrine alkaloids and on February 6, 2004, the FDA banned the use of such ephedrine alkaloids. Until late 2002, we had sold Thermojetics® original green herbal tablets, Thermojetics® green herbal tablets and Thermojetics® gold herbal tablets, all of which contained ephedrine alkaloids. Accordingly, we run the risk of product liability claims related to the ingestion of ephedrine alkaloids contained in those products. Currently, we have been named as a defendant in product liability lawsuits seeking to link the ingestion of certain of the aforementioned products to subsequent alleged medical problems suffered by plaintiffs. Although we believe that we have meritorious defenses to the allegations contained in these lawsuits, and are vigorously defending these claims, there can be no assurance that we will prevail in our defense of any or all of these matters. A few of our shareholders will collectively exert significant influence over us and have the power to cause the approval or rejection of all shareholder actions and may take actions that conflict with your interests. As of February 1, 2006, affiliates of Whitney and Golden Gate Capital own approximately 41.5% of the voting power of our share capital. Accordingly, the Equity Sponsors collectively will have the power to exert significant influence over us and the approval or rejection of any matter on which the shareholders may vote, including the election of directors, amendment of our memorandum and articles of association and approval of significant corporate transactions and they will have significant control over our management and policies. This influence over corporate actions may also delay, deter or prevent transactions that would result in a change of control. Moreover, the Equity Sponsors may have interests that conflict with yours. We are subject to, among other things, the attestation requirements regarding the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. These requirements have increased our compliance costs, and failure to comply in a timely manner could adversely affect the value of our securities. We are required to comply with various corporate governance and financial reporting requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules and regulations adopted by the Commission, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and the NYSE. In particular, we are required to include management and auditor reports on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as part of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We expect to continue to spend significant amounts of time and money on compliance with these rules. Our failure to correct any noted weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting could result in the disclosure of material weaknesses which could have a material adverse effect upon the market value of our stock. Holders of our common shares may face difficulties in protecting their interests because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, by the Companies Law (2004 Revision) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in jurisdictions in the United States. Therefore, shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by our management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States, due to the comparatively less developed nature of Cayman Islands law in this area. 37 Unlike many jurisdictions in the United States, Cayman Islands law does not specifically provide for shareholder appraisal rights on a merger or consolidation of a company. This may make it more difficult for shareholders to assess the value of any consideration they may receive in a merger or consolidation or to require that the offer give shareholders additional consideration if they believe the consideration offered is insufficient. Shareholders of Cayman Islands exempted companies such as ourselves have no general rights under Cayman Islands law to inspect corporate records and accounts or to obtain copies of lists of our shareholders. Our directors have discretion under our articles of association to determine whether or not, and under what conditions, our corporate records may be inspected by our shareholders, but are not obliged to make them available to our shareholders. This may make it more difficult for you to obtain the information needed to establish any facts necessary for a shareholder motion or to solicit proxies from other shareholders in connection with a proxy contest. Subject to limited exceptions, under Cayman Islands law, a minority shareholder may not bring a derivative action against the board of directors. Maples and Calder, our Cayman Islands counsel, has informed us that they are not aware of any reported class action or derivative action having been brought in a Cayman Islands court. Provisions of our articles of association and Cayman Islands corporate law may impede a takeover or make it more difficult for shareholders to change the direction or management of the Company, which could adversely affect the value of our common shares and provide shareholders with less input into the management of the Company than they might otherwise have. Our articles of association permit our board of directors to issue preference shares from time to time, with such rights and preferences as they consider appropriate. Our board of directors could authorize the issuance of preference shares with terms and conditions and under circumstances that could have an effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction. In addition, our articles of association contain certain other provisions which could have an effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction or preventing or making it more difficult for shareholders to change the direction or management of our Company, including a classified board, the inability of shareholders to act by written consent, a limitation on the ability of shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders and advance notice provisions. As a result, our shareholders may have less input into the management of our Company than they might otherwise have if these provisions were not included in our articles of association. Unlike many jurisdictions in the United States, Cayman Islands law does not provide for mergers as that expression is understood under corporate law in the United States. However, Cayman Islands law does have statutory provisions that provide for the reconstruction and amalgamation of companies, which are commonly referred to in the Cayman Islands as “schemes of arrangement.” The procedural and legal requirements necessary to consummate these transactions are more rigorous and take longer to complete than the procedures typically required to consummate a merger in the United States. Under Cayman Islands law and practice, a scheme of arrangement in relation to a solvent Cayman Islands company must be approved at a shareholders’ meeting by each class of shareholders, in each case, by a majority of the number of holders of each class of a company’s shares that are present and voting (either in person or by proxy) at such a meeting, which holders must also represent 75% in value of such class issued that are present and voting (either in person or by proxy) at such meeting (excluding the shares owned by the parties to the scheme of arrangement). The convening of these meetings and the terms of the amalgamation must also be sanctioned by the Grand Court of the Cayman Islands. Although there is no requirement to seek the consent of the creditors of the parties involved in the scheme of arrangement, the Grand Court typically seeks to ensure that the creditors have consented to the transfer of their liabilities to the surviving entity or that the scheme of arrangement does not otherwise have a material adverse effect on the creditors’ interests. Furthermore, the Grand Court will only approve a scheme of arrangement if it is satisfied that: • the statutory provisions as to majority vote have been complied with; • the shareholders have been fairly represented at the meeting in question; • the scheme of arrangement is such as a businessman would reasonably approve; and 38 • the scheme of arrangement is not one that would more properly be sanctioned under some other provision of the Companies Law. There is uncertainty as to shareholders’ ability to enforce certain foreign civil liabilities in the Cayman Islands. We are incorporated as an exempted company with limited liability under the laws of the Cayman Islands. A material portion of our assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for our shareholders to enforce judgments against us or judgments obtained in U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States or any state of the United States. We have been advised by our Cayman Islands counsel, Maples and Calder, that although there is no statutory enforcement in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, the courts of the Cayman Islands will — based on the principle that a judgment by a competent foreign court imposes upon the judgment debtor an obligation to pay the sum for which judgment has been given — recognize and enforce a foreign judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction if such judgment is final, for a liquidated sum, not in respect of taxes or a fine or penalty, is not inconsistent with a Cayman Islands judgment in respect of the same matters, and was not obtained in a manner, and is not of a kind, the enforcement of which is contrary to the public policy of the Cayman Islands. There is doubt, however, as to whether the Grand Court of the Cayman Islands will (a) recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States or any state of the United States, or (b) in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, impose liabilities predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States or any state of the United States, on the grounds that such provisions are penal in nature. The Grand Court of the Cayman Islands may stay proceedings if concurrent proceedings are being brought elsewhere. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 