ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, which we believe are the material risks of our business. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in our SEC filings, including our financial statements and related notes. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. We are relying upon the safe harbor for all forward-looking statements in this Report, and any such statements made by or on behalf of the Company are qualified by reference to the following cautionary statements, as well as to those set forth elsewhere in this Report. Risks Related to our Business We recently received a non-approvable letter from the FDA for our NDA for faropenem medoxomil, our lead product candidate, and we are currently evaluating our development program for faropenem medoxomil and do not currently know if faropenem medoxomil will ever receive regulatory approval, which is necessary before it can be commercialized. If we do not receive regulatory approval for faropenem medoxomil and we are not able to commercialize faropenem medoxomil, we will not generate revenue for several years, if at all, and we may never generate sufficient revenue to achieve and sustain profitability. We need approval from the FDA prior to marketing our product candidates in the U.S. In December 2005, we submitted our first NDA to the FDA for use of faropenem medoxomil in four adult clinical indications. In October 2006, the FDA issued a non-approvable letter for all four indications in our NDA and recommended further clinical studies and microbiologic evaluation for all indications. We are in the planning stages of determining our next steps with respect to our faropenem medoxomil development program. Further clinical development of faropenem medoxomil for any indications will require us to complete additional and more extensive clinical trials, which will be costly and time consuming. The amount and timing of the increased costs related to our clinical trials is difficult to predict due to the uncertainty inherent in the timing of clinical trial initiations, the rate of patient enrollment and the detailed design of future trials. However, we expect that a minimum of two years will be required to complete additional clinical trials. If we continue our clinical development program for faropenem medoxomil, we may not obtain necessary approvals from the FDA even if our trials demonstrate the effectiveness of faropenem medoxomil for any indication. The data we collect from any additional clinical trials with larger patient populations may not demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to support regulatory approval of faropenem medoxomil, in which case we would experience potentially significant delays in, or be required to abandon, development of that product candidate. If we continue our clinical development program for faropenem medoxomil, we will have fewer resources to devote to the research and development of other potential product candidates and development stage programs. If we decide to terminate any further development of faropenem medoxomil, we will be dependent upon the success of the other product candidates in our pipeline or other compounds we may in-license and the size of the potential markets for such other product candidates may not be as significant as the potential markets for faropenem medoxomil. All of our other existing product candidates and development stage programs are in Phase I clinical development or preclinical development. Even if we obtain FDA approval for faropenem medoxomil, it may not cover all of the clinical indications for which we seek approval. Also, an approval might contain significant limitations with respect to conditions of use in the form of narrow indications, incomplete activity against key bacterial pathogens, warnings, precautions or contra-indications. We cannot predict if or when we might again seek regulatory review of faropenem medoxomil for any indication or of any of our other product candidates. The FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process and may either refuse to accept an application for substantive review or may conclude after review of our data that our application is insufficient to allow approval of a product candidate. If the FDA does not accept or approve our application, it may require that we conduct additional clinical, pre-clinical or manufacturing validation studies and submit that data before it will reconsider our application. Depending on the extent of these or any other studies, approval of any application 26 Table of Contents that we submit may be delayed by several years, or may require us to expend more resources than we have available. It is also possible that additional studies, if performed and completed, may not be considered sufficient by the FDA to approve our application for any particular indication for which we are seeking approval. If any of these outcomes occur, we may be forced to abandon our application for approval, which might cause us to cease operations. Our lead product candidate, faropenem medoxomil, has been in-licensed from another pharmaceutical company, Daiichi Asubio Pharma Co., Ltd., or Daiichi Asubio. A previous licensee, Bayer AG, or Bayer, completed extensive pre-clinical studies and Phase II and Phase III clinical trials for a particular dosage of faropenem medoxomil. We may rely on some of the data from these pre-clinical studies and clinical trials in a future application or submission to the FDA for approval to market faropenem medoxomil. Any problems with these previous pre-clinical studies or clinical trials, including problems with the design or statistical analysis of such pre-clinical studies or clinical trials, could cause our application for regulatory approval to be delayed or rejected, in which case we might need to conduct additional trials. Because of the termination of our collaboration with Forest Laboratories to develop and commercialize faropenem medoxomil, we plan to identify a new partner. If we do not obtain a new partner on acceptable terms, we likely will not be able to develop and commercialize faropenem medoxomil for adult indications and may not be able to develop faropenem medoxomil for pediatric indications or generate any future revenue from faropenem medoxomil. On February 7, 2007, we announced the termination of our February 2006 agreement with Forest Laboratories. Under the collaboration agreement, Forest Laboratories had been granted an exclusive sublicense for the development and sale of faropenem medoxomil for all indications in the U.S. and a right of first refusal to extend the territory to include Canada. In connection with this agreement, Forest Laboratories paid us a non-refundable, non-creditable license fee of $50 million and in March 2006 we received a $10 million development milestone payment. The agreement contemplated up to an additional $190 million in development and commercial milestones for both adult and pediatric indications, which were to be reduced by $25 million if we had exercised our option to directly market and promote faropenem medoxomil directly to pediatricians. These milestone payments were largely dependent on the acceptance of additional NDA filings, FDA approvals and achieving certain sales levels of adult and pediatric formulations of faropenem medoxomil. As a result of the termination we will reacquire all rights to faropenem medoxomil previously granted to Forest Laboratories. We will seek another partner or partners, at an appropriate time, to assist us in the development and commercialization of faropenem medoxomil. We face competition in our search for partners with whom we may collaborate. Further, faropenem medoxomil has previously been licensed to other licensees who have opted not to develop and commercialize the product. As a result, we may not be successful in finding another collaboration partner on acceptable terms, or at all, and any failure to obtain a new collaboration partner on acceptable terms may adversely affect faropenem medoxomil development, commercialization and potential future sales. Identifying a new partner and entering into a collaboration agreement with it or developing the necessary infrastructure to commercialize, market and sell faropenem medoxomil to pediatricians ourselves could cause delays in obtaining regulatory approvals of faropenem medoxomil and commercializing faropenem, which would negatively impact our business. If we obtain regulatory approval of faropenem medoxomil for pediatric indications and we choose to commercialize, market and sell faropenem medoxomil to pediatricians ourselves, we will be required to substantially increase our internal sales, distribution and marketing capabilities. The development of the infrastructure necessary to commercialize, market and sell faropenem medoxomil to pediatricians will require substantial resources and may divert the attention of our management and key personnel and negatively impact our other product development efforts. Further, our current capital resources may not be sufficient to fund and support this type of infrastructure. Moreover, we may not be able to hire a sales force that is sufficient in size or has adequate expertise. It is unusual for the FDA to approve a drug for pediatric use which has not been approved for adult use. As a result, in the event that we are unable to pursue further development of faropenem medoxomil for adult use, it may be difficult to obtain FDA approval for a pediatric indication. 27 Table of Contents If we fail to enter into new strategic collaborations, we may have to reduce or delay our rate of product development and commercialization and/or increase our expenditures. Our business model is based in part upon entering into strategic collaborations for discovery and/or development of some of our product candidates. Our strategy to develop and commercialize our products includes entering into various relationships with pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies to advance our programs. We may not be able to negotiate any of our collaborations on acceptable terms. If we are not able to establish collaborative arrangements, we may have to reduce or delay further development of some of our programs and/or increase our expenditures and undertake the development activities at our own expense. If we are not able to establish and maintain strategic collaborations on acceptable terms: • the development of our current or future product candidates may be reduced in scope, terminated or delayed; • our cash expenditures related to development of our current or future product candidates would increase significantly; • we may be required to hire additional employees or otherwise develop expertise, such as sales and marketing expertise, for which we have not budgeted; • we will bear all of the risk related to the development of each of our current and future product candidates; and • we may be unable to meet demand for any future products that we may develop. In that event, we would likely be required to limit the size or scope of one or more of our programs. Securing a strategic partner to develop and commercialize our product candidates may require us to relinquish valuable rights and will render us dependent on the efforts of any future collaboration partners, over which we would have limited control, and if our collaborations are unsuccessful, our potential to develop and commercialize product candidates and to generate future revenue from our product candidates would be significantly reduced. In order to secure a strategic partner to develop and commercialize our product candidate, we may be required to relinquish valuable rights to our potential products or proprietary technologies. If we are able to identify and reach agreement with collaborators for our product candidates, those relationships will be subject to a number of risks, including: • collaborators may not pursue further development and commercialization of compounds resulting from collaborations or may elect not to renew research and development programs; • collaborators may delay clinical trials, under fund a clinical trial program, stop a clinical trial or abandon a product candidate, repeat or conduct new clinical trials, or require the development of a new formulation of a product candidate for clinical testing; • a collaborator with marketing and distribution rights to one or more of our product candidates may not commit sufficient resources to the marketing and distribution of any future products, limiting our potential revenues from the commercialization of these products; • disputes may arise delaying or terminating the research, development or commercialization of our product candidates, or result in significant litigation or arbitration; • strategic partners could develop drugs which compete with our future products, if any; • strategic partners could turn their focus away from anti-infective products and community respiratory tract infection indications; • strategic partners could fail to effectively manage manufacturing relationships with suppliers; • contracts with strategic partners may not provide significant protection or may be difficult to enforce if a strategic partner fails to perform; and 28 Table of Contents • if an arrangement with a strategic partner expires or is terminated, we may not be able to replace it or the terms on which we replace it may be unacceptable. If as a result of our financial condition or other factors we enter into a strategic collaboration while a drug candidate program is in early preclinical development, we may not generate as much near- or longer-term revenue from such program as we could have generated if we had the resources to further independently develop such program. In addition, if we raise additional funds through licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our potential products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. The type of trials that the FDA is recommending for faropenem medoxomil will be novel in design without historical formal guidance and may require alternative dosing regimens. In the non-approval letter we received in October 2006, the FDA indicated that it recommends conducting additional large-scale clinical trials at alternate doses for all indications covered by our NDA, including superiority designed studies, which will be costly, difficult and time consuming to conduct. All efficacy studies upon which our NDA was based were designed as non-inferiority studies. In addition, dosages used in these studies were determined by the prior licensee of faropenem medoxomil, Bayer. Historically, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities have not required superiority studies, such as placebo-controlled clinical trials, for approval of antibiotics but instead have relied on non-inferiority studies. In a non-inferiority study, a drug candidate is compared with an approved antibiotic and it must be shown that the drug product candidate is not less effective than the approved treatment. In a superiority study, a drug candidate is compared either with an approved antibiotic treatment or placebo and it must be shown that the drug candidate is more effective than the approved treatment or placebo, as the case may be. Although the FDA has indicated that superiority designed trials will be required for some indications, there is no existing formal guidance on the design of these studies and we are uncertain at this time as to exactly what types of trials will be required. Conducting placebo-controlled trials for antibiotics can be time consuming and expensive and can be difficult to complete. Institutional review boards may not grant approval for placebo-controlled trials because of ethical concerns about denying some participating patients access to any antibiotic therapy during the course of the trial. It may be difficult to enroll patients in placebo-controlled trials even if institutional review board approval is obtained because certain patients would receive no therapy. Although we are currently conducting a placebo-controlled trial for acute exacerbation of chronic bronchitis, we have not completed any placebo-controlled trials for faropenem medoxomil for any indications. We may not be able to show a statistically significant advantage over placebo or another control treatment in any trials that we are able to complete. These factors could delay for several years or ultimately prevent commercialization of faropenem medoxomil for any indications for which the FDA requires superiority designed trials. Demonstration of superiority of a drug candidate over an approved antibiotic is likely to be difficult and require a large number of patients because clinical success rates for most approved antibiotics that would serve as appropriate comparisons are high, typically 70% to 90%. If we choose, after discussion with the FDA, to pursue additional clinical trials in an effort to gain approval from the FDA for faropenem medoxomil, then our ongoing development programs for faropenem medoxomil will be lengthy and expensive. The amount of time and cost associated with these trials are difficult to predict due to the uncertainty inherent in the timing of clinical trial initiations, the rate of patient enrollment and details of future trial designs. In addition, the guidance we receive from the FDA in future meetings with them will influence the number, size and duration of planned and unplanned trials. Even if clinical trials show our product candidates to be safe and effective in treating their target conditions, we do not expect to be able to record commercial sales of any of our product candidates for at least two or three years. Even if we conduct these trials in accordance with FDA recommendations and achieve protocol defined end points, faropenem medoxomil may not be approved. 29 Table of Contents Further delays in clinical testing or approval could result in increased costs to us and delay our ability to generate revenue. We may experience delays in clinical testing of our product candidates. We currently plan to limit our faropenem medoxomil adult clinical trial activities to completion of the ongoing Phase III placebo-controlled clinical trial for treatment of acute exacerbation of chronic bronchitis until we have a collaboration partner for the faropenem medoxomil adult program. Even in this trial, we temporarily stopped enrollment to exclude Ketek®. We had included Ketek as a comparator in the clinical trial to generate secondary data points versus a product projected to be a competitor product to faropenem. We based our decision to exclude Ketek on the findings of a joint Advisory Meeting of the FDA’s Anti-Infective Drug and Drug Safety and Risk Management committees held on December 14 and 15, 2006 that recommended to the FDA that the risks of using Ketek outweigh the benefits of using the drug for treatment of acute exacerbation of chronic bronchitis. This recommendation was adopted by the FDA on February 12, 2007. Following required communication with investigational review boards overseeing the clinical trial sites, we have re-initiated this trial without the Ketek comparator arm. We do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin on time, will need to be redesigned or will be completed on schedule, if at all. Clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in obtaining regulatory approval to commence a trial, in reaching agreement on acceptable clinical trial terms with prospective sites, in obtaining institutional review board or ministry of health approval at each site or country in which we seek to conduct clinical trials, in recruiting patients to participate in a trial, or in obtaining sufficient supplies of clinical trial materials. Many factors affect patient enrollment, including the size and nature of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial, the design of the clinical trial, competing clinical trials, clinicians’ and patients’ perceptions as to the potential advantages of the drug being studied in relation to other available therapies, including any new drugs that may be approved for the indications we are investigating, and whether the clinical trial design involves comparison to placebo. Our antibiotics treat bacterial infections which tend to be seasonal in nature. As a result, during certain times of the year, it is difficult to find patients to enroll in our trials. Prescribing physicians would also face ethical issues associated with enrolling patients in clinical trials of our product candidates over existing antibiotics that have established safety and efficacy profiles or in placebo-controlled trials. These ethical issues may be even more pronounced in conducting clinical trials of antibiotics in children. Any delays in completing our clinical trials will increase our costs, slow down our product development and approval process and delay our ability to generate revenue or seek approval of faropenem medoxomil. The success of our current business strategy will depend in part on our ability to obtain FDA approval of faropenem medoxomil for pediatric use and, if FDA approval is obtained, to successfully market an oral liquid formulation for the pediatric market. The development of faropenem medoxomil for pediatric use is an important part of our current business strategy. We have developed a prototype oral liquid formulation, completed a Phase II trial in acute otitis media (middle ear infection) and are considering conducting future studies in acute otitis media and tonsillitis/pharyngitis. Our ability to successfully develop and market this product candidate for pediatric use is subject to various risks, including the following: • It is unusual for the FDA to approve a drug for pediatric use that has not been approved for adult use. As a result, in the event that we abandon further development of faropenem medoxomil for adult use, it may be difficult to obtain FDA approval for a pediatric indication. • Pre-clinical testing and clinical trials are protracted, expensive and uncertain processes. It may take us and any future collaboration partner several years to complete the testing and trials and failure can occur at any stage of the process. Success in pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful. These risks are potentially more pronounced in clinical tests involving children. • We have completed only one Phase II clinical trial in children with acute otitis media to date. A clinical trial conducted by Bayer for tonsillitis/pharyngitis in adults did not meet its primary endpoint. 30 Table of Contents • Any NDA or other marketing authorization applications that we may file might be denied by the FDA and analogous foreign regulators. • Any regulatory approval we ultimately obtain may be limited or subject to post-approval commitments that render the product not commercially viable. • This product candidate, even if found to be safe and effective, might be difficult to develop into a commercially viable drug or to manufacture on a large scale, It may also prove to be economically unfeasible to market commercially. • Competitors may develop and market superior drugs or be more effective in marketing equivalent drugs. • Even if this product candidate is successfully developed and effectively marketed, the size of the market may be smaller than expected or may decrease over time, such that our sales revenue is less than initially contemplated. Any failure to obtain regulatory approval of faropenem medoxomil for pediatric use would have a material and adverse impact on our ability to successfully execute our current business strategy and would significantly reduce the revenues that we might generate from faropenem medoxomil. All of the Phase III clinical trials of faropenem medoxomil included in our NDA filed in December 2005 were conducted using a 300 mg, twice per day, dose. We expect that future clinical trials will be conducted at the alternate 600 mg, twice per day, dose. If the incidence of adverse events from use of faropenem medoxomil at the 600 mg, twice per day dose is significantly higher than that observed in completed clinical studies at the 300 mg, twice per day we may not be able to generate future revenue from faropenem medoxomil. The Phase III clinical trials included in our December 2005 NDA were all conducted using a 300 mg, twice per day, dose. The dose was selected by the previous licensee of faropenem. We expect that future clinical trials will be conducted at the alternate 600 mg, twice per day, dose. In January 2006, we initiated a Phase III clinical trial for the acute exacerbation of chronic bronchitis indication using the higher dose. We have previously evaluated the potential for adverse events with the 600 mg, twice per day, dose in a Phase I study and a Phase II study conducted in 2005. In the Phase I study, the 600 mg, twice per day, dose was directly compared to a 300 mg, twice per day, dose, both administered for seven days. In the Phase II study, a 600 mg, twice per day, dose was compared to a 300 mg, twice per day, dose seven day treatment course in patients with acute bacterial sinusitis. In both trials, the adverse events were similar in both type and frequency. If there is an increased level of adverse events observed for faropenem medoxomil 600mg, twice per day as compared to 300mg twice per day, it will reduce future potential product revenue from faropenem medoxomil. We have limited experience in acquiring or in-licensing product candidates, and integrating third parties’ products, businesses and technologies into our current infrastructure. If we determine that future acquisition or in-licensing opportunities are desirable and do not successfully execute on and integrate such targets, we may incur costs and disruptions to our business and we may be unable to grow our business. A key element of our strategy is to commercialize a portfolio of new anti-infective products in addition to faropenem medoxomil. These efforts include potential licensing and acquisition transactions. To date, we have in-licensed rights to each of our product candidates. In addition to our internal drug development efforts, we may seek to expand our product pipeline and technologies by acquiring or in-licensing products, businesses or technologies that we believe are a strategic fit with our business and complement our existing product candidates, research programs and technologies. If we decide not to pursue the development of faropenem medoxomil for any or all indications, then we may devote substantial additional time and energy to the pursuit of strategic opportunities, including potential licensing and acquisition transactions. These transactions may include new anti-infective products or product 31 Table of Contents candidates as well as products or product candidates outside of the anti-infective area. The success of this strategy depends upon our ability to identify, select and acquire the right pharmaceutical product candidates and products on terms that are acceptable to us. Proposing, negotiating and implementing an economically viable product acquisition or license is a lengthy and complex process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, may compete with us for the acquisition or license of product candidates and approved products. We may not be able to acquire or license the rights to additional product candidates and approved products on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. Any product candidate we license or acquire may require additional development efforts prior to commercial sale, including extensive clinical testing and approval by the FDA and applicable foreign regulatory authorities. All product candidates are prone to the risks of failure inherent in pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that the product candidate will not be shown to be sufficiently safe and effective for approval by regulatory authorities. In addition, we cannot ensure that any such products that are approved will be manufactured or produced economically, successfully commercialized or widely accepted in the marketplace. In addition, future acquisitions may entail numerous operational and financial risks including: • exposure to unknown liabilities; • disruption of our business and diversion of our management’s time and attention to the development of acquired products or technologies; • incurrence of substantial debt or dilutive issuances of securities to pay for acquisitions; • higher than expected acquisition and integration costs; • difficulties in and costs of combining the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses with our operations and personnel; • impairment of relationships with key suppliers or customers of any acquired businesses due to changes in management and ownership; and • inability to retain key employees of any acquired businesses. Finally, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions or in-licensing opportunities that are never completed or fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such efforts. Our drug discovery approach and technologies and our product candidates other than faropenem medoxomil are unproven and in very early stages of development, which may not allow us to establish or maintain a clinical development pipeline or successful collaborations, and may never result in the discovery or development of commercially viable products. Because we do not currently know when or if we will continue clinical development of faropenem medoxomil for certain adult indications or any other indications, we are more dependent on the potential success of our internal discovery research programs and product candidates other than faropenem medoxomil. Our only other existing product candidate, REP8839, is in Phase I clinical development. As a significant part of our growth strategy, we intend to develop and commercialize additional products and product candidates through our discovery research program. A significant portion of the research that we are conducting involves new and unproven technologies, and may not result in the discovery or development of commercially viable products. Research programs to identify new disease targets and product candidates require substantial technical, financial and human resources whether or not we ultimately identify any candidates. Our research programs may initially show promise in identifying potential product candidates, yet fail to yield product candidates for clinical development. The process of successfully discovering product candidates is expensive, time-consuming and unpredictable, and the historical rate of failure for drug candidates is extremely high. Data from our current research programs may not support the clinical development of our lead compounds or other compounds from these programs, and we may not identify any compounds suitable for recommendation for clinical development. Moreover, any compounds we recommend for clinical development may not be 32 Table of Contents effective or safe for their designated use, which would prevent their advancement into clinical trials and impede our ability to maintain or expand our clinical development pipeline. If we are unable to identify new product candidates or advance our lead compounds into clinical development, we may not be able to establish or maintain a clinical development pipeline or generate product revenue. Our ability to identify new compounds and advance them into clinical development also depends upon our ability to fund our research and development operations, and we cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If we continue our clinical development program for faropenem medoxomil for certain adult indications or any other indications we will have fewer resources to devote to the further research and development of other product candidates, such as REP8839, or potential product candidates identified through our discovery research program. There is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully advance any product candidates identified through our discovery research program into clinical trials or successfully develop any product candidate we advance into clinical trials for commercial sale. In addition, the size of the potential markets for such other product candidates may not be as attractive as the potential markets for faropenem medoxomil. If we are unable to develop suitable potential product candidates through internal research programs or are not able to advance the development of our early stage product candidates such as REP8839, our business will suffer and we may be unable to grow our business. We are at an early stage of development as a company, with no current sources of revenue, and we may never generate future revenue or become profitable. We are a biopharmaceutical company that emerged from the development stage in February 2006 and have a limited operating history. Currently, we have no products approved for commercial sale and, to date, we have not generated any revenue from product sales. Our ability to generate revenue depends heavily on: • our ability to obtain a new collaboration partner for faropenem medoxomil on acceptable terms; • obtaining U.S. and foreign regulatory approvals for our lead product candidate, faropenem medoxomil; • successfully developing and securing regulatory approval for our product candidate, REP8839; and • successfully commercializing any product candidates for which we receive FDA approval. Our existing product candidates will require extensive additional clinical evaluation, regulatory approval, significant marketing efforts and substantial investment before they can provide us with any revenue. If we do not receive regulatory approval for and successfully commercialize faropenem medoxomil, we will be unable to generate any royalty revenue from product sales for many years, if at all. If we are unable to generate revenue, we will not become profitable, and we may be unable to continue our operations. We have incurred significant operating losses since inception and anticipate that we will incur continued losses for the foreseeable future. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception in 2000. At December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $117 million. We have generated no revenue from product sales to date. We have funded our operations to date principally from the sale of our securities and from payments by Forest Laboratories under our former collaboration agreement. Due to the October 2006 FDA non-approval letter for our December 2005 NDA for faropenem medoxomil and the termination of our Forest Laboratories collaboration agreement announced in February 2007, our prospects for near term future revenues are substantially uncertain. We expect to continue to incur substantial additional operating losses for the next several years as we pursue our clinical trials and research and development efforts. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing and commercializing antibiotics, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses. We may never have any significant future revenue or become profitable. 33 Table of Contents If we fail to obtain additional financing, we may be unable to complete the development and commercialization of faropenem medoxomil and other product candidates, or continue our research and development programs. Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since inception. We currently expect to spend substantial amounts to: • complete the clinical development of faropenem medoxomil and REP8839; • license or acquire additional product candidates; • launch and commercialize any product candidates for which we receive regulatory approval, including building our own sales force to address certain markets; and • continue our research and development programs. We do not expect that our current capital resources will be sufficient to fund the complete development of our faropenem medoxomil and REP8839 product candidates and any product candidates generated from our discovery research program. To date, our sources of cash have been limited primarily to the proceeds from the sale of our securities and payments by Forest Laboratories under our former collaboration agreement. Due to the termination of our Forest Laboratories collaboration agreement announced in February 2007, our prospects for near term future revenues are substantially uncertain. We currently intend to seek a new collaboration partner for faropenem medoxomil and use our cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and interest earned on these balances toward the funding necessary to support our planned activities. If we cannot find a new collaboration partner on acceptable terms or if the funds provided from existing resources are insufficient to satisfy our future capital needs, or if we develop, in-license or acquire additional products or product candidates or pursue additional applications for our product candidates, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience significant dilution. Any debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, limitations on our ability to acquire or license intellectual property rights and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. If we are unable to raise additional capital when required or on acceptable terms, we may have to significantly delay, scale back or discontinue the development and/or commercialization of one or more of our product candidates. We also may be required to: • seek collaborators for our product candidates at an earlier stage than otherwise would be desirable and on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available; and • relinquish or license on unfavorable terms our rights to technologies or product candidates that we otherwise would seek to develop or commercialize ourselves. We have limited manufacturing capabilities and will depend on third parties to manufacture faropenem medoxomil and future products. If these manufacturers fail to meet our requirements and strict regulatory standards, we may be unable to develop or commercialize our products. We do not have the capability to manufacture commercial quantities of faropenem medoxomil drug substance. If we decide to pursue additional large scale clinical trials for faropenem medoxomil or if our other product candidates advance into full scale clinical trials, we may not have the capability to manufacture quantities of faropenem medoxomil or such other product candidates for our clinical trials. We originally engaged Nippon Soda and MEDA as our sole suppliers of faropenem medoxomil drug substance and faropenem medoxomil tablets, respectively. Pursuant to the terms of our former collaboration agreement with Forest Laboratories, Forest Laboratories had agreed to assume responsibility for supply chain management for faropenem medoxomil and entered into a direct relationship with both Nippon Soda and MEDA as its sole supplier of faropenem medoxomil drug substance. However, following termination of our agreement with Forest Laboratories, the Nippon Soda and MEDA obligations revert directly to us. We are contractually bound to purchase all of our requirements from these parties and we expect Nippon Soda and MEDA will be our and 34 Table of Contents a future collaboration partner’s sole suppliers of faropenem medoxomil drug substance and tablets for the foreseeable future. Nippon Soda and MEDA may terminate these supply agreements for a number of reasons, such as: • an uncured material breach of the supply agreement by us; • our liquidation or insolvency; or • in some circumstances, following a change of control. MEDA and Nippon Soda will be subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and corresponding state agencies for compliance with good manufacturing practices regulations, or cGMPs, and similar foreign standards. We do not have control over compliance by MEDA and Nippon Soda with these regulations and standards. Nippon Soda has only a single facility located in Nihongi, Japan that can readily manufacture commercial quantities of faropenem medoxomil. If that facility were to be damaged or destroyed, we would have no readily available source of supply. Nippon Soda has not yet manufactured faropenem medoxomil at commercial scale on a consistent basis, nor has Nippon Soda completed the manufacturing process validations that are part of the regulatory requirements prior to obtaining marketing approval for faropenem medoxomil. Reliance on a third party manufacturer entails risk to which we would not be subject if we manufactured products ourselves, including: • reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance; • delays or failure to manufacture sufficient quantities needed for clinical trials in accordance with our specifications or to deliver such quantities on the dates we require; • the possible breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party because of factors beyond our control; and • the possibility of termination or non-renewal of the agreement by the third party because of our breach of the manufacturing agreement or based on its own business priorities, and the non-approvable letter we recently received from the FDA for our NDA for faropenem medoxomil may adversely influence the business priorities of our current suppliers. Any of these factors could cause delay or suspension of clinical trials, regulatory submissions, required approvals or commercialization of faropenem medoxomil and our other product candidates under development, cause us to incur higher costs and could prevent us from commercializing our product candidates successfully. If we obtain regulatory approval for faropenem medoxomil and our contract manufacturers fail to deliver the required commercial quantities of bulk drug substance or finished product on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices and we are unable to find one or more replacement manufacturers capable of production at a substantially equivalent cost, in substantially equivalent volumes and quality, and on a timely basis, we would likely be unable to meet demand for faropenem medoxomil and we would lose potential revenue. It may take several years to establish an alternative source of supply for faropenem medoxomil and to have any such new source approved by the FDA, especially because faropenem medoxomil requires dedicated manufacturing facilities. If the FDA does not approve Nippon Soda’s facility, we may be unable to develop or commercialize faropenem medoxomil. We rely on Nippon Soda to manufacture faropenem medoxomil drug substance and currently have no plans to develop our own manufacturing facility. The facilities used by our contract manufacturer to manufacture our product candidates must be approved by the FDA. Nippon Soda’s facility has undergone its initial inspection by the FDA as part of the faropenem medoxomil NDA review. Although no 483 observations were noted by the FDA site inspector, if Nippon Soda cannot successfully manufacture material that conforms to our specifications and strict regulatory requirements, Nippon Soda will not be able to maintain FDA approval for its manufacturing facility. If the FDA does not maintain approval of this facility for the 35 Table of Contents manufacture of faropenem medoxomil, we may need to find alternative manufacturing facilities, which would result in significant delay of up to several years in obtaining approval for and manufacturing faropenem medoxomil. In addition, our contract manufacturer will be subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies for compliance with cGMPs and similar regulatory requirements. These regulations cover all aspects of the manufacturing, testing, quality control and record keeping relating to our product candidates. We do not have control over Nippon Soda’s compliance with these regulations and standards. Failure by Nippon Soda to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure to grant approval to market our product candidates, delays, suspension or withdrawals of approvals, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business. In addition, we have no control over Nippon Soda’s ability to maintain adequate quality control, quality assurance and qualified personnel. Failure by our contract manufacturer to comply with or maintain any of these standards could adversely affect our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for or market our product candidates. Any of our product candidates that are in clinical trials or that we advance into clinical trials are subject to extensive regulation, which can be costly and time consuming, cause unanticipated delays, or prevent the receipt of the required approvals to commercialize our product candidates. The clinical development, manufacturing, labeling, storage, record-keeping, advertising, promotion, export, marketing and distribution of any of our product candidates currently in clinical trials or that we advance into clinical trials are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA in the U.S. and by comparable governmental authorities in foreign markets. Currently, we are developing faropenem medoxomil for adult and pediatric use and we have commenced Phase I clinical testing of REP8839. In the U.S. and in many foreign jurisdictions, rigorous pre-clinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory review process must be successfully completed before a new drug can be sold. Satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. Clinical testing is expensive, can take many years to complete and its outcome is uncertain. Failure can occur at any time during the clinical trial process. The results of pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials of our product candidates may not be predictive of the results of later-stage clinical trials. Product candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed through initial clinical testing. The time required to obtain approval by the FDA is unpredictable but typically takes many years following the commencement of clinical trials, depending upon numerous factors. In addition, approval policies, regulations, or the type and amount of clinical data necessary to gain approval may change. We have not obtained regulatory approval for any product candidate. Our product candidates may fail to receive regulatory approval for many reasons, including the following: • we may be unable to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities that a product candidate is safe and effective for a particular indication; • the results of clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for approval; • the FDA or other regulatory authorities may disagree with the design of our clinical trials; • we may be unable to demonstrate that a product candidate’s benefits outweigh its risks; • we may be unable to demonstrate that the product candidate presents an advantage over existing therapies, or over placebo in any indications for which the FDA requires a placebo-controlled trial; • the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with our interpretation of data from pre-clinical studies or clinical trials; • the data collected from clinical trials of our product candidates may not be sufficient to support the submission of a new drug application or to obtain regulatory approval in the U.S. or elsewhere; 36 Table of Contents • the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may fail to approve the manufacturing processes or facilities of third-party manufacturers with which we contract for clinical and commercial supplies; and • the approval policies or regulations of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may change. The FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities might decide that our data is insufficient for approval and require additional clinical trials or other studies. Furthermore, even if we do receive regulatory approval to market a commercial product, any such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which we may market the product. It is possible that none of our existing product candidates or any product candidates we may seek to develop in the future will ever obtain the appropriate regulatory approvals necessary for us or our collaborators to begin selling them. Also, recent events have raised questions about the safety of marketed drugs and may result in increased cautiousness by the FDA in reviewing new drugs based on safety, efficacy or other regulatory considerations and may result in significant delays in obtaining regulatory approvals and more stringent product labeling requirements. Any delay in obtaining, or inability to obtain, applicable regulatory approvals would prevent us from commercializing our product candidates. If we fail to attract and keep senior management and key scientific personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop our product candidates, conduct our clinical trials and commercialize our product candidates. Our success depends in part on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management, clinical and scientific personnel and on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with leading academic institutions, clinicians and scientists. We are highly dependent upon our senior management and scientific staff, particularly Kenneth Collins, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Roger Echols, M.D., our Chief Medical Officer, Peter Letendre, Pharm. D., our Chief Commercial Officer, and Nebojsa Janjic, Ph.D., our Chief Scientific Officer. The loss of services of any of Mr. Collins, Dr. Echols, Dr. Letendre or Dr. Janjic or one or more of our other members of senior management could delay or prevent the successful completion of our planned clinical trials or the commercialization of our product candidates. In addition, we only recently formed our clinical and regulatory group, which is based in Connecticut, the services of which we highly depend upon to conduct our clinical programs and obtain regulatory approvals. Competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology and pharmaceuticals field is intense. We will need to hire additional personnel as we expand our clinical development and commercial activities. In addition, we may be required to grant significant amounts of share-based compensation to certain individuals to attract them, which could increase the related non-cash compensation expense. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel on acceptable terms. We do not carry “key person” insurance covering any members of our senior management. Each of our officers and key employees may terminate his or her employment at any time without notice and without cause or good reason. We currently have no sales organization. If we are unable to establish a direct sales force in the U.S. to promote our product candidates, the commercial opportunity for our product candidates may be diminished. We currently have no sales organization. If our lead product candidate, faropenem medoxomil, is approved by the FDA for adult use, we will require a collaboration partner to market the product. If faropenem medoxomil is approved by the FDA for pediatric use, we may opt to market and sell faropenem medoxomil to pediatricians in the U.S. We will incur significant additional expenses and commit significant additional management resources to establish a pediatric sales force. We may not be able to establish a pediatric specialty sales force in a cost effective manner or realize a positive return on this investment. We will also have to compete with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to recruit, hire, train and retain sales and marketing personnel. If we elect to rely on third parties to sell our product candidates in the U.S., we may receive less revenue than if we sold our product candidates directly. In addition, we may have little or no 37 Table of Contents control over the sales efforts of those third parties. In the event we are unable to develop our own sales force or collaborate with a third party to sell our product candidates, we may not be able to commercialize our product candidates which would negatively impact our ability to generate revenue. The commercial success of our product candidates will depend upon attaining significant market acceptance of these products among physicians, patients, health care payors and the medical community. None of our product candidates has been commercialized for any indication. Even if approved for sale by the appropriate regulatory authorities, physicians may not prescribe our product candidates, in which case we would not generate revenue or become profitable. Market acceptance of our lead product candidate, faropenem medoxomil, and any future product candidates by physicians, healthcare payors and patients will depend on a number of factors, including: • the clinical indications for which the product candidate is approved; • acceptance by physicians and patients of each product candidate as a safe and effective treatment; • perceived advantages over alternative treatments; • the cost of treatment in relation to alternative treatments, including numerous generic antibiotics; • the extent to which the product candidate is approved for inclusion on formularies of hospitals and managed care organizations; • the extent to which bacteria develop resistance to the product candidate, thereby limiting its efficacy in treating or managing infections; • whether the product candidate is designated under physician treatment guidelines as a first-line therapy or as a second- or third-line therapy for particular infections; • the availability of adequate reimbursement by third parties; • relative convenience and ease of administration; and • prevalence and severity of side effects. Even if faropenem medoxomil ultimately obtains regulatory approval, many of the above factors may be adversely impacted by the historical difficulty of obtaining any such approval and may create a negative perception among physicians and healthcare payors of the advantages or efficacy of faropenem medoxomil. If our product candidates are unable to compete effectively with generic and branded antibiotics, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. If approved, our lead product candidate, faropenem medoxomil, will compete against both generic and branded community antibiotic therapies. The market for such products is very competitive and includes generic products, such as amoxicillin/clavulanate, and established branded products, such as Omnicef®, Zithromax®, Ketek® and Levaquin®, which are marketed by major pharmaceutical companies, all of which have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, pre-clinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing and marketing approved products than we do. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large, established companies. Over the next several years, our future products, if any, will face more competition in the form of generic versions of branded products of competitors that will lose their patent exclusivity. Many of the currently branded antibiotics will be sold as generics before we expect to be able to commercially launch faropenem medoxomil. Generic antibiotic therapies typically are sold at lower prices than branded antibiotics and are preferred by managed care providers of health services. As a result, managed care may place different constraints on formulary status and reimbursement at the time we expect to be able to commercially launch faropenem medoxomil. If we are unable to demonstrate to physicians that, based on experience, clinical data, side-effect profiles and other factors, our products are preferable to these generic antibiotic therapies, we may 38 Table of Contents have limited revenue potential due to formulary status. Our commercial opportunity will also be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize generic or branded antibiotics that are safer, more effective, have fewer side effects or are less expensive than our product candidates. Daiichi Asubio owns a portfolio of patents related to faropenem compounds, including the faropenem parent compound, medoxomil and other faropenem prodrugs. We have licensed from Daiichi Asubio the patents to faropenem medoxomil and other faropenem prodrugs. These patents may not prevent competitors from developing other faropenem drugs that are not covered by the Daiichi Asubio patents. Beginning in 2008, when the Daiichi Asubio patents related to the faropenem parent compound expire, competitors may submit NDAs seeking approval of antibiotics containing the faropenem parent compound as the active ingredient. These applications would have to contain full reports of safety and efficacy data conducted by or for the applicants and could not in any way rely upon the safety and efficacy data utilized in the approval of faropenem medoxomil. In addition, as early as four years after the approval of a faropenem medoxomil NDA, if any, competitors could also file NDAs seeking approval of faropenem drugs that would likely require the applicant to conduct clinical trials in order to bring the product to market in the U.S., though the FDA may allow the applicant to rely in part on the FDA’s prior findings of safety and efficacy of faropenem medoxomil. If product liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us or any future collaboration partners, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our product candidates. We face an inherent risk of product liability lawsuits related to the testing of our product candidates, and will face an even greater risk if product candidates are introduced commercially. An individual may bring a liability claim against us if one of our product candidates causes, or merely appears to have caused, an injury. We have agreed to indemnify Nippon Soda from product liability claims under our commercial arrangement with it. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against the product liability claim, we may incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for our product candidates; • injury to our reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • significant litigation costs; • substantial monetary awards to or costly settlement with patients; • product recalls; • loss of revenue; and • the inability to commercialize our product candidates. We are highly dependent upon consumer perceptions of us, the faropenem medoxomil brand and the safety and quality of our products. We could be adversely affected if we or the faropenem medoxomil brand is subject to negative publicity. We could also be adversely affected if any of our products or any similar products distributed by other companies prove to be, or are asserted to be, harmful to consumers. Also, because of our dependence upon consumer perceptions, any adverse publicity associated with illness or other adverse effects resulting from consumers’ use or misuse of our products or any similar products distributed by other companies could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We have global clinical trial liability insurance that covers our clinical trials up to a $5.0 million annual aggregate limit. Our current or future insurance coverage may prove insufficient to cover any liability claims brought against us. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if marketing approval is obtained for our product candidates. In addition, because of the increasing costs of insurance coverage, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. 39 Table of Contents We may be required to suspend or discontinue clinical trials due to side effects or other safety risks that could preclude approval of our product candidates. Our clinical trials may be suspended at any time for a number of reasons. We may voluntarily suspend or terminate our clinical trials if at any time we believe that they present an unacceptable risk to participants. In addition, regulatory agencies may order the temporary or permanent discontinuation of our clinical trials at any time if they believe that the clinical trials are not being conducted in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements or that they present an unacceptable safety risk to participants. Many antibiotics can produce significant side effects. Side effects associated with many current antibiotics include kidney and liver toxicities, heart rhythm abnormalities, photosensitivity, rash, and excessive flushing of the skin and central nervous system toxicities, such as seizures. In clinical trials, side effects of faropenem medoxomil have included gastrointestinal disorders (such as diarrhea, nausea and vomiting), nervous system disorders (such as dizziness and headaches), as well as infections and infestations (such as pneumonia and vaginal mycosis). Later clinical trials in a larger patient population could reveal other side effects. These or other side effects could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of our product candidates and could result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities stopping further development of or denying approval of our product candidates for any or all targeted indications. Even if we believe our product candidates are safe, our data is subject to review by the FDA, which may disagree with our conclusions. Moreover, we could be subject to significant liability if any volunteer or patient suffers, or appears to suffer, adverse health effects as a result of participating in our clinical trials. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates. We have agreements with third-party contract research organizations to provide monitors for and to manage data for our on-going clinical programs. We and our contract research organizations are required to comply with current Good Clinical Practices, or GCPs, regulations and guidelines enforced by the FDA for all of our products in clinical development. The FDA enforces GCPs through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and trial sites. If we or our contract research organizations fail to comply with applicable GCPs, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. We cannot ensure that, upon inspection, the FDA will determine that any of our clinical trials comply with GCPs. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with product produced under cGMP regulations, and will require a large number of test subjects. Our failure to comply with these regulations may require us to repeat clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process. Our contract research organizations have the right to terminate their agreements with us in the event of an uncured material breach. In addition, some of our contract research organizations have an ability to terminate their respective agreements with us if it can be reasonably demonstrated that the safety of the subjects participating in our clinical trials warrants such termination, if we make a general assignment for the benefit of our creditors, or if we are liquidated. If any of our relationships with these third-party contract research organizations terminate, we may not be able to enter into arrangements with alternative contract research organizations. If contract research organizations do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, if they need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols, regulatory requirements, or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates. As a result, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates would be harmed, our costs could increase and our ability to generate revenue could be delayed. 40 Table of Contents Our ability to pursue the development and commercialization of our product candidates depends upon the continuation of our licenses from third parties. Our license agreement with Daiichi Asubio provides us with an exclusive license to develop and sell any products with the compound faropenem medoxomil as an active ingredient for any indication in the U.S. and Canada. Either we or Daiichi Asubio may terminate the license agreement immediately upon the bankruptcy or dissolution of the other party or upon a breach of any material provision of the agreement if the breach is not cured within 60 days following written notice. We are currently in discussions with Daiichi Asubio regarding the future development plans for faropenem medoxomil. If there is any dispute between us and Daiichi Asubio regarding our rights or obligations under the license agreement, including diligence obligations, the achievement of milestones or interpretation of other material provisions, we risk litigation and our business may be adversely affected. If our license agreement with Daiichi Asubio were terminated, we would lose our rights to develop and commercialize faropenem medoxomil. If we fail to gain and maintain approval for our product candidates in international markets, our market opportunities will be limited. Sales of our product candidates outside of the U.S. will be subject to foreign regulatory requirements governing clinical trials and marketing approval. Even if the FDA grants marketing approval for a product candidate, comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries must also approve the manufacturing or marketing of the product candidate in those countries. Approval in the U.S., or in any other jurisdiction, does not ensure approval in other jurisdictions. Obtaining foreign approvals could result in significant delays, difficulties and costs for us and require additional trials and additional expenses. Regulatory requirements can vary widely from country to country and could delay the introduction of our products in those countries. Clinical trials conducted in one country may not be accepted by other countries and regulatory approval in one country does not mean that regulatory approval will be obtained in any other country. None of our product candidates is approved for sale in international markets and we do not have experience in obtaining regulatory approval in international markets. If we fail to comply with these regulatory requirements or to obtain and maintain required approvals, our target market will be reduced and our ability to generate revenue will be diminished. We may not be able to enter into acceptable agreements to market and commercialize our product candidates in international markets. If appropriate regulatory approvals are obtained, we intend to commercialize our product candidates in international markets through collaboration arrangements with third parties. If we decide to sell our product candidates in international markets, we may not be able to enter into any arrangements on favorable terms or at all. In addition, these arrangements could result in lower levels of income to us than if we marketed our product candidates entirely on our own. If we are unable to enter into a marketing arrangement for our product candidates in international markets, we may not be able to develop an effective international sales force to successfully commercialize those products in international markets. If we fail to enter into marketing arrangements for our products and are unable to develop an effective international sales force, our ability to generate revenue would be limited. Even if we receive regulatory approval for our product candidates, we will be subject to ongoing significant regulatory obligations and oversight. If we receive regulatory approval to sell our product candidates, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities may impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses or marketing of such products, or impose ongoing requirements for post-approval studies. Following any regulatory approval of our product candidates, we will be subject to continuing regulatory obligations, such as safety reporting requirements, and additional post-marketing obligations, including regulatory oversight of the promotion and marketing of our products. If we become aware of previously unknown problems with any of our product candidates here or overseas or at our contract manufacturers’ facilities, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on our products, our contract manufacturers or on us, including requiring us to reformulate our products, conduct additional clinical 41 Table of Contents trials, make changes in the labeling of our products, implement changes to, or obtain re-approvals of, our contract manufacturers’ facilities, or withdraw the product from the market. In addition, we may experience a significant drop in the sales of the affected products, our reputation in the marketplace may suffer and we may become the target of lawsuits, including class action suits. Moreover, if we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. Any of these events could harm or prevent sales of the affected products or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing these products. Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. The development, manufacturing, pricing, marketing, sales, and reimbursement of our product candidates, together with our general operations, are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and other authorities within the U.S. and numerous entities outside of the U.S. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, including suspension or termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a product candidate, restrictions on our product candidates or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of products from the market, significant fines, or other sanctions or litigation, and exclusion of our products from the Medicare/Medicaid payment system. As a publicly traded company we are subject to significant regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, some of which have only recently been adopted, and all of which are subject to change. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are the current best practices and continue to update the program in response to newly implemented or changing regulatory requirements, we cannot ensure that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. For example, we cannot assure that in the future our management will not find a material weakness in connection with its annual review of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We also cannot ensure that we could correct any such weakness to allow our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year in time to enable our independent registered public accounting firm to attest that such assessment will have been fairly stated in our annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or attest that we have maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. If we fail to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or any other regulations we could be subject to a range of consequences, including restrictions on our ability to sell equity or otherwise raise capital funds, significant fines, enforcement or other civil or criminal actions by the Securities and Exchange Commission or delisting by the NASDAQ Global Market or other sanctions or litigation. In addition, if we disclose any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting or other consequence of failing to comply with applicable regulations, this may cause our stock price to decline. Reimbursement may not be available for our product candidates, which could diminish our sales or affect our ability to sell any future products profitably. Market acceptance and sales of our product candidates will depend on reimbursement policies and may be affected by future health care reform measures. Government authorities and third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, decide which drugs they will pay for and establish reimbursement levels. We cannot be sure that reimbursement will be available for any of our product candidates. Also, we cannot be sure that reimbursement amounts will not reduce the demand for, or the price of, our products. We have not commenced efforts to have our product candidates reimbursed by government or third party payors. If reimbursement is not available or is available only to limited levels, we may not be able to commercialize our products. In both the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes to the health care system that could impact our ability to sell our products profitably. In particular, the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 added an outpatient prescription drug benefit to Medicare, which became effective on January 1, 2006. Drug benefits under this provision are administered through private plans that negotiate price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers. We cannot be certain that faropenem 42 Table of Contents medoxomil will successfully be placed on the list of drugs covered by particular health plans or plan formularies, nor can we predict the negotiated price for faropenem medoxomil, which will be determined by market factors. With respect to Medicaid, the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 made several changes to the way pharmacies are reimbursed under Medicaid, most of which went into effect on January 1, 2007. These changes could lead to reduced drug prices. Many states have also created preferred drug lists and include drugs on those lists only when the manufacturers agree to pay a supplemental rebate. If faropenem medoxomil or our other product candidates are not included on these preferred drug lists, physicians may not be inclined to prescribe them to their Medicaid patients. As a result of legislative proposals and the trend towards managed health care in the U.S., third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new drugs. They may also refuse to provide any coverage of uses of approved products for medical indications other than those for which the FDA has granted market approvals. As a result, significant uncertainty exists as to whether and how much third-party payors will reimburse patients for their use of newly-approved drugs, which in turn will put pressure on the pricing of drugs. The availability of numerous generic antibiotics at lower prices than branded antibiotics, such as faropenem medoxomil, if it were approved for commercial introduction, can also be expected to substantially reduce the likelihood of reimbursement for faropenem medoxomil. We expect to experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of our products due to the trend toward managed health care, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations and additional legislative proposals. We may need to modify the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing either growth or restructuring. We are a small company with 85 employees as of December 31, 2006. As our development and commercialization plans and strategies develop, we may need to either expand or reduce the size of our employee base for managerial, operational, sales, financial and other resources. Future growth would impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain and integrate additional employees. Future restructuring activities may involve significant changes to our drug development and growth strategies, our commercialization plans and other operational matters, including a significant reduction in our employee base. Any restructuring activity could result in disruption to our business, adversely affect the morale of our employees and make it more difficult to retain qualified personnel. Also, our management may have to divert a disproportionate amount of its attention away from our day-to-day activities and devote a substantial amount of time to managing either growth or restructuring activities. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize our product candidates and to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage any future growth or restructuring, as the case may be. To that end, we must be able to: • manage our development efforts effectively; • manage our clinical trials effectively; • integrate additional management, administrative, manufacturing and sales and marketing personnel, or reorganize these personnel; • maintain sufficient administrative, accounting and management information systems and controls; and • hire and train additional or replacement qualified personnel. We may not be able to accomplish these tasks, and our failure to accomplish any of them could harm our financial results. 43 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Intellectual Property It is difficult and costly to protect our proprietary rights, and we may not be able to ensure their protection. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection of our product candidates, and the methods used to manufacture them, as well as successfully defending these patents against third-party challenges. Our ability to protect our product candidates from unauthorized making, using, selling, offering to sell or importation by third parties is dependent upon the extent to which we have rights under valid and enforceable patents or trade secrets that cover these activities. As of December 31, 2006, we have exclusively licensed from Daiichi Asubio two issued U.S. patents, one issued foreign patent and one pending U.S. patent application covering faropenem medoxomil, a prodrug of faropenem. The two issued U.S. patents covering faropenem medoxomil also cover other potential prodrugs of faropenem but do not cover all potential faropenem-based antibiotic compounds. We do not and have not had any control over the filing or prosecution of these patents or patent applications. We cannot be certain that such prosecution efforts have been or will be conducted in compliance with applicable laws and regulations or will result in valid and enforceable patents. In addition, our enforcement of these faropenem medoxomil patents or defense of any claims asserting the invalidity of these patents would be subject to the cooperation of Daiichi Asubio. Although Daiichi Asubio has agreed to cooperate with us in such efforts, if requested, we cannot be assured that Daiichi Asubio would devote sufficient efforts to cooperate with us in these circumstances. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents has emerged to date in the U.S. The biotechnology patent situation outside the U.S. is even more uncertain. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the U.S. and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our licensed patents, our patents or in third-party patents. Daiichi Asubio owns a portfolio of patents related to faropenem compounds, including the faropenem parent compound, faropenem medoxomil and other faropenem prodrugs. We have licensed from Daiichi Asubio the patents to faropenem medoxomil and other faropenem prodrugs. These patents may not prevent competitors from developing other faropenem drugs that are not covered by the Daiichi Asubio patents. Beginning in 2008, when the Daiichi Asubio patents expire, competitors may submit NDAs seeking approval of antibiotics containing the faropenem parent compound as the active ingredient. These applications would have to contain full reports of safety and efficacy data conducted by or for the applicants and could not in any way rely upon the safety and efficacy data utilized in the approval of faropenem medoxomil. In addition, as early as four years after the approval of a faropenem medoxomil NDA, if any, generic and branded competitors could also file NDAs seeking approval of faropenem drugs that would likely require the applicant to conduct clinical trials in order to bring the product to market in the U.S., though the FDA may allow the applicant to rely in part on the FDA’s prior findings of safety and efficacy of faropenem medoxomil. To the extent that any competitor relies on any of the findings of safety or efficacy with respect to faropenem medoxomil, the competitor will have to certify that its compound either does not infringe our patents or that our patents are invalid. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example: • others may be able to make compounds that are similar to our product candidates but that are not covered by the claims of our licensed patents, or for which we are not licensed under our license agreements; • we or our licensors might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by our pending patent application or the pending patent applications and issued patents of our licensors; 44 Table of Contents • we or our licensors might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • it is possible that our pending patent applications will not result in issued patents; • our issued patents and the issued patents of our licensors may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be held invalid or unenforceable as a result of legal challenges by third parties; • we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or • the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business. We also may rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Although we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using any of our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the U.S. are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights and we may be unable to protect our rights to, or use, our technology. If we choose to go to court to stop someone else from using the inventions claimed in our patents or our licensed patents, that individual or company has the right to ask the court to rule that these patents are invalid and/or should not be enforced against that third party. These lawsuits are expensive and would consume time and other resources even if we were successful in stopping the infringement of these patents. In addition, there is a risk that the court will decide that these patents are not valid and that we do not have the right to stop the other party from using the inventions. There is also the risk that, even if the validity of these patents is upheld, the court will refuse to stop the other party on the ground that such other party’s activities do not infringe our rights to these patents. Furthermore, a third party may claim that we or our manufacturing or commercialization partners are using inventions covered by the third party’s patent rights and may go to court to stop us from engaging in our normal operations and activities, including making or selling our product candidates. These lawsuits are costly and could affect our results of operations and divert the attention of managerial and technical personnel. There is a risk that a court would decide that we or our commercialization partners are infringing the third party’s patents and would order us or our partners to stop the activities covered by the patents. In addition, there is a risk that a court will order us or our partners to pay the other party damages for having violated the other party’s patents. We have indemnified our commercial partners against patent infringement claims. The biotechnology industry has produced a proliferation of patents, and it is not always clear to industry participants, including us, which patents cover various types of products or methods of use. The coverage of patents is subject to interpretation by the courts, and the interpretation is not always uniform. If we are sued for patent infringement, we would need to demonstrate that our products or methods of use either do not infringe the patent claims of the relevant patent and/or that the patent claims are invalid, and we may not be able to do this. Proving invalidity, in particular, is difficult since it requires a showing of clear and convincing evidence to overcome the presumption of validity enjoyed by issued patents. Because some patent applications in the U.S. may be maintained in secrecy until the patents are issued, because patent applications in the U.S. and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until eighteen months after filing, and because publications in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered by our licensors’ issued patents or our pending applications or our licensors’ pending applications, or that we or our licensors were the first to invent the technology. Our competitors may have filed, and may in the future file, 45 Table of Contents patent applications covering technology similar to ours. Any such patent application may have priority over our or our licensors’ patent applications and could further require us to obtain rights to issued patents covering such technologies. If another party has filed a U.S. patent application on inventions similar to ours, we may have to participate in an interference proceeding declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention in the U.S. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial, and it is possible that such efforts would be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our U.S. patent position with respect to such inventions. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the funds necessary to continue our operations. Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock The market price of our common stock is highly volatile. Prior to June 28, 2006, there was no public market for our common stock. We cannot assure you that an active trading market for our common stock will exist at any time. You may not be able to sell your shares quickly or at the market price if trading in our common stock is not active. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • announcement of FDA approval or non-approval of our product candidates, or specific label indications for their use, or delays in the FDA review process; • actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to our product candidates, clinical trials, manufacturing process or sales and marketing activities; • termination of significant agreements; • changes in laws or regulations applicable to our products, including but not limited to clinical trial requirements for approvals; • the success of our development efforts and clinical trials; • the success of our efforts to acquire or in-license additional products or product candidates; • developments concerning our collaborations, including but not limited to those with our sources of manufacturing supply and our commercialization partners; • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; • announcements of technological innovations by us, our collaborators or our competitors; • new products or services introduced or announced by us or our commercialization partners, or our competitors and the timing of these introductions or announcements; • actual or anticipated changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • conditions or trends in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • general economic and market conditions and other factors that may be unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors; • changes in the market valuations of similar companies; • sales of common stock or other securities by us or our stockholders in the future; • additions or departures of key scientific or management personnel; 46 Table of Contents • developments relating to proprietary rights held by us or our competitors; • disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies; • trading volume of our common stock; and • sales of our common stock by us or our stockholders. In addition, the stock market in general and the market for biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against companies. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. We are at risk of securities class action litigation or may become subject to stockholder activism efforts that each could cause material disruption to our business. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies have experienced significant stock price volatility in recent years. Further, certain influential institutional investors and hedge funds have taken steps to involve themselves in the governance and strategic direction of certain companies that were perceived to be operating sub-optimally due to governance or strategic related disagreements with such stockholders. Recently, our stock price decreased significantly following our announcement that the FDA had issued a non-approvable letter for our lead product candidate, faropenem medoxomil. If we face such litigation or stockholder activism efforts due to this recent development or any future development affecting us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business. Our principal stockholders and management own a significant percentage of our stock and are able to exercise significant influence over matters subject to stockholder approval. Our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders, together with their respective affiliates, currently own approximately 49% of our voting stock, including shares subject to outstanding options and warrants, and we expect this group will continue to hold a significant percentage of our outstanding voting stock. Accordingly, these stockholders will likely be able to have a significant impact on the composition of our board of directors and continue to have significant influence over our operations. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have a material and adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. We will incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the NASDAQ Global Market, have imposed various new requirements on public companies, including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these new compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, we expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more 47 Table of Contents expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to incur substantial costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, commencing in fiscal 2007, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. We currently do not have an internal audit group, and we will need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by NASDAQ, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. Substantial sales of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We are unable to predict the effect that sales may have on the prevailing market price of our common stock. Substantially all of our stockholders that owned shares prior to our initial public offering that was completed on July 3, 2006 were subject to lock-up agreements with the underwriters of the offering that restricted the stockholders’ ability to transfer shares of our common stock until December 25, 2006. Subject to certain limitations, a significant portion of our total outstanding shares became eligible for sale upon expiration of the lock-up period. In addition, shares issuable upon exercise of options and warrants vested as of December 25, 2006 became eligible for sale at that time. Sales of stock by these stockholders could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Certain holders of shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase shares of our common stock are entitled to rights with respect to the registration of their shares under the Securities Act. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in the shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act, except for shares purchased by affiliates. Any sales of securities by these stockholders could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Future sales and issuances of our common stock or rights to purchase common stock, including pursuant to our equity incentive plans, could result in additional dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders and could cause our stock price to fall. We expect that significant additional capital will be required in the future to continue our planned operations. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. We may sell common stock in one or more transactions at prices and in a manner we determine from time to time. If we sell common stock in more than one transaction, stockholders who purchase stock may be materially diluted by subsequent sales. Such sales may also result in material dilution to our existing stockholders, and new investors could gain rights superior to existing stockholders. Pursuant to our 2006 Equity Incentive Plan, our management is authorized to grant stock options to our employees, directors and consultants, and our employees are eligible to participate in our 2006 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. The number of shares available for future grant under our 2006 Equity Incentive Plan can, subject to approval of our board of directors, increase each April 1 by the lesser of five percent of the number of total outstanding shares of our common stock on December 31 of the preceding year or 48 Table of Contents 1,325,448 shares, subject to the ability of our board of directors to reduce such increase. Additionally, the number of shares reserved for issuance under our 2006 Employee Stock Purchase Plan can, subject to approval of our board of directors, increase each April 1 by the lesser of one percent of the number of total outstanding shares of our common stock on December 31 of the prior year or 101,957 shares, subject to the ability of our board of directors to reduce such increase. In addition, we also have warrants outstanding to purchase shares of our common stock. Our stockholders will incur dilution upon exercise of any outstanding stock options or warrants. All of the shares of common stock sold in our initial public offering are freely tradable without restrictions or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except for any shares purchased by our affiliates as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Rule 144 defines an affiliate as a person who directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with, us and would include persons such as our directors and executive officers. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, if a corporation undergoes an “ownership change” (generally defined as a greater than 50% change (by value) in its equity ownership over a three-year period), the corporation’s ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes to offset its post-change income may be limited. We believe, based on an analysis of historical equity transactions under the provisions of Section 382, that ownership changes have in fact occurred at two points since our inception. Such ownership changes can have the impact of limiting the utilization of net operating losses in future periods. We are finalizing our evaluation as to whether such ownership changes will result in the loss of our net operating loss carryforwards that existed on the date of the ownership change. We may also experience ownership change in the future as a result of subsequent shifts in our stock ownership. Some provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; • limiting the removal of directors by the stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; • eliminating the ability of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless such transactions are approved by our board of directors. This provision could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, whether or not it is desired by or beneficial to our stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 49 Table of Contents 