ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition, operating results or liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. The trading price of our common stock could decline. In addition, this report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in those forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this report. See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Forward-Looking Statements.” Previous restatements of prior year financial statements and late filings with the SEC have affected and could continue to affect the timeliness of our filings with the SEC or other regulatory authorities. We previously restated our audited consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, as well as our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the quarters ended March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2004 and 2003. As a result of these restatements, we have not timely filed our periodic reports on Forms 10-Q and 10-K with the SEC since November 15, 2004. Although the filing of this report on Form 10-K completes our filings for our 2006 fiscal year, we continue to be delayed in filing our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the first quarter of fiscal year 2007. Consequently, there remains a risk that we will continue to experience delays in our future filings with the SEC or other regulatory authorities. 12 Because we have not filed our periodic reports with the SEC on a timely basis, we may suffer adverse business consequences, including the delisting of our common stock by the NYSE, defaulting on our credit facilities, loss of customers and a loss of liquidity. We have not filed any of our periodic reports with the SEC on a timely basis since we last filed our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004. As a result, we have had to amend the covenants in both our credit agreement and our receivables sale agreement to provide us with more time to make these filings. If we cannot meet the deadlines for providing our quarterly reports for 2007 to the financial institutions, we will have to seek further amendments and waivers. Although we have previously received such amendments and waivers, we cannot give assurance that we will be able to do so again. Our continued failure to file our quarterly reports for 2007 on a timely basis could also jeopardize our relocation and moving service agreements with the U.S. military. Under the terms of these agreements, our failure to timely file such periodic reports provides the different departments of the U.S. military with the right to terminate such agreements. If the U.S. military were to terminate any of these agreements, our revenues would be materially and adversely impacted. Furthermore, our continued failure to timely file our quarterly reports for 2007 exposes us to the risk that the NYSE may delist our common stock from trading. If our common stock were delisted from trading on the NYSE, investors would be adversely affected, because our common stock would be less liquid. The occurrence of any of these events, or other unanticipated events resulting from our failure to timely file our quarterly reports in 2007, could harm our overall business and financial results. We are subject to litigation and governmental investigations as a result of our operations. We are subject to litigation resulting from our operations, including litigation resulting from accidents involving our agents and drivers. These accidents have involved, and in the future may involve, serious injuries or the loss of lives. In addition, we occasionally are subject to litigation resulting from our home sale transactions. These lawsuits generally involve disclosure and property damage issues. Any such litigation may result in liability to us or harm our reputation. While the impact of any such litigation has been immaterial to our operations and financial condition, there can be no assurance that its impact will not be material in the future. In addition, we are being investigated by European antitrust regulators regarding potential antitrust violations in continental Europe. We have established an accrual in accordance with the guidelines set forth in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, that we consider appropriate in the circumstances. Any potential penalties, however, may have a material impact on our earnings in the period in which they are recognized, which could have a material adverse effect on our overall operations, financial condition or liquidity. Furthermore, we are the subject of a securities class action filed in November 2004 on behalf of all persons who acquired our common stock between November 25, 2003 and November 9, 2004, as well as a second lawsuit brought by an individual plaintiff against us and certain of our directors and officers. These lawsuits were consolidated in January 2006 and allege, among other matters, that we made false and misleading statements in certain press releases and SEC filings, including the prospectuses to our initial and secondary public offerings. An unfavorable outcome in this case could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The defense of any litigation may be costly and divert our attention from the day-to-day operations of our business. In addition, we are under a formal investigation by the SEC related to our January 31, 2005 earnings guidance. For a more detailed discussion of these and other legal proceedings, see Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” below. 13 Our ability to engage in certain businesses may be impaired by the regulatory investigations described above. The regulatory investigations described above may reduce the willingness of counterparties to engage in business with us. Uncertainty concerning the ultimate outcome of these actions and proceedings may also make our products and services less attractive in the marketplace. Our success depends in part on our strategy of offering a global comprehensive relocation solution to customers. A significant element of our growth model is our strategy of offering a global comprehensive relocation solution to customers by combining our higher-margin relocation services with our proprietary moving services network. If we are not successful in implementing our strategy, we could experience an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We have had net losses in the last three years, and we may not be profitable in the future. We had net losses of $54.6 million, $265.4 million, and $69.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. We cannot provide assurance that we will not report net losses in future periods. We cannot predict what impact potential net losses might have on our ability to finance our operations in the future or on the market value of our common stock. If we do not successfully compete within the highly competitive industries in which we operate, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. The global relocation industry is highly competitive. Our main competitors are other corporate relocation service providers such as Prudential Financial, Inc. and Cartus Corporation, which are also significant customers of our moving services business. The moving services industry is extremely fragmented. We compete primarily with national moving companies, including UniGroup Inc. (the operator of United Van Lines, LLC and Mayflower Transit, LLC), Atlas World Group, Graebel Companies, Inc. and Bekins Vanlines, LLC. In the moving services segment, we also face competition from other types of competitors, including independent movers, self-storage and self-haul service providers. There are many small private participants that have strong positions in local markets. Competition may force us to lower our prices thereby adversely affecting our revenues and profitability. Competition in the relocation solutions industry and potential new entrants into this industry may force us to lower our prices, thereby affecting our revenues and profitability. If we do not successfully compete within this highly competitive industry, we will lose customers, in which case our revenues and profitability would be adversely affected. As we are subject to intense competition, we may not be able to achieve our growth objectives in a timely fashion, if at all. Our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by future economic downturns and other external events. We serve numerous industries and customers that experience significant fluctuation in demand based on economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. As our operating results are subject to customer demand, a downturn in the business of our customers or a decrease in the frequency of household moves could materially adversely affect the performance of our business. In the past, our results of operations have been negatively impacted by economic downturns. The volume of U.K. home sale transactions started to decline in the third quarter of 2004 and continues to be weak. This decline, together with difficult market conditions in the European international moving market, may lead to our European operations suffering price pressures as the competition attempts to capture the remaining business volume. There can be no assurance that this period of reduced 14 moving activity will not continue to exert price pressure on our European operations, resulting in lower revenues and profitability. Similarly, terrorist attacks or other acts of violence or war may affect the financial markets, in general, or our business, financial condition and results of operation, in particular. We cannot provide assurance that there will not be future terrorist attacks affecting any of the markets we serve. Any such attacks or armed conflict may directly affect our physical facilities or those of our agents, owner-operators, customers and vendors. In addition, these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or could result in increased volatility in the U.S. and world financial markets and economies. We have substantial existing debt and may incur substantial additional debt in the future, and the agreements governing our debt contain restrictions that could significantly restrict our ability to operate our business. At December 31, 2006, we had total outstanding debt of $589.6 million and stockholders’ equity of $58.8 million. We may incur additional debt in the future, which would result in a greater portion of our cash flow from operations being dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes. Our senior secured credit facility contains a number of significant covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends, make acquisitions or engage in mergers or consolidations and make capital expenditures. In addition, under our senior secured credit facility, we are required to comply with specified financial ratios and tests, including consolidated leverage ratio and consolidated interest coverage ratio requirements. In addition, our senior secured credit facility imposes deadlines for providing our annual and quarterly financial statements to our lenders. Unless we further amend the terms of our senior secured credit facility, our failure to timely provide our lenders with quarterly financial statements would result in an event of default under the credit facility. Although we have been able to amend our senior secured credit facility in the past to extend these deadlines, we can give no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our debt instruments may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. In the past, we have had to amend our agreements in order to stay in compliance with our debt covenants. There can be no assurance that we would be able to comply with such covenants or restrictions in the future. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default or cross default under our debt instruments and would permit the lenders to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, and the commitments of our senior secured lenders to make further extensions of credit under our senior secured credit facility could be terminated. If we were unable to repay our indebtedness to our senior secured lenders, these lenders could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. The recent downgrades in SIRVA’s and SIRVA Worldwide’s credit ratings will increase our borrowing costs. In May 2006, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (“S&P”) lowered its ratings on SIRVA and SIRVA Worldwide, Inc. (“SIRVA Worldwide”) from B+ to B, with all ratings on CreditWatch with negative implications. S&P previously lowered its ratings on SIRVA and SIRVA Worldwide from BB to B+ in August 2005. In July 2005, Moody’s Investors Services also lowered the SIRVA Worldwide, Corporate Family Rating from Ba3 to B2, with a negative outlook. In October 2006, S&P withdrew its ratings on SIRVA and SIRVA Worldwide, reflecting the delay in filing updated financial statements for both 2005 and 2006 and the lack of adequate financial information to properly determine SIRVA’s current credit standing and evaluate creditor’s risks. Also in October 2006, Moody’s Investors Services withdrew its ratings for SIRVA and SIRVA Worldwide due to a lack of adequate financial information to maintain the 15 ratings. Because we rely on external sources of financing to fund our operations, the recent downgrades and withdrawals of our debt ratings will increase our borrowing costs or potentially reduce our liquidity and, therefore, adversely affect our results of operations. Our Global Relocation Services business exposes us to the risks of the real estate industry, including risks relating to the purchase, ownership and resale of transferred employees’ homes at a loss. The growth of our relocation solutions business exposes us to the risks of engaging in the real estate business. As part of our global relocation solutions package, we offer customers home purchase and sale services for their employees. In some fixed-fee programs, if a transferee’s home cannot be sold within a given period of time (“Marketing Period”), we may have to purchase the home for our own account and may ultimately have to sell the home to a third-party at a loss. Some of these fixed-fee programs have short Marketing Periods. In the future, if fixed-fee programs become a larger portion of our business, we may be required to purchase additional homes. In addition, a decline in the volume or value of existing home sales due to adverse economic changes could increase the number of homes that we may have to purchase, and we may have to sell those homes at a loss or carry these homes for longer periods of time, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. Weakening real estate markets can increase the number of homes that our Relocation Services business takes into inventory, resulting in increased costs and lower profitability. Weakening real estate markets continue to negatively impact our home sale programs, resulting in an increase in the number of homes that we purchase and take into inventory. This may continue to increase our fixed-fee program inventory costs and the potential for a loss on the sale of a home. Because we finance the purchase of homes taken into inventory, an increase in the number of homes that we take into inventory also increases our borrowings under our revolving credit facility, except to the extent we have the ability to obtain first lien mortgages through a national mortgage lender. As a result, the weakening real estate market as well as increased costs may result in lower revenues and profitability and increased use of working capital, which may adversely affect our liquidity. We may not be able to recruit and retain a sufficient number of agents, representatives or owner-operators to sustain our moving services business. Our Moving Services North America operations rely on the services of agents to market our services and to act as intermediaries with customers, and on agents and owner-operators to provide a significant portion of our packing, warehousing and hauling services. Although we believe our relationships with our agents and owner-operators are good, we and our agents have had some difficulty obtaining or retaining qualified owner-operators in the past due to industry conditions. Our agents are independent businesses that provide moving and storage services to our and their own customers, and 20 of our 643 agents account for approximately 32% of our moving and storage business in North America. If an agent were to terminate its relationship with us, we might not be able to recruit a replacement to service the same geographic region. Generally, there are few additional new entrants into this business, and thus recruiting new agents often requires a conversion of an agent from a competing van line. Competing companies also recruit our agents. Owner-operators are independent contractors who own their trucks and provide hauling and other services. Fluctuations in the economy and fuel prices, as well as a lifestyle that requires drivers to often be away from home from four to eight weeks at a time, create challenges for new entrants to that business. Further, competition for long haul owner-operators is strong among competing moving companies. We cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in retaining our agents or owner-operators or that agents or owner-operators that terminate their contracts can be replaced by qualified personnel. A 16 loss in the number of experienced drivers could lead to an increased frequency of accidents, potential claims exposure and result in increased insurance costs. Because agents have the primary relationship with customers, we expect that some customers would terminate their relationship should there be a separation between the agent and ourselves. In addition, a loss of agents could impair our ability to guarantee moving capacity to our relocation customers. Actions taken by our agents may harm our brands or reputation, or result in legal actions against us. We believe that our strong brand names, including Allied® and northAmerican®, are among our most valuable assets. Our proprietary network of agents in North America operate their businesses using our brand names and, in the case of most intrastate moves, without our involvement. Our agents are independent third parties with their own financial objectives, and actions taken by them, including breaches of their contractual obligations to us, could harm our brands or reputation, or result in legal actions against us. Any negative publicity associated with our agents may affect our reputation and thereby adversely impact our results of operations. We are a holding company with no significant independent operations and, therefore, rely on our subsidiaries to make funds available to us. We are a holding company with no significant independent operations and no significant assets other than the capital stock of our subsidiaries, including SIRVA Worldwide. Therefore, we depend on the receipt of dividends or other distributions from our subsidiaries. Our senior credit facility contains a number of significant covenants that, among other matters, restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, incur capital lease obligations, pay dividends, make acquisitions or engage in mergers or consolidations and make capital expenditures. While the senior credit agreement generally permits dividends and distributions on the capital stock of SIRVA Worldwide’s subsidiaries to SIRVA Worldwide, such dividends and distributions from SIRVA Worldwide to us are limited to 20% of net income, subject to exceptions for transfers to fund our operating expenses in the ordinary course of business. In addition, under our senior secured credit facility, we are required to comply with specified financial ratios and tests, including consolidated leverage ratio and consolidated interest coverage ratio requirements. Our inability to receive funds from our operating subsidiaries could adversely affect our ability to meet our obligations and to make dividend payments and other distributions to holders of our common stock. Potential liability associated with accidents in the trucking industry is severe and occurrences are unpredictable. In addition, an increase in liability, property or casualty insurance premiums could cause us to incur significant costs. We use the services of a significant number of drivers in connection with our pick-up and delivery operations, and from time-to-time these drivers are involved in accidents, including accidents occurring in operations that do not involve us. Potential liability associated with accidents in the trucking industry may be severe and occurrences are unpredictable. We are also subject to substantial exposure due to workers’ compensation and cargo claims expense, whether or not injuries or damage occur in the context of a traffic accident. We carry insurance to cover liability and workers’ compensation claims. We cannot provide assurance, however, that our insurance will be adequate to cover all of our liabilities. To the extent we were to experience a material increase in the frequency or severity of accidents, cargo claims or workers’ compensation claims, or in the unfavorable resolution of existing claims, we might be required to incur substantial costs to cover these claims. In addition, our results of operations would be adversely affected if our liability, workers’ compensation and casualty premiums were to increase substantially. 17 If we lost one or more of our government licenses or permits or became subject to more onerous government regulations, including the federal safety rules on truck driver work hours and the federal consumer protection regulations governing the moving industry, we could be adversely affected. Our operations are subject to a number of complex and stringent transportation, environmental, labor, employment, and other laws and regulations. These laws and regulations generally require us to maintain a wide variety of certificates, permits, licenses and other approvals. For example, in the United States, we maintain licenses and permits issued by the Surface Transportation Board, the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration and the Department of Transportation, as well as the Federal Maritime Commission and banking regulators. We also hold various real estate broker licenses, title insurance licenses and mortgage lending licenses. In Europe, we, either directly or indirectly through our authorized representative network, hold operator licenses and international transport licenses issued by the relevant local authorities in each of the countries we or they, as applicable, operate trucks. Across Europe, we are required to comply with data protection legislation ensuring the safeguarding of customers’ information. In the United Kingdom, we are licensed under the Administration of Justice Act of 1985 to carry out the legal process for the transfer of property. In the United Kingdom, we also are licensed by the Financial Services Authority to sell insurance to our customers. We also hold licenses that permit us to sell insurance in certain European and Asia Pacific countries. Furthermore, we hold various commercial vehicle licenses, as well as other licenses for international relocation, in the Asia Pacific region. Our failure to maintain required certificates, permits or licenses, or to comply with applicable laws, ordinances or regulations, could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct our operations, which in turn could restrict our ability to conduct our business effectively and to provide competitive customer services and thereby have an adverse impact on our financial condition. We cannot provide assurance that existing laws or regulations will not be revised or that new more restrictive laws or regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to us. For example, federal safety rules on truck driver work hours were reissued on October 1, 2005. These rules, among other things, increased the time that truck drivers must rest while off duty and decreased the total time that truck drivers could be on duty. In addition, a federal consumer protection statute enacted on August 20, 2005, deals with consumer moving transactions, and changed, among other things, the requirements relating to estimation and collection practices of movers. We cannot provide assurance that new, more restrictive laws or regulations, including these rules and regulations, will not materially and adversely affect our productivity and efficiency. We also cannot provide assurance that we will be able to recover from our customers any or all increased costs of compliance or that our business and financial condition will not be materially and adversely affected by these or future changes in applicable laws and regulations. Furthermore, in the United States, the Van Lines have been participants in certain collective activities, including collective rate-making with other motor carriers pursuant to an exemption from the antitrust laws as currently set forth in The Motor Carrier Act of 1980. In May 2007, the STB issued a decision terminating its approval of the rate agreements of all motor carrier rate bureaus that authorize the bureaus’ carriers to engage in collective rate-making activities. As a result, this decision removed the exemption from antitrust laws the moving services industry has previously operated under, effective September 4, 2007. The loss of this exemption could result in an adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. Any difficulties with our information systems or our information systems providers could delay or disrupt our ability to service our customers and impair our competitiveness. Sophisticated information systems are vital to our growth and our ability to manage and monitor the flow of goods that we are transporting and to provide relocation services. As these systems continue to 18 rapidly evolve, we will need to continually enhance them. We may encounter difficulties in enhancing these systems or in integrating new technology into our systems in a timely and cost-effective manner. These difficulties could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to operate efficiently and to provide competitive customer service. To compete effectively, we must anticipate and adapt to technological changes and offer, on a timely basis, competitively priced services that meet evolving industry standards and customer preferences. We may choose new technologies that later prove to be inadequate or may be forced to implement new technologies at substantial cost to remain competitive. In addition, competitors may implement new technologies before we do, allowing them to provide lower priced or enhanced services and superior quality compared to those we provide. The above circumstances could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to compete. In the United States, two third-party vendors together provide 100% of our domestic moving services information systems infrastructure and our application software development. We provide information systems infrastructure and our application software development resources for Global Relocation Services. In Europe and the Asia Pacific region, the information systems infrastructure and application software development are provided through a combination of third-party vendors and company-owned networks and employees. While we have a disaster recovery plan in conjunction with these vendors, we can provide no assurance that the plan will be adequate in the event of an actual disaster. Adverse conditions affecting the financial condition and other important aspects of these vendors’ operations may adversely affect our ability to operate efficiently or to continue operations under certain adverse conditions. We depend on our highly trained executive officers and employees. Any loss of these employees or any difficulty in hiring equally qualified employees could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Our operations are managed by a small number of key executive officers. The loss of any of these individuals could have a materially adverse effect on us. In addition, our success depends on our ability to continue to attract, recruit and retain sufficient qualified personnel as we grow. Competition for qualified personnel is intense. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to retain senior management, integrate new managers or recruit qualified personnel in the future. A few significant stockholders exercise significant influence over the direction of our business. If the ownership of our common stock continues to be highly concentrated, it will prevent other stockholders from influencing important corporate decisions. Clayton, Dubilier & Rice Fund V Limited Partnership (“Fund V”) and Clayton, Dubilier & Rice Fund VI Limited Partnership (“Fund VI” and, together with Fund V, the “CD&R Funds”) beneficially own approximately 23.1% and 9.6%, respectively, of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, the CD&R Funds will continue to exercise significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval and over our policy and affairs. In addition, Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, Inc. (“CD&R”), which manages Fund V and Fund VI, will continue to provide us with financial advisory and management consulting services for which it may be entitled to receive fees, including financial advisory fees, in the future. The concentrated holdings of the CD&R Funds and the presence on our Board of Directors of a Fund V designee may result in a delay or the deterrence of possible changes in control of our company, which may reduce the market price of our common stock. In addition, one of our directors is also a partner of ValueAct Capital Management, L.P., the manager of ValueAct Capital Master Fund, L.P. (“ValueAct Capital”), which beneficially owns approximately 9.6% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. ValueAct Capital also holds a note which, subject to stockholder approval, is convertible into approximately 20.2% of the outstanding shares of our common stock based upon the number of shares outstanding as of December 31, 2006 on an as converted basis. Further, ValueAct Capital, as the holder of 19 our Series A preferred stock, has the right to elect two directors to our Board of Directors. Accordingly, ValueAct Capital has elected one director to our Board of Directors and has designated another individual with Board observation rights. The interests of our principal stockholders may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. Our Board of Directors has adopted corporate governance guidelines that require each director to avoid taking actions or having interests that might result in a conflict of interest with our company. Each director is required to ethically handle all actual or apparent conflicts of interest between personal and professional relationships, including promptly informing the corporate secretary if such a conflict arises and recusing himself or herself from any discussion or decision affecting his or her personal interests. Accordingly, our directors who are employees of CD&R or ValueAct Capital will be required to recuse themselves from any discussion or decision regarding any transaction with the respective stockholders. In addition, we have adopted a code of business conduct that, among other things, requires our employees to avoid actions or relationships that might conflict or appear to conflict with their job responsibilities or the interests of SIRVA and to disclose their outside activities, financial interests and relationships that may present a possible conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict to management or corporate counsel. These guidelines and code do not, by themselves, prohibit transactions with our principal stockholders. Fuel is a significant cost element in the trucking transportation industry. Fuel prices are currently high and may continue to rise. Fuel prices and the availability of fuel have been subject to volatility in the past. We utilize numerous trucks and tractor trailers that depend on fuel in the performance of day-to-day services in the household goods and office moving lines of our business, which are parts of our Moving Services North America and Moving Services Europe and Asia Pacific segments. We often employ the services of third-party transportation providers, particularly owner-operators in the U.S. domestic moving business, who also depend on fuel and, as a result, are subject to variations in fuel prices. We cannot provide assurance that fuel prices will remain stable or that supplies of fuel will always be available. Should costs escalate, we may be unable to fully recover the cost increase by increasing the price for our services. Third parties who provide transportation services to us may be unwilling to continue to do so without an increase in compensation. As a result, our operating margins could decrease, thereby adversely affecting our profitability. Contingent or future environmental liabilities could cause us to incur significant costs and adversely affect our operations. We are subject to a wide range of environmental laws and regulations under the foreign, U.S., state and local laws that govern our operations. Among other things, these requirements regulate discharges of pollutants into the water, air and land, the use, management and disposal of hazardous substances, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. In certain European locations, we are required to recycle specified portions of our waste products. We could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal penalties, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or the reduction or suspension of our operations as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws or non-compliance with the environmental permits required at our facilities. Contaminants have been detected at some of our present or former sites, principally in connection with historical operations. In addition, we own or lease, or in the past have owned or leased, facilities at which underground storage tanks are located, some of which have leaked in the past. We have been, and may in the future be responsible for, investigating and remediating contamination at these sites, or at off-site locations where we sent hazardous wastes for disposal. While we regularly make capital and operating expenditures to stay in compliance with environmental laws, future or contingent environmental liabilities, including remediation costs, could have a material effect on our business. See Item 1, “Business—Environmental Matters.” 20 Our business is highly seasonal, which leads to fluctuations in our operating results and working capital needs. The relocation and moving businesses are highly seasonal due to the increase in moving activity during the summer months. Our results of operations and cash flow fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to the higher shipment and home closing amounts experienced in the summer months. Certain of our operating expenses are fixed and cannot be reduced during the fall and winter months, when there is decreased demand for relocation and moving services. If we are unable to capitalize on the peak summer season or successfully manage the decreased activity during other parts of the year, our annual performance may be materially adversely affected. The seasonal nature of the relocation and moving businesses results in increased short-term working capital requirements in summer months. Our owner-operators are currently not considered to be employees by taxing and other regulatory authorities. Should these authorities change their position and consider our owner-operators to be our employees, our costs related to our tax, unemployment compensation and workers’ compensation obligations could increase significantly. From time-to-time, certain parties, including the Internal Revenue Service, state authorities and the owner-operators themselves, have sought to assert that owner-operators in the trucking industry are employees rather than independent contractors. To date, these parties have not been successful in making these assertions against us. We consider all of our owner-operators to be independent contractors. We cannot provide assurance that tax authorities will not successfully challenge this position, that interpretations supporting our position will not change, or that federal and state tax or other applicable laws will not change. If owner-operators were deemed to be employees, our costs related to tax, unemployment compensation and workers’ compensation could increase significantly. In addition, these changes may be applied retroactively, and if so we may be required to pay additional amounts to compensate for prior periods. Our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and Delaware law may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders might consider in their best interests. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws may delay, defer, prevent or render more difficult a takeover attempt that our stockholders might consider in their best interests. These provisions include: · authorization of the issuance of preferred stock, the terms of which may be determined at the sole discretion of the board of directors; · establishment of a classified board of directors with staggered, three year terms; · provisions giving the board of directors sole power to set the number of directors; · limitation on the ability of stockholders to remove directors; · prohibition on stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders; · establishment of advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations for election to the board of directors at stockholder meetings; and · requirement of the approval by the holders of at least 75% of our outstanding common stock for the amendment of our by-laws and provisions of our certificate of incorporation governing: · the classified board of directors, · the removal of directors only for cause by holders of at least 75% of our outstanding common stock, 21 · the liability of directors, and · the elimination of stockholder actions by written consent. These provisions may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock, if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. Our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws may also make it difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions may facilitate management entrenchment that may delay, defer or prevent a change in our control, which may not be in the best interests of our stockholders. The international scope of our operations may adversely affect our business. We face certain risks because we conduct an international business, including: · restrictions on foreign ownership of subsidiaries; · compliance with import/export and customs laws of the United States and other countries; · tariffs and other trade barriers; · political risks; and · potentially adverse tax consequences of operating in multiple jurisdictions. In addition, an adverse change in laws or administrative practices in countries within which we operate or where our information systems support and application software development is performed could have a materially adverse effect on us. We are exposed to currency fluctuations, which may have an adverse effect on us. A large portion of our revenues are from operations outside of the United States. These revenues are denominated in the local currency of the country in which our international subsidiaries own their primary assets. Although the majority of expenses are incurred in the same currency in which corresponding revenues are generated, we are exposed to fluctuation in foreign currencies in the translation of the applicable currencies into U.S. dollars. We utilize foreign currency forward contracts in the regular course of business to manage our exposure against foreign currency fluctuations; however, any fluctuation in value of the U.S. dollar relative to these currencies could have an adverse effect on us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 22 