Item 1A. Risk Factors Our credit risk management approach or processes can impact our results. We have a disciplined approach to credit allocation. In the event our risk processes indicate a business strategy towards or away from a certain loan type, we may create a concentration of credit which could be positively or negatively impacted by economic factors. Our credit risk management approach is dependent on our personnel accurately and adequately identifying current and inherent risks in loan transactions and loan products. Although we believe our credit risk management approach is appropriate, the failure to accurately identify risks in loan transactions could negatively affect our financial condition and performance. 17 If we need additional capital in the future to continue our growth and maintain our targeted regulatory capital levels, we may not be able to obtain it on terms that are favorable. This could negatively affect our performance and the value of our common stock. Our business strategy calls for continued growth while maintaining an adequate capital buffer supporting our “well capitalized” status. We anticipate that we will be able to support this growth through the generation of additional deposits via our Private Client Service team and our specific industry niches. However, we may need to raise additional capital in the future to support our continued growth and to maintain desired capital levels. Our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities will depend primarily upon our financial condition and the condition of financial markets at that time. We may not be able to obtain additional capital in the amounts needed or on terms satisfactory to us. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented and could adversely affect our access to capital. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. Recently, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength or franchise value. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our focus on commercial and real estate loans may increase the risk of credit losses, which would negatively affect our financial results. We offer a variety of loans including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. Many of our loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial) in the greater Washington, D.C. metropolitan area. A continued downturn in this real estate market, such as further deterioration in the value of this collateral, or in the local or national economy and job markets, could adversely affect our customers’ ability to pay these loans, which in turn could adversely affect us. Risk of loan defaults and foreclosures are unavoidable in the banking industry, and we try to limit our exposure to this risk by monitoring our extensions of credit carefully. We cannot fully eliminate credit risk, and as a result credit losses may occur in the future. We have been and may be further adversely affected by economic conditions in our market area. Because our lending and other banking activities are concentrated in the greater Washington, D.C. metropolitan area, we are directly affected by economic conditions in that market area. Changes in the local economy, particularly in residential real estate, government spending or the technology and communications businesses, may influence the growth rate of our loans and deposits, the quality of our loan portfolio and loan and deposit pricing. A significant decline in economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control would impact these local economic conditions and the demand for banking products and services generally could negatively affect our ability to collect loans and could otherwise have a negative effect on our financial condition and performance. If our allowance for loan losses becomes inadequate, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate to absorb any potential losses in our loan portfolio. Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio and performance of our customers relative to their financial obligations with us. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control, and these future losses may exceed our current estimates. Although we believe the allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb probable losses in our loan portfolio, we cannot predict such losses or provide assurance that our allowance will be adequate in the future. Excessive loan losses could have a material adverse impact on our financial performance. 18 Federal and state regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review our allowance for loan losses. These regulatory agencies may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or to recognize further loan charge-offs based upon their judgments, which may be different from ours. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A continuation or further deterioration of the current economic environment could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. A continuation of the recent turbulence in significant portions of the global financial markets, particularly if it worsens, could impact our performance, both directly by affecting our revenues and the value of our assets and liabilities, and indirectly by affecting our counterparties and the economy generally. Dramatic declines in the housing market in the past year have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. Concerns about the stability of the financial markets generally have reduced the availability of funding to certain financial institutions, leading to a tightening of credit, reduction of business activity and increased market volatility. It is not clear at this time what impact the EESA or other liquidity and funding initiatives of the Treasury and other bank regulatory agencies that have been announced, or any additional programs that may be initiated in the future, will have on the financial markets and the financial services industry. The extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced could continue to affect the U.S. banking industry and the broader U.S. and global economies, which would have an effect on all financial institutions, including us. Weakness in the secondary residential mortgage loan markets will adversely affect our income from our mortgage division. Significant ongoing disruptions in the secondary market for residential mortgage loans have limited the market for and liquidity of many mortgage loans. The ongoing corrections in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales have resulted in fewer loan originations. We expect the ongoing effects of lower demand for home mortgage loans resulting from reduced demand in both the new and resale housing markets, the slowing national economy and the fallout from the subprime and alternative loan issues to result in lower origination volume. While a decline in interest rates may spur refinance activity in 2009, the decline in housing market values, coupled with the availability of fewer mortgage loan products and tighter underwriting guidelines, will temper demand. Deterioration in the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, could exacerbate the market-wide liquidity crisis and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially adversely affect our results of operations. 19 We have been effective in a specific market niche, which creates an industry concentration. We have made a special effort to obtain deposits from title and mortgage loan closing companies. These are monies held for short periods of time by title and mortgage loan closing companies pending the disbursement of funds in mortgage loan or mortgage loan refinancing transactions. The balances on deposit with us from these depositors tend to fluctuate greatly during any given month, depending on transaction scheduling and overall market conditions. These balances represent a substantial portion of our non-interest bearing deposits, which creates a real estate industry concentration. These deposits are subject to seasonal and cyclical market fluctuations and are particularly sensitive to slower real estate markets. In order to meet the withdrawal needs of these customers, we monitor our liquidity, investment securities and lines of credit on a constant basis. Because of this industry concentration in our deposits, we are exposed to liquidity and concentration risks attendant to changes in real estate markets, which could adversely impact our overall performance. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our business and results of operations. Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for credit losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. We have intangible assets and goodwill that may become impaired, and thus result in a charge against earnings. We test impairment on an annual basis or when circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. In the fourth quarter of 2008, our impairment testing resulted in a reduction of $300 thousand to our goodwill related to our insurance company acquisitions. We may recognize impairment charges in the future as economic and operating conditions change. We depend on the services of key personnel, and a loss of any of those personnel could disrupt our operations and result in reduced earnings. We are a customer focused and relationship driven organization. Our growth and success has been in large part driven by the personal customer relationships maintained by our executives. Although we have entered into employment contracts with our executive officers, we cannot offer any assurance that they and other key employees will remain employed by us. The loss of services of one or more of these key employees could have a material adverse effect on our operations and possibly result in reduced revenues and earnings. The success of our future recruiting efforts will impact our ability to grow. The implementation of our business strategy will require us to continue to attract, hire, motivate and retain skilled personnel to develop new customer relationships as well as new financial products and services. Many experienced banking and insurance professionals employed by our competitors are covered by agreements not to compete or solicit their existing customers if they were to leave their current employment. These agreements make the recruitment of these professionals more difficult. The market for these people is competitive, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting, hiring, motivating or retaining them. In addition, we are deploying resources to attract additional relationship officers, mortgage loan originators, and insurance agents, but cannot guarantee that this investment of money and management time will be successful. The success of our recruiting efforts may impact our ability to grow and future profitability. 20 Our adoption of Fair Value Option (FVO) accounting may not achieve desired results. In 2007, we adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 159 and account for certain assets and liabilities on a fair value basis. Our objective in adopting the accounting standard was to provide the reader of the financial statements a more realistic view of our balance sheet and the market values of investments and wholesale liabilities. If our matching of assets and liabilities is not precisely achieved for business or economic reasons more income statement volatility may occur. Our profitability depends on interest rates, and changes in monetary policy may adversely impact us. Our profitability depends in substantial part on our net interest margin, which is the difference between the rates we receive on loans and investments and the rates we pay for deposits and other sources of funds. Our net interest margin depends on many factors that are partly or completely outside of our control, including competition, federal economic, monetary and fiscal policies, and economic conditions generally. Our net interest income will be adversely affected if market interest rates change so that the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings increases faster than the interest we earn on loans and investments. We try to minimize our exposure to interest rate risk, but we are unable to completely eliminate this risk. Fluctuations in market rates are neither predictable nor controllable and may have a material and negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. The Northern Virginia and the greater Washington, D.C. metropolitan area in which we operate is considered highly attractive from an economic and demographic viewpoint, and is therefore a highly competitive banking and mortgage banking market. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive financial services environment. We compete for loans, deposits, and investment dollars with numerous large, regional and national banks and other community banking institutions, as well as other kinds of financial institutions and enterprises, such as securities firms, insurance companies, savings associations, credit unions, and private lenders. Many competitors offer products and services we do not offer and many have substantially greater resources, name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. Some of the financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies and federally insured state-chartered banks, national banks and federal savings institutions. As a result, these nonbank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various services. The differences in resources and regulations may make it harder for us to compete profitably, reduce the rates that we can earn on loans and investments, increase the rates we must offer on deposits and other funds, and adversely affect our overall financial condition and earnings. Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting may not allow us to be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. The requirements of Section 404 of the SOX Act and SEC rules and regulations require an annual management report on our internal controls over financial reporting, including, among other matters, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to report our financial results with the desired degree of accuracy or to prevent fraud. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Bankshares has no unresolved comments from the SEC staff. 21 