Item 1A. Risk Factors Our credit risk management approach or processes can impact our results. We have a disciplined approach to credit allocation. In the event our risk processes indicate a business strategy towards or away from a certain loan type, we may create a concentration of credit which could be positively or negatively impacted by economic factors. Our credit risk management approach is dependent on our personnel accurately and adequately identifying current and inherent risks in loan transactions and loan products. Although we believe our credit risk management approach is appropriate, the failure to accurately identify risks in loan transactions could negatively affect our financial condition and performance. Our focus on commercial and real estate loans may increase the risk of credit losses, which would negatively affect our financial results. We offer a variety of loans including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. Many of our loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial) in the greater Washington, D.C. metropolitan area. A continued downturn in this real estate market, such as further deterioration in the value of this collateral, or in the local or national economy and job markets, could adversely affect our customers’ ability to pay these loans, which in turn could adversely affect us. Risk of loan defaults and foreclosures are unavoidable in the banking industry, and we try to limit our exposure to this risk by monitoring our extensions of credit carefully. We cannot fully eliminate credit risk, and as a result credit losses may occur in the future. If our allowance for loan losses becomes inadequate, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate to absorb any potential losses in our loan portfolio. Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio and 18 performance of our customers relative to their financial obligations with us. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control, and these future losses may exceed our current estimates. Although we believe the allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb probable losses in our loan portfolio, we cannot predict such losses or provide assurance that our allowance will be adequate in the future. Excessive loan losses could have a material adverse impact on our financial performance. Federal and state regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review our allowance for loan losses. These regulatory agencies may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or to recognize further loan charge-offs based upon their judgments, which may be different from ours. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If the value of real estate in our market areas was to decline materially, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on our asset quality, capital structure and profitability. As of December 31, 2010, a significant portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of loans secured by either commercial real estate or 1-4 family residential properties. In the majority of these loans, real estate was the primary collateral component. In some cases, and out of an abundance of caution, we take real estate as security for a loan even when it is not the primary component of collateral. The real estate collateral that provides the primary or an alternate source of repayment in the event of default may deteriorate in value during the term of the loan as a result of changes in economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax and other laws and acts of nature. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, which we have seen and continue to experience, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. We are subject to increased lending risks in the form of loan defaults as a result of the high concentration of real estate lending in our loan portfolio should the real estate market in Virginia and our market area maintain its downward turn. Continued weakness of the real estate market in our primary market areas could have an adverse effect on the demand for new loans, the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, the value of real estate and other collateral securing the loans and the value of real estate owned by us. If real estate values decline further, it is also more likely that we would be required to increase our allowance for loan losses, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we need additional capital in the future to achieve or maintain our targeted regulatory capital levels, we may not be able to obtain it on terms that are favorable. This could negatively affect our performance and the value of our common stock. Our business strategy calls for balance sheet repositioning and loan growth while maintaining an adequate capital buffer above the “well capitalized” status. If our balance sheet composition and risk profile changes, we may need to expand the acceptable range of the capital buffer above our current targeted levels. Our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities will depend primarily upon our financial condition and the condition of financial markets at that time. We may not be able to obtain additional capital in the amounts needed or on terms satisfactory to us or to our shareholders. The Basel III capital requirements may require us to maintain higher levels of capital, which could reduce our profitability. The recent adoption of Basel III targets higher levels of base capital, certain capital buffers and a migration toward common equity as the key source of regulatory capital. Although the new capital requirements are phased in over the next decade and may change substantially before final implementation, Basel III signals a growing effort by domestic and international bank regulatory agencies to require financial institutions, including depository institutions, to maintain higher levels of capital. The direction of the Basel III implementation activities or other regulatory viewpoints could require additional capital to support our business risk profile prior to final implementation of the Basel III standards. If Bankshares and the Bank are required to maintain higher levels of capital, Bankshares and the Bank may have fewer opportunities to invest capital into interest-earning assets, which could limit the profitable business operations available to Bankshares and the Bank and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. We have been effective in a specific market niche, which creates an industry concentration. We have made a special effort to obtain deposits from title and mortgage loan closing companies. These are monies held for short 19 periods of time by title and mortgage loan closing companies pending the disbursement of funds in mortgage loan or mortgage loan refinancing transactions. The balances on deposit with us from these depositors tend to fluctuate greatly during any given month, depending on transaction scheduling and overall market conditions. These balances represent a substantial portion of our non-interest bearing deposits, which creates a real estate industry concentration. These deposits are subject to seasonal and cyclical market fluctuations and are particularly sensitive to slower real estate markets. In order to meet the withdrawal needs of these customers, we monitor our liquidity, investment securities and lines of credit on a constant basis. The attractive nature of this deposit base or market niche has generated substantial banking competition for this type of client. Because of this industry concentration in our deposits, we are exposed to liquidity and concentration risks attendant to changes in real estate markets, which could adversely impact our overall performance. We depend on the services of key personnel, and a loss of any of those personnel could disrupt our operations and result in reduced earnings. We are a customer focused and relationship driven organization. Our growth and success has been in large part driven by the personal customer relationships maintained by our executives. Although we have entered into employment contracts with our executive officers, we cannot offer any assurance that they and other key employees will remain employed by us. The recent departure of a senior executive responsible for the title and escrow line of business could have an impact on the Bank’s key business lines if customers and accounts with which the senior executive maintained close relationships were to end their business relationships with the Company in the future. The loss of services of key employees or client relationship managers could reduce the number of quality accounts maintained at the Bank, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and possibly result in reduced revenues and earnings. The success of our future recruiting and employee retention efforts will impact our ability to execute our business strategy. Our business strategy will require us to continue to attract, hire, motivate and retain skilled personnel to develop new customer relationships as well as new financial products and services. Many experienced banking professionals employed by our competitors are covered by agreements not to compete or solicit their existing customers if they were to leave their current employment. These agreements make the recruitment of these professionals more difficult in a competitive labor market. In light of the presently competitive labor market, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting, hiring, motivating or retaining qualified and high-performing, experienced banking professionals. In addition, we are deploying resources to attract additional relationship officers and staff personnel, but cannot guarantee that this investment of money and management time will be successful. The success of our recruiting efforts may impact our ability to execute our business strategy and our future profitability. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Liquidity is essential to our business. Our ability to implement our business strategy will depend on our ability to obtain funding for loan originations, working capital and other general corporate purposes. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowing, and securities sold under repurchase agreements, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. We do not anticipate that our retail and commercial deposits will be fully sufficient to meet our funding needs in the foreseeable future. We therefore rely on deposits obtained through intermediaries, FHLB advances, securities sold under agreements to repurchase and other wholesale funding sources to obtain the funds necessary to implement our growth strategy. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general, including a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. To the extent we are not successful in obtaining such funding, we will be unable to implement our strategy as planned which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, result of operations and cash flows. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past few years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under- 20 employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressures on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets have adversely affected our business and results of operations. Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for credit losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. The Northern Virginia and the greater Washington, D.C. metropolitan area in which we operate is considered highly attractive from an economic and demographic viewpoint, and is therefore a highly competitive banking market. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive financial services environment. We compete for loans, deposits, and investment dollars with numerous large, regional and national banks and other community banking institutions, as well as other kinds of financial institutions and enterprises, such as securities firms, insurance companies, savings associations, credit unions, and private lenders. Many competitors offer products and services we do not offer and many have substantially greater resources, name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business. In addition, some competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. Some of the financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies and federally insured state-chartered banks, national banks and federal savings institutions. As a result, these nonbank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various services. The differences in resources and regulations may make it harder for us to compete profitably, reduce the rates that we can earn on loans and investments, increase the rates we must offer on deposits and other funds, and adversely affect our overall financial condition and earnings. The Dodd-Frank Act could increase our regulatory compliance burden and associated costs, place restrictions on certain products and services, and limit our future capital raising strategies. A wide range of regulatory initiatives directed at the financial services industry have been proposed in recent months. One of those initiatives, the Dodd-Frank Act, was signed into law on July 21, 2010. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a sweeping overhaul of the financial services industry within the United States and mandates significant changes in the financial regulatory landscape that will impact all financial institutions, including the Company. The Dodd-Frank Act will likely increase our regulatory compliance burden and may have a material adverse effect on us, by increasing the costs associated with our regulatory examinations and compliance measures. The federal regulatory agencies, and particularly bank regulatory agencies, are given significant discretion in drafting the Dodd-Frank Act’s implementing rules and regulations and, consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act will depend on the final implementing rules and regulations. Accordingly, it remains too early to fully assess the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and subsequent regulatory rulemaking processes on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Among the Dodd-Frank Act’s significant regulatory changes, the Dodd-Frank Act creates a new financial consumer protection agency that could impose new regulations on us and include its examiners in our routine regulatory examinations conducted by the FDIC, which could increase our regulatory compliance burden and costs and restrict the financial products and services we can offer to our customers. This agency, named the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, may reshape the consumer financial laws through rulemaking and enforcement of the Dodd-Frank Act’s prohibitions against unfair, deceptive and abusive business practices, which may directly impact the business operations of financial institutions offering consumer financial products or services, including the Company. This agency’s broad rulemaking authority includes identifying practices or acts that are unfair, deceptive or abusive in connection with any consumer financial transaction or consumer financial product or service. Although the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has jurisdiction over banks with $10 billion or greater in assets, rules, regulations and policies issued by the Bureau may also apply to the Company or its subsidiaries by 21 virtue of the adoption of such policies and best practices by the Federal Reserve and FDIC. The costs and limitations related to this additional regulatory agency and the limitations and restrictions that will be placed upon the Company with respect to its consumer product and service offerings have yet to be determined. However, these costs, limitations and restrictions may produce significant, material effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations The Dodd-Frank Act also increases regulatory supervision and examination of bank holding companies and their banking and non-banking subsidiaries, which could increase our regulatory compliance burden and costs and restrict our ability to generate revenues from non-banking operations. The Dodd-Frank Act imposes more stringent capital requirements on bank holding companies, which could limit our future capital strategies. The Dodd-Frank Act also increases regulation of derivatives and hedging transactions, which could limit our ability to enter into, or increase the costs associated with, interest rate hedging transactions. Trading in our common stock has been relatively inactive. As a result, stockholders may not be able to quickly and easily sell their common stock, particularly in large quantities. Although our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market and a number of broker- dealers offer to make a market in our common stock on a regular basis, the trading volume of our common stock to date has been limited, averaging approximately 2,746 shares per trading day during the year ended December 31, 2010. There can be no assurance that a continuously active and liquid market for our common stock will develop or, even if such a market did develop, could be maintained. As result, shareholders may find it difficult to sell a significant number of shares at the prevailing market price, which would make it difficult for our shareholders to liquidate their investment in our common stock. Our deposit insurance premiums could be substantially higher in the future, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Market conditions have affected the DIF of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of the insurance reserve to insured deposits. As a result, insured depository institutions may be required to pay significantly higher premiums or additional special assessments. If we are required to pay significantly higher deposit insurance premiums or special assessments, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted. Under current FDIC regulations, each insured depository institution is subject to a risk-based assessment system and, depending on its assigned risk category, is assessed insurance premiums based on the amount of deposits held. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC adopted final rules that are effective April 1, 2011 to implement changes to the deposit insurance assessment rules that were required by the Dodd-Frank Act. In particular, the definition of an institution’s deposit insurance assessment base will change from total deposits to total assets less tangible equity, and the new initial base assessment rates range from 5 to 35 basis points depending on risk category. As under the current FDIC regulations, following the effectiveness of the FDIC’s new deposit insurance assessment rules, a depository institution with a higher assigned risk category will be assessed insurance premiums based on a higher base assessment rate, and thus will pay higher deposit insurance premiums, than the rates applicable to and premiums paid by a similarly situated depository institution with a lower assigned risk category. If the risk category of the Bank ever declines, the Bank’s base deposit insurance assessment rate could increase. If the Bank’s base deposit insurance assessment rate increases, the Company could be required to pay increased FDIC deposit insurance premiums that could have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Deterioration in the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, could exacerbate the market-wide liquidity crisis and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially adversely affect our results of operations. Declines in asset values may result in impairment charges and adversely affect the value of our investments, financial performance, and capital. We maintain an investment portfolio that includes, but is not limited to, government sponsored entity securities, mortgage- backed securities and municipal securities. The market value 22 may be affected by factors other than the underlying performance of the issuer or composition of the bonds themselves, such as ratings downgrades, adverse changes in business climate, and a lack of liquidity for resales of certain investment securities. We periodically, but not less than quarterly, evaluate investments and other assets for impairment indicators. We may be required to record additional impairment charges if our investments suffer a decline in value that is considered other-than-temporary. If we determine that a significant impairment has occurred, we would be required to charge against earnings the credit-related portion on the other-than-temporary impairment, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the periods in which the write-offs occur. Our adoption of Fair Value Option (FVO) accounting could result in income statement volatility. In 2007, we adopted the provisions of ASC 820-10 and account for certain assets and liabilities on a fair value basis. Our objective in adopting the accounting standard was to provide the reader of the financial statements a more realistic view of our balance sheet and the market values of investments and wholesale liabilities. If our matching of assets and liabilities is not precisely achieved for business or economic reasons, more income statement volatility may occur. Unexpected losses in future reporting periods may require us to establish a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. We evaluate our deferred tax assets for recoverability based on all available evidence. This process involves significant management judgment about assumptions that are subject to change from period to period based on changes in tax laws or variances between our future projected operating performance and our actual results. We are required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets if we determine, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In determining the “more likely than not” criterion, we evaluate all positive and negative available evidence as of the end of each reporting period. The realization of the deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income in either the carryback or carryforward periods under applicable tax laws. Such a charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and capital position. Our business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. The majority of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and subject us to significant risk from changes in interest rates. Fluctuations in interest rates are not predictable or controllable. Like most financial institutions, changes in interest rates can impact our net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned from interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings, as well as the valuation of our assets and liabilities. We expect that we will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, this “gap” will negatively impact our earnings. Many factors impact interest rates, including governmental monetary policies, inflation, recession, changes in unemployment, the money supply, and international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign markets. An increase in interest rates may, among other things, reduce the demand for loans and our ability to originate loans. A decrease in the general level of interest rates may affect us through, among other things, increased prepayments on our loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolios and increased competition for deposits. Accordingly, changes in the level of market interest rates affect our net yield on interest-earning assets, loan origination volume, loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolios, and our overall results. Although our asset liability management strategy is designed to control our risk from changes in market interest rates, it may not be able to prevent changes in interest rates from having a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting may not allow us to be able to report our financial results on a timely basis with the desired degree of accuracy. The requirements of Section 404 of the SOX Act and SEC rules and regulations require an annual management report on our internal controls over financial reporting, including, among other matters, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to report our financial results with the desired degree of accuracy or to prevent fraud. 23 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Bankshares has no unresolved comments from the SEC staff. 