Item 1A. Risk Factors We depend on the services of key personnel, and a loss of any of those personnel could disrupt our operations and result in reduced earnings. We are a customer focused and relationship driven organization. Our growth and success has been in large part driven by the personal customer relationships maintained by our executives. Although we have entered into employment contracts with our executive officers, we cannot offer any assurance that they and other key employees will remain employed by us. The loss of services of one or more of these key employees could have a material adverse effect on our operations and possibly result in reduced revenues and earnings. The success of our future recruiting efforts will impact our ability to grow. The implementation of our business strategy will require us to continue to attract, hire, motivate and retain skilled personnel to develop new customer relationships as well as new financial products and services. Many experienced banking professionals employed by our competitors are covered by agreements not to compete or solicit their existing customers if they were to leave their current employment. These agreements make the recruitment of these professionals more difficult. The market for these people is competitive, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting, hiring, motivating or retaining them. In addition, we are deploying resources to attract additional relationship officers, mortgage loan originators, and insurance agents, but cannot guarantee that this investment of money and management time will be successful. The success of our recruiting efforts may impact our ability to grow and future profitability. We have been effective in a specific market niche, which creates an industry concentration. We have made a special effort to obtain deposits from title and mortgage loan closing companies. These are monies held for short periods of time by title and mortgage loan closing companies pending the disbursement of funds in mortgage loan or mortgage loan refinancing transactions. The balances on deposit with us from these depositors tend to fluctuate greatly during any given month, depending on transaction scheduling and overall market conditions. These balances represent a substantial portion of our non-interest bearing deposits, which creates a real estate industry concentration. These deposits are subject to seasonal and cyclical market fluctuations and are particularly sensitive to slower real estate markets. In order to meet the withdrawal needs of these customers, we monitor our liquidity, investment securities and lines of credit on a constant basis. Because of this industry concentration in our deposits, we are exposed to liquidity and concentration risks attendant to changes in real estate markets, which could adversely impact our overall performance. In 2006 we saw a larger decline in the title company deposits than in the past years. We maintained the key client relationships; however, many title companies were impacted in their respective business due to the slower real estate market. Our focus on commercial and real estate loans may increase the risk of credit losses, which would negatively affect our financial results. We offer a variety of loans including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. Many of our loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial) in the greater Washington, D.C. metropolitan area. A downturn in this real estate market, such as a deterioration in the value of this collateral, or in the local or national economy, could adversely affect our customers’ ability to pay these loans, which in turn could adversely affect us. Risk of loan defaults and foreclosures are unavoidable in the banking industry, and we try to limit our exposure to this risk by monitoring our extensions of credit carefully. We cannot fully eliminate credit risk, and as a result credit losses may occur in the future. 16 We may be adversely affected by economic conditions in our market area. Because our lending and other banking activities are concentrated in the greater Washington, D.C. metropolitan area, we will be affected by economic conditions in that market area. Changes in the local economy, particularly in government spending or the technology and communications businesses may influence the growth rate of our loans and deposits, the quality of our loan portfolio and loan and deposit pricing. A significant decline in economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control would impact these local economic conditions and the demand for banking products and services generally could negatively affect our ability to collect loans and could otherwise have a negative effect on our financial condition and performance. Our profitability depends on interest rates and changes in monetary policy may adversely impact us. Our profitability depends in substantial part on our net interest margin, which is the difference between the rates we receive on loans and investments and the rates we pay for deposits and other sources of funds. Our net interest margin depends on many factors that are partly or completely outside of our control, including competition, federal economic, monetary and fiscal policies, and economic conditions generally. Our net interest income will be adversely affected if market interest rates change so that the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings increases faster than the interest we earn on loans and investments. An increase in interest rates could adversely affect borrowers’ ability to pay the principal or interest on existing loans or reduce their desire to borrow more money. This may lead to an increase in our nonperforming assets or a decrease in loan originations, either of which could have a negative effect on our results of operations. In addition, periods of rising interest rates could have an adverse effect on home sales, mortgage refinancings and deposit costs. We try to minimize our exposure to interest rate risk, but we are unable to completely eliminate this risk. Fluctuations in market rates are neither predictable nor controllable and may have a material and negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our allowance for loan losses becomes inadequate, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate to absorb any potential losses in our loan portfolio. Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio and performance of our customers relative to their financial obligations with us. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control and these future losses may exceed our current estimates. Although we believe the allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb probable losses in our loan portfolio, we cannot predict such losses or that our allowance will be adequate in the future. Excessive loan losses could have a material adverse impact on our financial performance. Federal and state regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review our allowance for loan losses. These regulatory agencies may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or to recognize further loan charge offs based upon their judgments, which may be different from ours. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 17 Structural changes to our mortgage banking business may not be adequate to deal with the real estate mortgage market volatility due to key economic issues such as inventory, pricing, production staff and interest rates, which could dampen our financial performance. In late 2006 we announced a major restructuring of our mortgage banking unit, AHF. We decided to exit the stand alone operating business of our subsidiary AHF and created an approximately ten person division within the Bank to serve as a client focused mortgage banking unit. The structural changes were designed to improve operating performance in the future by utilizing a more focused approach to the mortgage banking business. These changes, however, may not have the desired impacts due to several factors. The recent slowing of the local housing market in the metropolitan Washington, D.C. area has led to large levels of inventories, which could affect real estate pricing and, relatedly, mortgage origination fees. The unusual interest rate market has made mortgage financing more difficult for traditional borrowers, which could lead to a decrease in the volume of mortgage originations. These factors, along with normal personnel retention challenges, create a series of business risks which could adversely affect Bankshares’ financial performance. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. The Northern Virginia and the greater Washington, D.C. metropolitan area in which we operate is considered highly attractive from an economic and demographic viewpoint, and is therefore a highly competitive banking and mortgage banking market. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive financial services environment. We compete for loans, deposits, and investment dollars with numerous large, regional and national banks and other community banking institutions, as well as other kinds of financial institutions and enterprises, such as securities firms, insurance companies, savings associations, credit unions, and private lenders. Many competitors offer products and services which we do not and many have substantially greater resources, name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. Some of the financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies and federally insured state-chartered banks, national banks and federal savings institutions. As a result, these nonbank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various services. The differences in resources and regulations may make it harder for us to compete profitably, reduce the rates that we can earn on loans and investments, increase the rates we must offer on deposits and other funds, and adversely affect our overall financial condition and earnings. Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting may not allow us to be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. The requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act and SEC rules and regulations require an annual management report on our internal controls over financial reporting, including, among other matters, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and an attestation report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. Such reports have been included in this annual report on Form 10-K. Management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, including safeguarding of assets as of December 31, 2006 and believes that, as of December 31, 2006, we maintained effective internal control over financial reporting, including safeguarding of assets. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting we may not be able to report our financial results with the desired degree of accuracy or to prevent fraud. 18 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Bankshares has no unresolved comments from the SEC staff. 