ITEM 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information included in this Report, the following factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. Any of the following risks, either alone or taken together, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations. If one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, our actual results may vary materially from what we projected. There may be additional risks that we do not presently know or that we currently believe are immaterial which could also impair our business or financial position. Risks Related to Commercialization If medical doctors do not prescribe our products or the medical profession or patients do not accept our products, our ability to grow or maintain our revenues will be limited. Our business is dependent on market acceptance of our products by physicians, healthcare payors, patients and the medical community. Medical doctors’ willingness to prescribe, and patients’ willingness to accept, our products depend on many factors, including: • perceived safety and efficacy of our products; • convenience and ease of administration; • prevalence and severity of adverse side effects in both clinical trials and commercial use; • availability of alternative treatments; • cost effectiveness; • effectiveness of our marketing strategy and the pricing of our products; • publicity concerning our products or competing products; and • our ability to obtain third-party coverage or reimbursement for our products and, in the case of XIAFLEX™ (collagenase clostridium histolyticum) for Dupuytren’s contracture (“Dupuytren’s”), the procedures performed by physicians while treating patients with XIAFLEX. Even though we have received regulatory approval for Testim® for the treatment of hypogonadism and XIAFLEX for the treatment of adult Dupuytren’s patients with a palpable cord, and even if we receive regulatory approval and satisfy the above criteria for any of our product candidates, physicians may not prescribe, and patients may not accept, our products if we do not promote our products effectively. Factors that could affect our success in marketing our products include: • the adequacy and effectiveness of our sales force and that of any co-promotion partners or international partner’s sales force; • the adequacy and effectiveness of our production, distribution and marketing capabilities and those of our international partners; • the success of competing products, including generics, and treatments; and • the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payors for our products and, in the case of XIAFLEX, the procedures performed by physicians while treating patients with XIAFLEX. If any of our products or product candidates fails to achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to market and sell the products successfully, which would limit our ability to generate revenue and could harm our business. 35 Table of Contents If third-party payors do not reimburse customers for our products or any of our product candidates that are approved for marketing, they might not be used or purchased, and our revenues and profits will not grow. Our revenues and profits depend heavily upon the availability of coverage and reimbursement for the use of our products, and any of our product candidates that are approved for marketing, from third-party healthcare and state and federal government payors, both in the United States (“U.S.”) and in foreign markets. Reimbursement by a third-party payor may depend upon a number of factors, including the third-party payor’s determination the product is: • competitively priced; • safe, effective and medically necessary; • appropriate for the specific patient; • cost-effective; and • neither experimental nor investigational. Since reimbursement approval for a product is required from third-party and government payors, seeking this approval, particularly when seeking approval for a preferred form of reimbursement over other competitive products, is a time-consuming and costly process. Third-party payors may require cost-benefit analysis data from us in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of any product we might bring to market. For any individual third-party payor, we may not be able to provide data sufficient to gain reimbursement on a similar or preferred basis to competitive products or at all. Once reimbursement at an agreed level is approved by a third-party payor, we may lose that reimbursement entirely or we may lose the similar or better reimbursement we receive compared to competitive products. As reimbursement is often approved for a period of time, this risk is greater at the end of the time period, if any, for which the reimbursement was approved. We may face additional challenges with regard to initial reimbursement which could affect our ability to successfully launch and commercialize XIAFLEX for Dupuytren’s, including: • the variability of reimbursement rates likely to be caused by the use of miscellaneous drug codes and procedure codes may discourage physicians from providing XIAFLEX to certain or all patients depending on their insurance coverage; • the initial use of “miscellaneous drug codes” for billing XIAFLEX until such time as XIAFLEX-specific drug codes are approved could result in slow and/or inaccurate reimbursement and thereby discourage product use; • payor and physician confusion surrounding appropriate procedure codes to bill for the administration and follow up procedure related to XIAFLEX until such time as XIAFLEX-specific drug codes are approved could result in slow claims processing times and/or insufficient reimbursement to physicians and discourage physician use; • physicians may have, or believe they have, an economic incentive to perform Dupuytren’s surgery and therefore discourage use; • continued downward pressure on reimbursement rates for services and for products administered incident to a physician’s service may discourage uptake or continued usage; • physicians may decide that managing specialty biologics such as XIAFLEX in their practices, including all of the requirements of the Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (“REMS”) is too complex and cumbersome for them to undertake or continue; • an increase in insurance plans that place more of a cost share liability onto patients may limit patients willingness to pay for XIAFLEX and thereby discourage uptake; and 36 Table of Contents • unforeseen changes in federal health care policy guidelines may negatively impact a physician practice’s willingness to provide novel treatments. Our products and any of our product candidates, if approved, may face competition from lower cost generic or follow-on products. Testim is approved under the provisions of the U.S. Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act that renders it susceptible to potential competition from generic manufacturers via the Abbreviated New Drug Application (“ANDA”) procedure. Generic manufacturers pursuing ANDA approval are not required to conduct costly and time-consuming clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of their products; rather, they are permitted to rely on the innovator’s data regarding safety and efficacy. Thus, generic manufacturers can sell their products at prices much lower than those charged by the innovative pharmaceutical companies who have incurred substantial expenses associated with the research and development of the drug product. The ANDA procedure includes provisions allowing generic manufacturers to challenge the effectiveness of the innovator’s patent protection long prior to the generic manufacturer actually commercializing their products through the paragraph IV certification procedure. In recent years, generic manufacturers have used paragraph IV certifications extensively to challenge patents on a wide array of innovative pharmaceuticals, and we expect this trend to continue and to implicate drug products with even relatively small total revenues. In October 2008, we and our licensor, CPEX Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“CPEX”), received notice that Upsher-Smith Laboratories, Inc. (“Upsher-Smith”) filed an ANDA containing a paragraph IV certification seeking approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) to market a generic version of Testim prior to the January 2025 expiration of CPEX’s U.S. Patent No. 7,320,968 (the “968 Patent”). The ‘968 Patent, which Bentley Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Bentley”) assigned to CPEX in June 2008, covers a method for maintaining effective blood serum testosterone levels for treating a hypogonadal male using Testim and is listed in Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations (commonly known as the “Orange Book”), published by the FDA. The paragraph IV certification sets forth allegations that the ‘968 Patent will not be infringed by Upsher-Smith’s manufacture, use or sale of the product for which the ANDA was submitted. In December 2008, we filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Upsher-Smith (the “Upsher-Smith Litigation”) that remains pending. Upsher-Smith has alleged that its proposed generic version of Testim would not infringe the ‘968 patent, and that the ‘968 patent is invalid. Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, final FDA approval of Upsher-Smith’s proposed generic product will be stayed until the earlier of 30 months from receipt of the paragraph IV certification (April 2011) or resolution of the patent infringement lawsuit. Should Upsher-Smith receive an approval of its generic version of Testim from the FDA, it cannot lawfully launch its generic version of Testim in the U.S. before the earlier of the expiration of the currently pending 30-month stay or a district court decision in its favor. In February 2009, the Company filed a Citizen’s Petition with the FDA requesting that Upsher-Smith be required to perform a variety of studies to demonstrate that the inactive ingredients and formulation of the proposed product do not compromise its safety or efficacy. An FDA response to the Company’s Citizen’s Petition was received in August 2009. The FDA agreed with some of the statements made in the Citizen’s Petition regarding the testing required for generic versions of Testim and disagreed with other statements. Although not commenting upon any filing in particular, the FDA did state that “the practical effect of this determination is that any application for a testosterone gel product that has different penetration enhancers than the reference listed drug cannot be submitted as an abbreviated new drug application (ANDA) and, instead, will have to be submitted as a NDA under section 505(b) of the [Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act].” The introduction of a generic version of Testim or Androgel could have an adverse impact on the branded gel market. Although Testim has a BX rating, meaning that pharmacists are prohibited from substituting Testim with Androgel, or a generic version of Androgel, a less expensive testosterone gel product could still have a material adverse affect on Testim market share and/or Testim’s formulary status, and therefore could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 37 Table of Contents Biologics or “biotech drugs”, such as XIAFLEX for Dupuytren’s, are not currently considered susceptible to an abbreviated approval procedure, either due to current U.S. law or FDA practice in approving biologic products. However, the U.S. Congress is expected to continue to explore, and ultimately enact, legislation that would establish a procedure for the FDA to accept ANDA-like abbreviated applications for the approval of “follow-on,” “biosimilar” or “comparable” biotech drugs. Such legislation is also expected to contain provisions concerning some period of market exclusivity for biologics or “biotech drugs.” Such legislation has already been adopted in the EU. If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities. The commercialization of our products and the clinical testing, manufacture and commercialization of our product candidates, if approved, involves significant exposure to product liability claims. We have clinical trial and product liability insurance that covers our products and the clinical trials of our product candidates that we believe is adequate in both scope and amount and has been placed with what we believe to be reputable insurers. We are self-insured for the first $1.0 million of liability under these policies. Our product liability policies have been written on a claims-made basis. If any of our product candidates are approved for marketing, we may seek additional coverage. We cannot predict all of the adverse health events that our products or product candidates may cause. As a result, our current and future coverages may not be adequate to protect us from all the liabilities that we may incur. If losses from product liability claims exceed our insurance coverage, we may incur substantial liabilities that exceed our financial resources. Whether or not we are ultimately successful in product liability litigation, such litigation could consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources, and might result in adverse publicity, all of which would impair our business. We may not be able to maintain our clinical trial insurance or product liability insurance at an acceptable cost, if at all, and this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential claims or losses. If we are required to pay a product liability claim, we may not have sufficient financial resources and our business and results of operations may be harmed. Testim competes in a very competitive market, and if we are unable to compete effectively with the other companies that produce products for the treatment of urologic or sexual health disorders, our ability to generate revenues will be limited. The testosterone replacement therapy (“TRT”) market is highly competitive. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our share of the market from the competition. Potential competitors in North America, Europe and elsewhere include major pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions and government agencies. Other pharmaceutical companies may develop generic versions of Testim or any products that compete with Testim that do not infringe our patents or other proprietary rights, and, as a result, our business may be adversely affected. For example, because the ingredients of Testim are commercially available to third parties, it is possible that competitors may design formulations, propose dosages or develop methods of administration that would be outside the scope of the claims of one or more, or of all, of the patent rights that we in-license. This would enable their products to effectively compete with Testim. Governmental and other pressures to reduce pharmaceutical costs may result in physicians writing prescriptions for these generic products. Increased competition from the sale of competing generic pharmaceutical products could cause a material decrease in revenue from Testim. AndroGel The primary competition for Testim in the TRT market is Androgel (testosterone gel) 1% CIII, marketed by Solvay Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Solvay”). In February 2010, Abbott Laboratories, Inc. (“Abbott”) completed an acquisition of Solvay.. Solvay launched AndroGel three years prior to Testim giving the brand a significant advantage in the TRT gel market. Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Watson”) began co-promoting AndroGel with Solvay in late 2006, and Par Pharmaceutical Companies, Inc. (“Par”) began co-promoting AndroGel in early 2007, each pursuant to patent lawsuit settlement agreements with Solvay. In January 2009, the 38 Table of Contents U.S. Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) and a number of private parties filed actions against Solvay, Watson and Par alleging that their respective 2006 patent lawsuit settlements related to AndroGel are unlawful. All actions were consolidated in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia. In February 2010, the court dismissed the FTC’s claims and some of the private party claims. Certain private party claims remain pending. Solvay and its co-promotion partners collectively had more than 600 sales representatives detailing AndroGel although it remains unclear what resources Abbott will put behind the brand. According to IMS, as of December 31, 2009, AndroGel accounted for 77.7% of the gel prescriptions. Other Delivery Options Testim also competes with other TRT products such as short-acting injectables, patches, orals, a buccal tablet and injectable pellets. The injectables have experienced significant growth in the market due to their low cost compared to the transdermal options. This growth coincides with the economic downturn that the U.S. experienced in 2009. There are also a significant number of patients who prefer getting a shot every two to three weeks instead of utilizing a daily application of another product. Physicians perceive the disadvantage of the injectables as being the fact that many patients’ testosterone levels rise past the normal barrier of 1000 ng/dl which leads to a wide fluctuation of testosterone levels in a patient and the potential for side effects such as gynecomastia. Androderm® is a transdermal testosterone patch marketed by Watson. Androderm, the leading patch product, has decreased in share in the last year and accounted for approximately 5.9% of total TRT prescriptions in December 2009, down from 6.5% in December 2008. The buccal therapy accounted for less than 1% of total TRT prescriptions in December 2009. Testopel® is an implantable testosterone pellet that is administered every four to six months. Generic Competition In July 2003, Watson and Par filed ANDAs with the FDA to be approved as generics for AndroGel. In response to these ANDAs, Solvay filed patent infringement lawsuits against these two companies to block the approval and marketing of the generic products. In 2006, all the subject companies reached an agreement pursuant to which Watson and Par agreed not to bring a generic to Androgel to the market until August 2015. During this time frame, Solvay, Watson and Par will co-promote AndroGel. In June 2009, Perrigo Israel Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Perrigo”) filed an ANDA with a paragraph IV certification seeking the approval of a generic version of Androgel in the United States. The paragraph IV certification procedure challenges a U.S. patent relating to Androgel which runs through the next decade. In its letter to the company, Perrigo asserted that it did not infringe the AndroGel patent because its proposed testosterone gel product contains a different formulation than the formulation protected by the AndroGel patent. In contrast, the proposed testosterone gel products that were the subject of earlier ANDAs filed by other companies, and which were the subject of prior patent litigation brought by the company, purported to be identical to the AndroGel formulation. To date, Solvay has not initiated patent infringement litigation against Perrigo. The introduction of a generic version of Androgel would have an adverse impact on the branded gel market, including taking a significant portion of branded Androgel business. Although Testim has a BX rating, meaning that pharmacists are prohibited from substituting Testim with Androgel, or a generic version of Androgel, a less expensive generic testosterone gel product could still have a material adverse affect on Testim market share and/or Testim’s formulary status, and therefore could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In October 2008, we and our licensor, CPEX, received notice that Upsher-Smith filed an ANDA containing a paragraph IV certification seeking approval from the FDA to market a generic version of Testim prior to the January 2025 expiration of ‘968 Patent. The ‘968 Patent, which Bentley assigned to CPEX in June 2008, covers a method for maintaining effective blood serum testosterone levels for treating a hypogonadal male using Testim and is listed in the Orange Book, published by the FDA. The paragraph IV certification sets forth allegations that the ‘968 Patent will not be infringed by Upsher-Smith’s manufacture, use or sale of the product for which the ANDA was submitted. In December 2008, we filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Upsher-Smith that remains pending. Upsher-Smith has alleged that its proposed generic version of Testim would not infringe the ‘968 patent, and that the ‘968 patent is invalid. Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, final FDA approval of Upsher-Smith’s proposed generic product will be stayed until the earlier of 30 months from receipt 39 Table of Contents of the paragraph IV certification (April 2011) or resolution of the patent infringement lawsuit. Should Upsher- Smith receive a tentative approval of its generic version of Testim from the FDA, it cannot lawfully launch its generic version of Testim in the U.S. before the earlier of the expiration of the currently pending 30-month stay or a district court decision in its favor. In October 2009, six additional patents covering Testim were issued and have been listed in the Orange Book. These additional patents may provide us with further market protection. Upsher-Smith will not be able to lawfully launch a generic version of Testim in the U.S. without the necessary final approval from the FDA. In February 2009, the Company filed a Citizen’s Petition with the FDA requesting that Upsher-Smith be required to perform a variety of studies to demonstrate that the inactive ingredients and formulation of the proposed product do not compromise its safety or efficacy. An FDA response to the Company’s Citizen’s Petition was received in August 2009. The FDA agreed with some of the statements made in the Citizen’s Petition regarding the testing required for generic versions of Testim and disagreed with other statements. Although not commenting upon any filing in particular, the FDA did state that “the practical effect of this determination is that any application for a testosterone gel product that has different penetration enhancers than the reference listed drug cannot be submitted as an abbreviated new drug application (ANDA) and, instead, will have to be submitted as a NDA under section 505(b) of the [Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act].” Other pharmaceutical companies may develop generic versions of any non-biologic products that we commercialize that do not infringe our patents or other proprietary rights. Governmental and other cost containment pressures may result in physicians writing prescriptions for these generic products or allow physicians to substitute AB-rated generics. Future Delivery Options In addition to potential generic competition, several other pharmaceutical companies have TRT products in development that may be approved for marketing in the U.S. and the rest of the world. Based on publicly available information, we believe that these products are in the development phases noted below. Phase III—In 2009, Endo Pharmaceuticals (“Endo”) acquired Indevus Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Indevus”), the makers of Aveed (previously known as “Nebido” in the U.S.) as well as the U.S. marketing rights for Prostrakan’s Fortesta (also known as Fortigel, a 2% gel). Aveed’s Prescription Drug User Fee Act (“PDUFA”) date was September 2, 2009 and the FDA announced that it would require an additional 90 days to review the filing. In December 2009, Endo received a complete response letter from the FDA, asking for more information on rare but serious incidents of anaphylactic reactions and pulmonary oil microembolism among patients taking Aveed. The FDA also said in its complete response letter that Endo’s risk mitigation program for the drug is inadequate. It is not known whether Endo will resubmit the application for Aveed. The FDA also sent a complete response letter to Endo regarding Fortesta in October 2009. Endo has announced that it expects to respond to the FDA’s concerns with respect to Fortesta by mid-2010. Abbott (formerly Solvay) is awaiting FDA feedback on Androgel 1.62%, a high concentration gel. The PDUFA date was at the end of December 2009. However, the FDA notified Abbott that the agency extended its review of the NDA for Androgel 1.62% by 90 days. Abbott expects the FDA to issue an action by the end of the first quarter 2010. BioSante Pharmaceuticals/Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. are developing a testosterone gel (Bio-T-Gel) for male hypogonadism and have announced they expect to submit a NDA in the first half of 2010. Acrux Limited is developing a metered-dose lotion which completed phase III in the third quarter of 2009 and was submitted to the FDA in January 2010. Phase II—Clarus Therapeutics, Inc. is developing an oral testosterone which is in phase II. Other—Another potential introduction into the marketplace is an oral therapy called Androxal from Repros Therapeutics, Inc. (“Repros”). This molecule is designed to restore normal testosterone production in 40 Table of Contents males rather than externally replacing testosterone like the current alternatives. However, Repros has been informed by the FDA that testosterone levels or Quality of Life measures will not be acceptable endpoints for phase III trials for hypogonadism. Hence, Repros has announced that it is considering other potential indications. Repros also announced that they participated in a teleconference with the Division of Reproductive and Urologic Products of the FDA on January 25, 2010. The primary purpose of the meeting was to gain a better understanding of the FDA’s position regarding the use of Repros’ oral Androxal® product in the treatment of men with secondary hypogonadism wishing to preserve their fertility. Repros’ data supports the notion that the negative feedback of exogenous testosterone administered by any route suppresses the hypothalamic–pituitary axis and hence spermatogenesis. The discussion with the FDA focused on two issues. First, the FDA requested that Repros propose a label that better defines the population of individuals for whom Repros believes will benefit from the use of Androxal. Second, the FDA requested Repros conduct a literature review of the incidence of infertility associated with the use of exogenous testosterone as supportive of Repros’ data. The FDA requested that Repros provide such information. During the course of the meeting Repros noted that if the FDA concurred with the proposed indication, Repros would like to request a special protocol assessment (“SPA”). The FDA responded that the issues noted above should be resolved first before undertaking a SPA. MacroChem Corporation has developed a testosterone gel that has completed phase I and is currently looking for a partner to assist with entering phase II development. Other new treatments are being sought for TRT, including a new class of drugs called Selective Androgen Receptor Modulators (“SARMs”), as well as enhanced hydroalcoholic gel formulation of hydrotestosterone. These products are in development and their future impact on the treatment of testosterone deficiency is unknown. Lipocine Inc. (“Lipocine”) is also developing an oral testosterone product that we believe is in phase I at this time. In May 2009, Solvay, recently acquired by Abbott, announced a license agreement with Lipocine that provides Solvay exclusive rights to develop and commercialize an oral formulation of testosterone. If testosterone replacement therapies are perceived, or are found, to create health risks, our sales of Testim may decrease and our operations may be harmed. Publications have, from time to time, suggested potential health risks associated with TRT. Potential health risks are described in various articles, including a 2002 article published in Endocrine Practice and a 1999 article published in the International Journal of Andrology. The potential health risks detailed are fluid retention, sleep apnea, breast tenderness or enlargement, increased red blood cells, development of clinical prostate disease, including prostate cancer, increased cardiovascular disease risk and the suppression of sperm production. In April 2009, FDA informed the Company that it had become aware, through spontaneous post-marketing adverse event reports and peer-reviewed biomedical literature, of cases of secondary exposure of children to testosterone due to drug transfer from adult males using testosterone gel drug products. FDA considered this information to be “new safety information” and requested changes to the prescribing information for Testim, including a “boxed warning”, which is used to highlight warning information that is especially important to the prescriber. FDA also required a REMS that includes assessments and a Medication Guide to inform patients. It is possible that studies on the effects of TRT could demonstrate these or other health risks. This, as well as negative publicity about the risks of hormone replacement therapy, including TRT, could adversely affect patient or prescriber attitudes and impact Testim sales. In addition, investors may become concerned about these issues and decide to sell our common stock. These factors could adversely affect our business and the price of our common stock. International commercialization of our products and our product candidates faces significant obstacles. We may commercialize some of our products, and product candidates, if they are approved, internationally on our own or through collaborative relationships with foreign partners. We have limited foreign regulatory, clinical and commercial resources. We may not be able to enter into collaboration agreements with appropriate partners for important foreign markets on acceptable terms, or at all. Future collaborations with foreign partners may not be effective or profitable for us. 41 Table of Contents We could be negatively impacted by future interpretation or implementation of federal and state fraud and abuse laws, including anti-kickback laws, false claims laws and federal and state anti-referral laws. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws, false claims laws and physician self-referral laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, Department of Defense and Veterans’ health programs. We have not been challenged by a governmental authority under any of these laws and believe that our operations are in compliance with such laws. However, because of the far-reaching nature of these laws, we may be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. Health care fraud and abuse regulations are complex, and even minor, inadvertent irregularities can potentially give rise to claims that the law has been violated. Any violations of these laws could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If there is a change in law, regulation or administrative or judicial interpretations, we may have to change our business practices or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could become subject to false claims litigation under federal or state statutes, which can lead to civil money penalties, criminal fines and imprisonment, and/or exclusion from participation in federal health care programs. These false claims statutes include the federal False Claims Act, which allows any person and/or the government to bring suit alleging the false or fraudulent submission of claims for payment under federal programs or other violations of the statute and to share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. Such suits, known as qui tam actions, have increased significantly in recent years and have increased the risk that companies like us may have to defend a false claim action. We could also become subject to similar false claims litigation under state statutes. If we are unsuccessful in defending any such action, such action may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be exposed to liability claims associated with the use of hazardous materials and chemicals. Our research and development activities and our commercial product, Testim, involve the use of testosterone and large amounts of alcohol which are classified as hazardous materials and chemicals. XIAFLEX, approved in the U.S. for the treatment of Dupuytren’s, and in development for the treatment of Peyronie’s and Frozen Shoulder syndrome, is a biologic product. Biologic products may present a manufacturing health hazard due to risk of infection with the bacterial cell line used to produce the product or with potential bacteriophage contamination with the fermentation. Although we believe that our safety procedures for using, storing, handling, manufacturing and disposing of these materials comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from these materials. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages and any liability could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous or radioactive materials and waste products may require us to incur substantial compliance costs that could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. To our knowledge, we have not been the subject of any investigation by any agency or authority for failure to comply with any rules or regulations applicable to hazardous materials or chemicals. We do not maintain specific insurance for the handling of biological, hazardous and radioactive materials. We have contracts with third-party providers for the storage and disposal of hazardous waste and believe that any claims against us in these areas would be the responsibility of these third parties. However, we may be held responsible for these claims despite the fact that we have contracted with third parties for the storage and disposal of hazardous waste. If we are exposed to these types of claims, we could be held responsible for liabilities that exceed our financial resources, which could severely affect our operations. 42 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Manufacture of XIAFLEX We have limited experience in manufacturing pharmaceutical and biologic products and may encounter difficulties in the manufacture of the active ingredient of XIAFLEX at our facilities in Horsham, Pennsylvania which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or delay or disrupt manufacture of XIAFLEX and development timelines. The manufacture of pharmaceutical and biologic products requires significant expertise and capital investment. Although we leased our facilities in Horsham in order to have direct control over the manufacturing of the active ingredient of XIAFLEX, for which we expect to be the sole supplier, we have limited experience in manufacturing XIAFLEX or any other pharmaceutical product. Biologics, such as XIAFLEX, require processing steps that are highly complex and more difficult than those required for most chemical pharmaceuticals. We may encounter difficulties with the manufacture of the active ingredient of XIAFLEX which could delay or disrupt our manufacture of XIAFLEX and development timelines, require write-offs which may affect our financial results, result in product recalls, or otherwise materially affect our results of operations. These problems with manufacturing may include: • our ability to develop, implement and improve our internal manufacturing capability; • difficulties with production and yields, including the viability of the working cell bank and cell growth at lower than expected levels, scale-up and achieving adequate capacity for such supply; • availability of raw materials and supplies; • contamination issues; • equipment failures; • quality control and assurance; • shortages of qualified personnel; • compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations; and • lack of capital funding. Furthermore, our manufacturing operations expose us to a variety of significant risks, including: • product defects and potential product liability claims; • contamination of product or product loss; • environmental liabilities or claims resulting from our production process or contamination at our Horsham facilities; • sudden loss of inventory; • reduction of the commercialization payments owed by Pfizer under our agreement and Pfizer gaining the right to engage a third party manufacturer for XIAFLEX; • Pfizer Inc. (“Pfizer”) termination of the license agreement for breach of contract; and • inability to manufacture products at a cost that is competitive with third party manufacturing operations. If we are unable to maintain regulatory approval for XIAFLEX, we may not have an alternate use for our Horsham facilities but will be required to make payments under our lease. We have entered into leases for our facilities in Horsham, the first of which expires on January 1, 2017. If we are unable to maintain regulatory approval for XIAFLEX for Dupuytren’s, we may not have an alternate use for the Horsham facilities but will be required to make payments under our leases. As of December 31, 2009, the total future minimum lease payments of these leases during their initial noncancellable terms are approximately $29.5 million. 43 Table of Contents Our Horsham facilities are subject to regulatory oversight, which may delay or disrupt our development and commercialization efforts for XIAFLEX. We must ensure that all of the processes, methods, equipment and facilities employed in the manufacture of XIAFLEX at our Horsham facility are compliant with the current Good Manufacturing Practices (“cGMP”). The cGMP requirements govern quality control of the manufacturing process and documentation policies and procedures. Compliance with cGMP requires record keeping and quality control to assure that the clinical and commercial product meets applicable specifications and other requirements. Some of our Horsham facilities were inspected by regulatory agencies after the filing for approval of XIAFLEX with regulatory authorities. If a subsequent inspection by regulatory authorities indicates that there are deficiencies including non-compliance with regulatory requirements, we could be required to take remedial actions, stop production or close ours Horsham facilities, which would disrupt the manufacturing processes, limit the supplies of XIAFLEX and delay clinical trials and subsequent licensure. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we may not be permitted to sell our products or may be limited in the jurisdictions in which we are permitted to sell them. Future noncompliance with any applicable regulatory requirements may result in refusal by regulatory authorities to allow use of XIAFLEX made at our Horsham facilities in clinical trials, refusal of the government to allow distribution of XIAFLEX for commercialization, criminal prosecution and fines, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, prohibitions or limitations on the commercial sale of products or refusal to allow the entering into of federal and state supply contracts. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third-Party Manufacturers and Service Providers Since we currently rely on third-party manufacturers, suppliers and packagers, we may be unable to control the availability or cost of manufacturing and packaging our products, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We currently do not manufacture Testim or any of our product candidates, except for the active ingredient for XIAFLEX for which we are the sole source of supply. Hollister-Stier Laboratories LLC (“Hollister-Stier”) fills and lyophilizes the XIAFLEX bulk drug substance that we manufacture and produces sterile diluent. Testim is manufactured for us by DPT Laboratories, LTD. (“DPT”), under a contract that expires on December 31, 2010. We have qualified a back-up supplier to manufacture Testim. We also rely on third parties for certain packaging services for our products. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment. Hollister-Stier, DPT, our back-up supplier for Testim, or any other third-party manufacturer or packager may encounter difficulties in production. These problems may include: • difficulties with production costs and yields; • availability of raw materials and supplies; • quality control and assurance; • damage to, or complete loss of, raw materials, supplies or finished product; • shortages of qualified personnel; • compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations; and • lack of capital funding. Hollister-Stier, DPT, or any of our other third-party manufacturers and packagers may not perform as agreed or may terminate its agreement with us, which would adversely impact our ability to produce and sell our products or produce our product candidates for use in clinical trials. The number of third-party manufacturers with the expertise, required regulatory approvals and facilities to manufacture bulk drug substance on a 44 Table of Contents commercial scale is limited, and it would take a significant amount of time to arrange and receive regulatory approval for alternative arrangements. We may not be able to contract for the manufacturing of our products or any of our product candidates on acceptable terms, if at all, which would materially impair our business. Any of these factors could increase our costs and result in us being unable to effectively commercialize or develop our products. Furthermore, if any third-party manufacturer fails to deliver the required commercial quantities of finished product on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, we may be unable to meet the demand for our products and we may lose potential revenues. We currently rely on single source suppliers for certain raw materials and services for manufacturing XIAFLEX and the loss of any of these suppliers could prevent us from selling XIAFLEX, which would materially harm our business. We rely on third-party suppliers for our supply of raw materials for the manufacture of the XIAFLEX bulk drug substance. Certain raw materials are available to us from only limited sources and are sole sourced. We do not have supply agreements in place with all of our raw material suppliers. We rely on one supplier for lyophilization and sterile diluent and we rely on one other supplier for labeling and packaging of drug product. If any of the suppliers stops manufacturing, or if we are unable to procure raw materials or services on commercially favorable terms, or if we are not able to obtain them in a timely manner, we may be unable to continue to produce or sell XIAFLEX on commercially viable terms, if at all. In addition, the limited number of suppliers of these raw materials and services with whom we do not have supply agreements in place may provide such companies with greater opportunity to raise their prices. Any increase in price for these raw materials or services may reduce our gross margins. We rely on a single source supplier and a limited number of suppliers for two of the primary ingredients for Testim and the loss of any of these suppliers could prevent us from selling Testim, which would materially harm our business. We rely on third-party suppliers for our supply of testosterone and CPD, two key ingredients of Testim. Testosterone is available to us from only two sources. We rely exclusively on one outside source for our supply of CPD. We do not have any agreements with these suppliers regarding these key ingredients. If either of the two sources that produce testosterone stops manufacturing it, or if we are unable to procure testosterone on commercially favorable terms, or if we are not able to obtain it in a timely manner, we may be unable to continue to produce or sell Testim on commercially viable terms, if at all. In addition, if our third-party source of CPD stops manufacturing pharmaceutical grade CPD, or does not make CPD available to us on commercially favorable terms, we may be unable to continue to produce or sell Testim on commercially viable terms, if at all. Furthermore, the limited number of suppliers of testosterone and CPD may provide such companies with greater opportunity to raise their prices. Any increase in price for testosterone or CPD may reduce our gross margins. XIAFLEX is distributed through a small managed network of third-party distributors and we rely on a single third party as a contact center of approved healthcare providers; if any of the distributors fail or refuse to distribute XIAFLEX on commercially favorable terms, or at all, or if the contact center fails or refuses to perform its function, our business could be adversely affected. We distribute XIAFLEX through a small managed network of third party specialty distributors, specialty pharmacies and a third party logistics supplier that generally sell, distribute or provide XIAFLEX to hospitals or physicians. In addition, we rely on a single third party as a contact center service for approved customers. All of our XIAFLEX shipments are through these distributors. Our business would be harmed if any of these distributors refused to distribute XIAFLEX or refuse to purchase XIAFLEX on commercially favorable terms to us. It is possible that distribution partners could decide to change their policies or fees, or both, in the future. This could result in their refusal to distribute smaller volume products, or cause higher product distribution costs, lower margins or the need to find alternative methods of distributing products. Such alternative methods may not 45 Table of Contents exist or may not be economically viable. In addition, we are subject to a number of risks associated with our dependence on third parties for distribution of XIAFLEX which could adversely affect sales of XIAFLEX and our business, including: • the single third party contact center we rely on could fail or refuse to provide service, or suffer systems failures; • one of the small number of third party distributors we rely on to warehouse and distribute XIAFLEX could experience damage to, or complete loss of, XIAFLEX inventory in its possession; and • one of the small number of third party distributors we rely on to warehouse and distribute XIAFLEX could fail or refuse to comply with regulatory or contractual obligations, which could negatively impact sales of XIAFLEX. If we are unable to grow our sales, marketing or distribution capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to perform some of these functions, we will not be able to grow our business. As an organization, we have a limited history in sales, marketing and distribution. To directly market and distribute Testim, XIAFLEX for Dupuytren’s in the U.S., or any of our product candidates which receive regulatory approval, we must continue to enhance our sales and marketing efforts and our distribution capabilities. For our direct sales efforts, we will need to hire additional salespeople in order to grow and manage any turnover that occurs in our sales force. For some market opportunities, we may need to enter into co-promotion agreements or other licensing arrangements with pharmaceutical or biotechnology firms in order to increase the commercial success of our products. We may not be able to grow our direct sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or enter into future co-promotion or similar licensing arrangements with third parties in a timely manner, or on acceptable terms. To the extent that we enter into future co-promotion or other licensing arrangements, our product revenues may be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our products, and some or all of the revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, and these efforts may not be successful or our future partners may not devote sufficient resources to our products. Additionally, building marketing and distribution capabilities may be more expensive than we anticipate, requiring us to divert capital from other intended purposes or preventing us from building our marketing and distribution capabilities to the desired levels. Our third-party manufacturers are subject to regulatory oversight, which may delay or disrupt our development and commercialization efforts. Third-party manufacturers of our products or product candidates must ensure that all of the processes, methods and equipment are compliant with cGMP, and conduct extensive audits of vendors, contract laboratories and suppliers. The cGMP requirements govern quality control of the manufacturing process and documentation policies and procedures. Compliance by third-party manufacturers with cGMP requires record keeping and quality control to assure that the product meets applicable specifications and other requirements. Manufacturing facilities are subject to inspection by regulatory agencies at any time. If an inspection by regulatory authorities indicates that there are deficiencies, third-party manufacturers could be required to take remedial actions, stop production or close the facility, which would disrupt the manufacturing processes and limit the supplies of Testim or our product candidates. If they fail to comply with these requirements, we also may be required to curtail the clinical trials of our product candidates, which are also supplied by these manufacturers, and may not be permitted to sell our products or may be limited in the jurisdictions in which we are permitted to sell them. Over 90% of our Testim shipments are to only three customers; if any of these customers refuse to distribute Testim on commercially favorable terms, or at all, our business will be adversely affected. We sell Testim to wholesale drug distributors and chain drug stores who generally sell products to retail pharmacies, hospitals and other institutional customers. We do not promote Testim to these customers, and they 46 Table of Contents do not determine Testim prescription demand. However, over 90% of our product shipments during the period covered by this Report were to only three customers: AmerisourceBergen Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc. and McKesson Corporation. Our business would be harmed if any of these customers refused to distribute Testim or refuse to purchase Testim on commercially favorable terms to us. It is possible that wholesalers could decide to change their policies or fees, or both, in the future. This could result in their refusal to distribute smaller volume products, or cause higher product distribution costs, lower margins or the need to find alternative methods of distributing products. Such alternative methods may not exist or may not be economically viable. Due to our reliance on contract research organizations or other third parties to assist us in conducting clinical trials, we are unable to directly control all aspects of our clinical trials. Currently, we rely in part on third parties to conduct our clinical trials. As a result, we have had and will continue to have less control over the conduct of the clinical trials, the timing and completion of the trials and the management of data developed through the trial than would be the case if we were relying entirely upon our own staff. Communicating with outside parties can also be challenging, potentially leading to mistakes as well as difficulties in coordinating activities. Outside parties may: • have staffing difficulties; • fail to comply with contractual obligations; • experience regulatory compliance issues; or • undergo changes in priorities or may become financially distressed. These factors may adversely affect their willingness or ability to conduct our trials. We may experience unexpected cost increases that are beyond our control. Problems with the timeliness or quality of the work of a contract research organization may lead us to seek to terminate the relationship and use an alternative service provider. However, making this change may be costly and may delay our trials, and contractual restrictions may make such a change difficult or impossible. Our contracts with the contract research organizations on which we currently rely are generally terminable upon 30-days prior written notice. If we must replace any of these contract research organizations or any other contract research organization we may use in the future to conduct our clinical trials, our trials may have to be suspended until we find another contract research organization that offers comparable services. The time that it takes us to find alternative organizations may cause a delay in the commercialization of our product candidates or may cause us to incur significant expenses to replicate data that may be lost. Although we do not believe that the contract research organizations on which we rely offer services that are not available elsewhere, it may be difficult to find a replacement organization that can conduct our trials in an acceptable manner and at an acceptable cost. Any delay in or inability to complete our clinical trials could significantly compromise our ability to secure regulatory approval of the relevant product candidate and preclude our ability to commercialize the product, thereby limiting our ability to generate revenue from the sales of product candidates, which may result in a decrease in our stock price. Risks Related to Intellectual Property We have only limited patent protection for our products and our product candidates, and we may not be able to obtain, maintain and protect proprietary rights necessary for the development and commercialization of our products or our product candidates. Our business and competitive positions are dependent upon our ability to obtain and protect our proprietary position for our products and our product candidates in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere. Because of the substantial length of time and expense associated with development of new products, we, along with the rest of the biopharmaceutical industry, place considerable importance on obtaining and maintaining patent protection for 47 Table of Contents new technologies, products and processes. The patent positions of pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including ours, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Our and our licensors’ patents and patent applications may not protect our technologies and products because, among other things: • there is no guarantee that any of our or our licensors’ pending patent applications will result in issued patents; • we may develop additional proprietary technologies that are not patentable; • there is no guarantee that any patents issued to us, our collaborators or our licensors will provide us with any competitive advantage or cover our product candidates; • there is no guarantee that any patents issued to us or our collaborators or our licensors will not be challenged, circumvented or invalidated by third parties; and • there is no guarantee that any patents previously issued to others or issued in the future will not have an adverse effect on our ability to do business. We attempt to protect our intellectual property position by filing or obtaining licenses to patent applications and, where appropriate, patent applications in other countries related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business. Testosterone, the active ingredient in Testim, is off-patent and is included in competing TRT products. In the U.S., the ‘968 patent covers a method for maintaining blood serum testosterone levels for treating a hypogonadal male using Testim and is listed in the Orange Book. The ‘968 patent expires in January 2025. Six additional patents issued covering Testim in October 2009 and have been listed in the Orange Book. They expire in April 2023. CPEX also has filed continuation applications that are pending. In October 2008, we and our licensor, CPEX, received notice that Upsher-Smith filed an ANDA containing a paragraph IV certification seeking approval from the FDA to market a generic version of Testim prior to the January 2025 expiration of ‘968 Patent. The ‘968 Patent, which Bentley assigned to CPEX in June 2008, covers a method for maintaining effective blood serum testosterone levels for treating a hypogonadal male using Testim and is listed in the Orange Book. The paragraph IV certification sets forth allegations that the ‘968 Patent will not be infringed by Upsher-Smith’s manufacture, use or sale of the product for which the ANDA was submitted. In December 2008, we filed the Upsher-Smith Litigation which remains pending. Upsher-Smith has alleged that its proposed generic version of Testim would not infringe the ‘968 patent, and that the ‘968 patent is invalid. Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, final FDA approval of Upsher-Smith’s proposed generic product will be stayed until the earlier of 30 months beginning on the date of receipt of the paragraph IV certification (April 2011) or resolution of the patent infringement lawsuit. Should Upsher-Smith receive an approval of its generic version of Testim from the FDA, it cannot lawfully launch its generic version of Testim in the U.S. before the earlier of the expiration of the currently pending 30-month stay or a district court decision in its favor. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs related to the Upsher-Smith Litigation and regulatory actions. We may incur costs related to any other legal and regulatory actions that we may undertake. The Upsher-Smith Litigation could result in a finding that Upsher-Smith’s proposed testosterone product does not infringe the ‘968 Patent or that the ‘968 Patent is invalid and/or unenforceable. An adverse outcome in the Upsher-Smith Litigation or any such legal action could result in one or more generic versions of Testim being launched in the U.S. before the expiration of the ‘968 Patent in January 2025. The introduction of a generic version to Testim or AndroGel could have a material adverse affect on our ability to successfully execute our business strategy to maximize the value of Testim as we continue to develop our product pipeline and therefore could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In Canada, there are two patents covering Testim, one that expired in January 2010 and another that expires in April 2023. The patent issued by the European Patent Office covering Testim expires in April 2023. CPEX 48 Table of Contents also has submitted a patent application in Japan that is awaiting examination. All of these patents and any patents that issue from the pending applications are included in our license from CPEX. XIAFLEX, licensed from BioSpecifics Technologies Corp. (“BioSpecifics”) is covered by two method of use patents in the U.S., one for the treatment of Dupuytren’s and one for the treatment of Peyronie’s disease (“Peyronie’s”). The Dupuytren’s patent, which was issued in December 2007 after a reissue proceeding, expires in 2014, and the Peyronie’s patent expires in 2019. The patents are limited to the use of XIAFLEX for the treatment of Dupuytren’s and Peyronie’s, respectively, with certain dose ranges and/or concentration ranges. In January 2005, a patent application was filed with regard to XIAFLEX for the treatment of Frozen Shoulder syndrome. If this patent is granted, it would expire in 2026 or later if patent term adjustments are granted. In January 2006, we filed a patent application with regard to the manufacturing process for XIAFLEX; if this patent is granted, it would expire in January 2027, subject to patent term adjustments. Currently there is not enough data to establish whether any approved product for Peyronie’s or Frozen Shoulder syndrome will be covered by these patents. Foreign patents and pending applications may also cover these products in certain countries depending upon the concentration and dosage ranges of such products. Our PharmaForm transmucosal film product candidates are covered by an issued formulation patent in the U.S. and two international patent applications remain pending in several countries worldwide, including the U.S. The issued formulation patent expires in 2020. The standards that the USPTO and its foreign counterparts use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change. Limitations on patent protection in some countries outside the U.S. and the differences in what constitutes patentable subject matter in these countries, may limit the protection we seek outside of the U.S. For example, methods of treating humans are not patentable subject matter in many countries outside of the U.S. In addition, laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as would laws of the U.S. Also, some countries will not grant patents on patent applications that are filed after the public sale or disclosure of the material claimed in the patent application. The U.S., by contrast, allows a one year grace period after public disclosure in which to file a patent application. In determining whether or not to seek a patent or to license any patent in a particular foreign country, we weigh the relevant costs and benefits, and consider, among other things, the market potential of our product candidates in the jurisdiction, and the scope and enforceability of patent protection afforded by the law of the jurisdiction. Failure to obtain adequate patent protection for our proprietary product candidates and technology would impair our ability to be commercially competitive in these markets. Accordingly, we do not know the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights or the breadth of claims allowed in any patents issued to us or others. We intend to seek patent protection when appropriate for any products or product candidates we acquire in the future. However, any patent applications for future products may not issue as patents, and any patent issued on such products may be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable or circumvented. Furthermore, the claims in patents which have been issued on products we may acquire in the future may not be sufficiently broad to prevent third parties from commercializing competing products. If we fail to obtain adequate patent protection for our products, our ability to compete could be impaired. Technology in-licensed by us is important to our business. We may not control the patent prosecution, maintenance or enforcement of our in-licensed technology. Accordingly, we may be unable to exercise the same degree of control over this intellectual property as we would over our internally developed intellectual property. For example, in-licensed patents for which our rights are limited to a particular field of use could be or become licensed in other fields to other licensees and, therefore, become subject to enforcement by such other licensees without our participation. Consequently, such licensed patents could be held invalid or unenforceable or could have claims construed in a manner adverse to our interests in litigation, which we would not control or to which we would not be a party. If any of the intellectual property rights of our licensors is found to be invalid, this could have a material adverse impact on our operations. 49 Table of Contents If we are not able to protect and control unpatented trade secrets, know-how and other technological innovation, we may suffer competitive harm. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and technology, which are not protected by patents, to maintain our competitive position. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. To maintain the confidentiality of trade secrets and proprietary information, we generally seek to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and collaborators upon the commencement of a relationship with us. However, we may not obtain these agreements in all circumstances. Nor can we guarantee that these agreements will provide meaningful protection, that these agreements will not be breached, or that we will have an adequate remedy for any such breach. In addition, adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of this information. Others may have developed, or may develop in the future, substantially similar or superior know-how and technology. The loss or exposure of our trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information, as well as independent development of similar or superior know-how, could harm our operating results, financial condition and future growth prospects. Many of our employees and consultants were, and many of our consultants may currently be, parties to confidentiality agreements with other companies. Although our confidentiality agreements with these employees and consultants require that they do not bring to us, or use without proper authorization, any third party’s proprietary technology, if they violate their agreements, we could suffer claims or liabilities. If we breach any of the agreements under which we license commercialization rights to products or technology from others, we could lose license rights that are critical to our business. We are a party to a number of license agreements by which we have rights to use the intellectual property of third parties that are necessary for us to operate our business. In particular, we have obtained the exclusive right to develop and commercialize Testim pursuant to a license agreement with CPEX. CPEX may unilaterally terminate the agreement if we fail to make payments under this agreement and this failure continues for a period of 30 days following written notice to us by CPEX. If the agreement is properly terminated by CPEX, we may not be able to manufacture or sell Testim. Additionally, we have obtained exclusive rights to make and sell products that are used for hormone replacement, to treat any type of urologic disorder or as a pain therapy incorporating PharmaForm’s transmucosal film technology. This agreement continues for the life of the licensed patent rights. Either party may terminate this agreement under certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency by the other party. PharmaForm may unilaterally terminate this agreement if: • we fail to make payments under this agreement and this failure continues for a period of 30 days following written notice to us by PharmaForm; or • we fail to initiate clinical trials within two years of availability of final formulation in quantities adequate for clinical testing and associated documentation for clinical trials. If our agreement with PharmaForm is properly terminated by PharmaForm, we may not be able to execute our strategy to develop, manufacture or sell transmucosal film products. To the extent that unpatented PharmaForm trade secrets are necessary for the manufacture of the transmucosal product candidates, our license to such trade secrets would expire with the expiration of the licensed patents in 2020 or later and potentially impair our continued commercialization of our transmucosal product candidates thereafter. We have also obtained exclusive worldwide rights from BioSpecifics to develop, market and sell products, other than dermal formulations labeled for topical administration, that contain BioSpecifics’ enzyme, which we refer to as XIAFLEX, for the treatment of Dupuytren’s, Peyronie’s and Frozen Shoulder syndrome. We may expand the agreement, at our option, to license products which contain BioSpecifics’ enzyme for other indications, excluding dermal formulations labeled for topical administration, as they are developed by BioSpecifics or by us. This agreement continues on a product by product and country by country basis until the later of: • the last to expire valid claim of a patent covering such product; 50 Table of Contents • the expiration of the regulatory period conveyed by orphan drug designation with respect to such product; and • 12 years. Upon expiration of the agreement pursuant to the preceding sentence, we will have a fully paid-up license to the products developed under the agreement. Either party may terminate this agreement in the event of bankruptcy or insolvency by the other party. Additionally, either party may terminate this agreement if the other party is in material breach of its obligations under the agreement which continues for a period of 90 days following receipt of written notice of such material breach. We may terminate this agreement in its entirety, or on a country by country basis, on an indication by indication basis, or on a product by product basis, at any time upon 90 days prior written notice to BioSpecifics. If this agreement is properly terminated by BioSpecifics, we may not be able to execute our strategy to commercialize XIAFLEX for Dupuytren’s or to develop and commercialize XIAFLEX for the treatment of Peyronie’s or Frozen Shoulder syndrome or future product candidates utilizing BioSpecifics’ enzyme. We expect to enter into additional licenses in the future. These licenses may impose various development, commercialization, funding, royalty, diligence or other obligations on us. If we breach any of these obligations, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license or render the license non-exclusive, which could make it impossible for us to develop, manufacture or sell the products covered by the license. Disputes may arise with respect to our licensing agreements regarding manufacturing, development and commercialization of any products relating to our in-licensed intellectual property. These disputes could lead to delays in or termination of the development, manufacture and commercialization of our products or our product candidates or to litigation. We may not be able to obtain or maintain orphan drug exclusivity for our products or product candidates, and our competitors may obtain orphan drug exclusivity prior to us, which could significantly harm our business. Some jurisdictions, including Europe and the U.S., may designate drugs intended to treat relatively small patient populations as orphan drugs. The FDA granted orphan drug status to XIAFLEX in the U.S. for the treatment of Dupuytren’s and Peyronie’s. Orphan drug designation must be requested before submitting an application for marketing authorization. Orphan drug designation may not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process, but does make the product eligible for orphan drug exclusivity and specific tax credits in the U.S. Generally, if a product with an orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first marketing approval for the indication for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan drug exclusivity. Orphan drug exclusivity means that another application to market the same drug for the same indication may not be approved, except in limited circumstances, for a period of up to 10 years in Europe and for a period of seven years in the U.S. Maintaining orphan drug designations and orphan drug exclusivity for XIAFLEX for the treatment of Dupuytren’s and Peyronie’s may be critical to their success. Our competitors may obtain orphan drug exclusivity for products competitive with our product candidates before we do, in which case we would be excluded from that market. Even if we obtain orphan drug exclusivity for any of our product candidates, we may not be able to maintain it. For example, if a competitive product is shown to be different or clinically superior to our product, any orphan drug exclusivity we have obtained will not block the approval of such competitive product. In addition, even if we obtain orphan drug exclusivity for any of our product candidates, a viable commercial market may never develop and we may never derive any meaningful revenues from the sales of these products. Our ability to market our products may be impaired by the intellectual property rights of third parties. Our commercial success will depend in part on not infringing the patents or proprietary rights of third parties. We are aware of competing intellectual property relating to the TRT gel market. While we currently 51 Table of Contents believe we have freedom to operate in the TRT gel market, others may challenge our position in the future. We are also aware of third-party patents relating to PharmaForm’s transmucosal film delivery system that may impair PharmaForm’s freedom to operate in the manufacture of product candidates using a transmucosal film delivery system. There has been, and we believe that there will continue to be, significant litigation in the pharmaceutical industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Third parties could bring legal actions against us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing of the affected product or products. A third party might request a court to rule that the patents we in-license are invalid or unenforceable. In such a case, even if the validity or enforceability of those patents were upheld, a court might hold that the third party’s actions do not infringe the patent we in-license thereby, in effect, limiting the scope of our patent rights. If we become involved in any litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our resources, regardless of the outcome of the litigation. If any of these actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license to continue to manufacture or market the affected product, in which case we may be required to pay substantial royalties or grant cross-licenses to our patents. However, there can be no assurance that any such license will be available on acceptable terms or at all. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or forced to cease some aspect of our business operations, as a result of patent infringement claims, which could harm our business. If our products or our future products infringe the intellectual property of our competitors or other third parties, we may be required to pay license fees or cease these activities and pay damages, which could significantly harm our business. Even though our products and our product candidates may be covered by patents, they may nonetheless infringe the patents or violate the proprietary rights of third parties. In these cases, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights of others in order to continue to sell and use our products and develop and commercialize our product candidates. We may not, however, be able to obtain any licenses required under any patents or proprietary rights of third parties on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we were able to obtain rights to a third party’s intellectual property, these rights may be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors potential access to the same intellectual property. Third parties may assert patent or other intellectual property infringement claims against us, or our licensors or collaborators, with respect to technologies used in potential product candidates. Any claims that might be brought against us relating to infringement of patents may cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, may cause us to pay substantial damages. We may not have sufficient resources to effectively litigate these claims. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from business operations. In addition, any patent claims brought against our licensors or collaborators could affect their ability to carry out their obligations to us. Furthermore, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us, or our licensors or collaborators, the development, manufacture or potential sale of product candidates claimed to infringe a third party’s intellectual property may have to cease or be delayed. Ultimately, we may be unable to commercialize one or more of our product candidates, our patent claims may be substantially limited or may have to cease some portion of our operations as a result of patent infringement claims, which could severely harm our business. We may become involved in disputes with Pfizer or potential future collaborators over intellectual property ownership, and publications by our research collaborators and scientific advisors could impair our ability to obtain patent protection or protect our proprietary information, which, in either case, could have a significant impact on our business. Inventions discovered under research, material transfer or other such collaborative agreements, including our collaboration agreement with Pfizer, may become jointly owned by us and the other party to such agreements 52 Table of Contents in some cases, and the exclusive property of either party in other cases. Under some circumstances, it may be difficult to determine who owns a particular invention, or whether it is jointly owned, and disputes could arise regarding ownership of those inventions. These disputes could be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome could have a significant adverse effect on our business if we were not able to protect or license rights to these inventions. In addition, our research collaborators and scientific advisors may have contractual rights to publish our data and other proprietary information, subject to our prior review. Publications by our research collaborators and scientific advisors containing such information, either with our permission or in contravention of the terms of their agreements with us, may impair our ability to obtain patent protection or protect our proprietary information, which could significantly harm our business. Upsher-Smith’s ANDA filed with a Paragraph IV certification under the Hatch-Waxman Act related to Testim could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations as it could result in the introduction of a generic product prior to the expiration of the patent covering Testim, as well as in significant legal expenses and diversion of management time. In October 2008, we and our licensor, CPEX, received notice that Upsher-Smith filed an ANDA containing a paragraph IV certification seeking approval from the FDA to market a generic version of Testim prior to the January 2025 expiration of the ‘968 Patent. The ‘968 Patent, which Bentley assigned to CPEX in June 2008, covers a method for maintaining effective blood serum testosterone levels for treating a hypogonadal male using Testim and is listed in the Orange Book. The paragraph IV certification sets forth allegations that the ‘968 Patent will not be infringed by Upsher-Smith’s manufacture, use or sale of the product for which the ANDA was submitted. In December 2008, we filed the Upsher-Smith Litigation which remains pending. Upsher-Smith has alleged that its proposed generic version of Testim would not infringe the ‘968 patent, and that the ‘968 patent is invalid. Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, final FDA approval of Upsher-Smith’s proposed generic product will be stayed until the earlier of 30 months beginning on the date of receipt of the paragraph IV certification (April 2011) or resolution of the patent infringement lawsuit. Should Upsher-Smith receive an approval of its generic version of Testim from the FDA, it cannot lawfully launch its generic version of Testim in the U.S. before the earlier of the expiration of the currently pending 30-month stay or a district court decision in its favor. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs related to the Upsher-Smith Litigation and regulatory actions. We may incur costs related to any other legal and regulatory actions that we may undertake. The Upsher-Smith Litigation could result in a finding that Upsher-Smith’s proposed testosterone product does not infringe the ‘968 Patent or that the ‘968 Patent is invalid and/or unenforceable. An adverse outcome in the Upsher-Smith Litigation or any such legal action could result in one or more generic versions of Testim being launched in the U.S. before the expiration of the ‘968 Patent in January 2025. Since Testim and XIAFLEX for the treatment of Dupuytren’s in the U.S. are currently our only approved products, the introduction of a generic version of Testim could have a material adverse affect on our ability to successfully execute our business strategy to maximize the value of Testim as we commence the commercial launch of XIAFLEX for Dupuytren’s and continue to develop our product pipeline and therefore could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We may have to engage in costly litigation to enforce or protect our proprietary technology or to defend challenges to our proprietary technology by our competitors, which may harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. The pharmaceutical field is characterized by a large number of patent filings involving complex legal and factual questions, and, therefore, we cannot predict with certainty whether our licensed patents will be enforceable. Competitors may have filed applications for or have been issued patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights related to products or processes that compete with or are similar to ours. We may not be aware of all of the patents potentially adverse to our interests that may have been issued to others. Litigation may be necessary to protect our proprietary rights, and we cannot be certain that we will have the required resources to pursue litigation or otherwise to protect our proprietary rights. 53 Table of Contents Competitors may infringe our patents or successfully avoid them through design innovation. To prevent infringement or unauthorized use, we may need to file infringement lawsuits, which are expensive and time-consuming. In any such proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours or one that we have licensed is not valid or is unenforceable, may narrowly interpret our patent claims or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover its technology. In particular, if a competitor were to file a paragraph IV certification under the U.S. Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, known as the Hatch-Waxman Act, in connection with that competitor’s submission to the FDA of an ANDA for approval of a generic version of any of our products for which we believed we held a valid patent, then we could initiate a lawsuit against such competitor claiming patent infringement and defending the relevant patent’s validity and enforceability. Depending on the facts and circumstances, the FDA may stay the approval of the ANDA for a generic version of any of our products for 30 months so long as we initiate litigation against the filer of the ANDA within 45 days of receiving the paragraph IV certification. If a court found that one of our patents was invalid or not infringed, then the FDA would be permitted to approve the competitor’s ANDA resulting in a competitive generic product. In the event that the FDA did not grant the 30 month stay, FDA would be permitted to approve the competitor’s ANDA; however, we could engage in legal proceedings, such as an injunction, to attempt to preclude the generic competitor from entering the market during the pendency of the patent litigation, but we may not prevail in which event the competitor could enter the market, despite the ongoing patent litigation. In October 2008, we and our licensor, CPEX, received notice that Upsher-Smith filed an ANDA containing a paragraph IV certification seeking approval from the FDA to market a generic version of Testim prior to the January 2025 expiration of ‘968 Patent. The ‘968 Patent, which Bentley assigned to CPEX in June 2008, covers a method for maintaining effective blood serum testosterone levels for treating a hypogonadal male using Testim and is listed in the Orange Book. The paragraph IV certification sets forth allegations that the ‘968 Patent will not be infringed by Upsher-Smith’s manufacture, use or sale of the product for which the ANDA was submitted. In December 2008, we filed the Upsher-Smith Litigation which remains pending. Upsher-Smith has alleged that its proposed generic version of Testim would not infringe the ‘968 patent, and that the ‘968 patent is invalid. Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, final FDA approval of Upsher-Smith’s proposed generic product will be stayed until the earlier of 30 months beginning on the date of receipt of the paragraph IV certification (April 2011) or resolution of the patent infringement lawsuit. Should Upsher-Smith receive an approval of its generic version of Testim from the FDA, it cannot lawfully launch its generic version of Testim in the U.S. before the earlier of the expiration of the currently pending 30-month stay or a district court decision in its favor. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs related to the Upsher-Smith Litigation and regulatory actions. We may incur costs related to any other legal and regulatory actions that we may undertake. The Upsher-Smith Litigation could result in a finding that Upsher-Smith’s proposed testosterone product does not infringe the ‘968 Patent or that the ‘968 Patent is invalid and/or unenforceable. An adverse outcome in the Upsher-Smith Litigation or any such legal action could result in one or more generic versions of Testim being launched in the U.S. before the expiration of the ‘968 Patent in January 2025. Since Testim is currently our only marketed product, the introduction of a generic version could have a material adverse affect on our ability to successfully execute our business strategy to maximize the value of Testim as we continue to develop our product pipeline and therefore could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Trade secrets may not provide adequate protection for our business and technology. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our or our potential collaborators’ employees, consultants, contractors or scientific and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. If we were to enforce a claim that a third party had illegally obtained and was using our trade secrets, our enforcement efforts would be expensive and time consuming, and the outcome would be unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the U.S. are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, if our competitors independently develop equivalent 54 Table of Contents knowledge, methods or know-how, it will be more difficult or impossible for us to enforce our rights and our business could be harmed. Risks Related to Collaborators We are dependent upon our collaborative relationship with Pfizer to further develop and commercialize XIAFLEX. There may be circumstances that delay or prevent Pfizer’s ability to develop and commercialize XIAFLEX. In December 2008, we entered into a development, commercialization and supply agreement with Pfizer (the “Pfizer Agreement”) wherein we granted to Pfizer the right to develop and commercialize, with the right to sublicense, XIAFLEX for the treatment of Peyronie’s and Dupuytren’s in 27 member countries of the European Union, as well as certain other Eurasian countries (the “Pfizer Territory”). Under our agreement Pfizer is solely responsible for regulatory approval, and commercialization, of XIAFLEX in the Pfizer Territory, so we are entirely dependent on Pfizer for the successful completion of those activities. We are subject to a number of risks associated with our dependence on our collaborative relationship with Pfizer, including: • adverse decisions by Pfizer regarding the amount and timing of resource expenditures for the development and commercialization of XIAFLEX; • possible disagreements as to the timing, nature and extent of our development plans, including clinical trials or regulatory approval strategy; • the right of Pfizer to terminate its collaboration agreement with us on limited notice upon the occurrence of certain defined events; • loss of significant rights if we fail to meet our obligations under the collaboration agreement; • withdrawal of support by Pfizer following change of Pfizer corporate strategy or due to competing priorities; • changes in key management personnel at Pfizer that are members of the collaboration’s various operating committees; and • possible disagreements with Pfizer regarding the collaboration agreement or ownership of proprietary rights. Due to these factors and other possible disagreements with Pfizer, we may be delayed or prevented from further developing, manufacturing or commercializing XIAFLEX in the Pfizer Territory, or we may become involved in litigation or arbitration, which would be time consuming and expensive. The term of the Pfizer Agreement extends, on a country by country basis, until the latest of (i) the date in which XIAFLEX is no longer covered by a valid patent claim in such country, (ii) the 15th anniversary of the first commercial sale by Pfizer of XIAFLEX in a given country and (iii) entry of a generic with respect to XIAFLEX in such country. Pfizer can terminate upon the occurrence of certain defined events. If Pfizer were to unilaterally terminate, we would need to undertake development and marketing activities for XIAFLEX in the Pfizer Territory solely at our own expense and/or seek another partner for some or all of these activities in the Pfizer Territory. If we pursued these activities in the Pfizer Territory on our own, it would significantly increase our capital and infrastructure requirements, and might limit the indications we are able to pursue and could prevent us from effectively developing and commercializing XIAFLEX. If we sought to find another pharmaceutical company partner for some or all of these activities, we may not be successful in such efforts, or they may result in a collaboration that has us expending greater funds and efforts than our current relationship with Pfizer. 55 Table of Contents In general, we cannot control the amount and timing of resources that Pfizer may devote to our collaboration. If Pfizer fails to assist in the further development or the commercialization of XIAFLEX, or if Pfizer’s efforts are not effective, our business may be negatively affected. We are relying on Pfizer to obtain regulatory approvals for and successfully commercialize XIAFLEX in the Pfizer Territory. Our collaboration with Pfizer may not be successful. If Pfizer ceases developing and commercializing XIAFLEX, we would have to seek additional sources for funding and may have to delay, reduce or eliminate one or more of our commercialization and development programs for XIAFLEX or our other product candidates. If we and Pfizer cannot agree on the development plan for XIAFLEX, development and commercialization progress could be significantly delayed or halted. We are dependent on the efforts of Pfizer to market and promote XIAFLEX. Under the Pfizer Agreement, Pfizer will exclusively promote XIAFLEX in the Pfizer Territory, and we have only a limited ability to direct Pfizer in its commercialization of XIAFLEX in the Pfizer Territory. We are thus solely dependent on Pfizer to successfully promote XIAFLEX to physicians and customers in the Pfizer Territory. If Pfizer fails to adequately market and promote XIAFLEX in the Pfizer Territory, we may be unable to obtain any remedy against Pfizer and sales of XIAFLEX may be harmed, which would negatively impact our business, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity due to reduced milestone and royalty payments under the Pfizer Agreement. If Pfizer’s business strategy changes, it may adversely affect our collaborative relationship. Any decision by Pfizer to either reduce or eliminate its participation in the Dupuytren’s or Peyronie’s indications, to emphasize other competitive agents currently in its portfolio at the expense of XIAFLEX, or to add additional competitive agents to its portfolio, could reduce its financial incentive to continue to develop, seek regulatory approval for, or commercialize XIAFLEX. Such a change in Pfizer’s business strategy may adversely affect activities under its agreement with us, which could cause significant delays and funding shortfalls impacting the activities under the collaboration and seriously harming our business. We are dependent on the funding by Pfizer for the development of XIAFLEX. The financial returns to us, if any, under our collaboration agreement with Pfizer depend in large part on the achievement of development and commercialization milestones, and royalties from sales in the Pfizer Territory. Therefore, our success in the Pfizer Territory, and any associated financial returns to us and our investors, will depend in part on the performance of Pfizer under the agreement. If Pfizer fails to perform or satisfy its obligations to us, the development, regulatory approval or commercialization of XIAFLEX in the Pfizer Territory would be delayed or may not occur and our business and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Subject to certain limitations set forth in the Pfizer Agreement, Pfizer may terminate on limited notice to us upon the occurrence of certain defined events. If Pfizer terminates, we may be unable to fund the development costs of XIAFLEX and other product candidates on our own and may be unable to find a new collaborator, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Development of Our Product Candidates We may not be able to develop product candidates into viable commercial products, which would impair our ability to grow and could cause a decline in the price of our stock. The process of developing product candidates involves a high degree of risk and may take several years. Product candidates may fail to reach the market for several reasons, including: • clinical trials may show our product candidates to be ineffective or not as effective as anticipated or to have harmful side effects or any unforeseen result; 56 Table of Contents • our inability to enroll patients in clinical trials within the expected timeframes; • our inability to obtain authorization from FDA or other regulatory authority to initiate clinical trials within the expected timeframes; • product candidates may fail to receive regulatory approvals required to bring the products to market; • manufacturing costs and delays and manufacturing problems in general, the inability to scale up to produce supplies for clinical trials or commercial supplies, or other factors may make our product candidates uneconomical; • the proprietary rights of others and their competing products and technologies may prevent our product candidates from being effectively commercialized or to obtain exclusivity; and • failure to meet one or more of management’s target product profile criteria. Success in the preclinical and early clinical trials does not ensure that large-scale clinical trials will be successful. Clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. The length of time necessary to complete clinical trials and to submit an application for marketing approval for a final decision by a regulatory authority varies significantly and may be difficult to predict. Currently, there is substantial congressional and administration review of the regulatory approval process for drug candidates in the U.S. Any changes to the U.S. regulatory approval process could significantly increase the timing or cost of regulatory approval for our product candidates making further development uneconomical or impossible. In addition, developing product candidates is very expensive and will have a significant impact on our ability to generate profits. Factors affecting our product development expenses include: • changes to the regulatory approval process for product candidates in those jurisdictions, including the U.S., in which we may be seeking approval for our product candidates; • the cost and timing of manufacturing clinical or commercial supplies of product candidates, including the cost and timing of the implementation of any necessary corrective actions; • regulatory approval of trade names for our product candidates and the timing thereof; • our ability to raise any additional funds that we need to complete our trials; • the number and outcome of clinical trials conducted by us and/or our collaborators; • the number of products we may have in clinical development; • in-licensing or other partnership activities, including the timing and amount of related development funding, license fees or milestone payments; and • future levels of our revenue. Our product development efforts also could result in large and immediate write-offs, significant milestone payments, incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities or amortization of expenses related to intangible assets, any of which could negatively impact our financial results. Additionally, if we are unable to develop our product candidates into viable commercial products, we will be reliant solely on sales of our currently approved products for our revenues, potentially limiting our growth opportunities. 57 Table of Contents If clinical trials for our product candidates are delayed, we would be unable to commercialize our product candidates on a timely basis, which could materially harm our business. Clinical trials that we may conduct, or that may be conducted by our partners, may not begin on time or may need to be restructured or temporarily suspended after they have begun. Clinical trials can be delayed or may need to be restructured for a variety of reasons, including delays or restructuring related to: • changes to the regulatory approval process for product candidates in those jurisdictions, including the U.S., in which we may be seeking approval for our product candidates; • obtaining an investigational new drug exemption (“IND”), or other regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; • timing of responses required from regulatory authorities; • negotiating acceptable clinical trial agreement terms with prospective investigators or trial sites; • obtaining institutional review board, or equivalent, approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; • recruiting subjects to participate in a clinical trial; • competition in recruiting clinical investigators; • shortage or lack of availability of clinical trial supplies from external and internal sources; • the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive results or poorly executed testing; • failure to validate a patient-reported outcome questionnaire; • the placement of a clinical hold on a study; • the failure of third parties conducting and overseeing the operations of our clinical trials to perform their contractual or regulatory obligations in a timely fashion; • exposure of clinical trial subjects to unexpected and unacceptable health risks or noncompliance with regulatory requirements, which may result in suspension of the trial; and • manufacturing issues associated with clinical supplies. Prior to commencing clinical trials in the U.S., we must have an effective IND for each of our product candidates. INDs have been filed and are effective for XIAFLEX for the treatment of Peyronie’s, and XIAFLEX for the treatment of Frozen Shoulder syndrome. The foreign equivalent of an IND, a Clinical Trial Application (“CTA”) is a prerequisite to performing pilot studies or phase I clinical trials in many European countries. We have four projects in clinical development, specifically XIAFLEX for the treatment of Peyronie’s and Frozen Shoulder syndrome, Fentanyl transmucosal film and AA4010. Completion of clinical trials for each product candidate will be required before commercialization. With regard to the development of XIAFLEX for the treatment of Peyronie’s, the FDA required that certain additional pre-clinical studies be completed prior to the initiation of the phase IIb study or any other human study for Peyronie’s which resulted in a delay in commencement of our phase IIb study. We have completed these pre-clinical studies and the U.S. phase IIb trial of XIAFLEX for the treatment of Peyronie’s and announced top line efficacy and safety results in December 2009. If we experience delays in, or termination of, clinical trials, or fail to enroll patients in clinical trials in a timely manner, or if the cost or timing of the regulatory approval process increases, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates will be adversely impacted. In addition, our product development costs would increase and our ability to generate additional revenue from new products could be impaired. 58 Table of Contents Adverse events or lack of efficacy in our clinical trials may force us to stop development of our product candidates, prevent regulatory approval of our product candidates, or impact our existing products which could materially harm our business. Patients participating in the clinical trials of our product candidates may experience serious adverse health events. A serious adverse health event includes death, a life-threatening condition, hospitalization, disability, congenital anomaly, or a condition requiring intervention to prevent permanent impairment or damage. The occurrence of any of these events could interrupt, delay, suspend or halt clinical trials of our product candidates and could result in the FDA, or other regulatory authorities, denying approval of our product candidates for any or all targeted indications. Also, the occurrence of any of these events could impact our existing products. An institutional review board or independent data safety monitoring board, the FDA, other regulatory authorities or we may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time. Our product candidates may prove not to be safe for human use. Any delay in the regulatory approval of our product candidates could increase our product development costs and allow our competitors additional time to develop or market competing products. If our product candidates do not receive the necessary regulatory approval, we will be reliant on sales of our currently approved products as our sole sources of revenue. Top line efficacy and safety results for the XIAFLEX Peyronie’s phase IIb clinical trial were announced in December 2009. The data demonstrated that XIAFLEX improved penile curvature when compared to placebo with a mean improvement of 29.7% vs. 11%, respectively (P=0.001). In addition, the PRO domain of Peyronie’s symptom bother was significantly improved in XIAFLEX treated subjects compared to placebo. The use of modeling also demonstrated significant improvement in XIAFLEX subjects compared to placebo, 32.4% improvement in curvature compared to a 2.5% worsening of curvature in placebo subjects (p<0.001). In the no-modeling group, XIAFLEX subjects experienced a 27.1% mean improvement in penile curvature, which was not statistically different from the 27.9% mean improvement for subjects receiving the placebo. The remaining three domains did not show statistical significance between XIAFLEX and placebo. The most common adverse events were injection site bruising, injection site pain, injection site edema, contusion, penile edema, and penile pain. There were also a total of five (3.4%) subjects who experienced eight non fatal serious adverse events, none of which were considered to be related to XIAFLEX. Our failure to successfully in-license or acquire additional technologies, product candidates or approved products could impair our ability to grow. We intend to in-license, acquire, develop and market additional products and product candidates so that we are not solely reliant on sales from our currently approved products for our revenues. Because we have limited internal research capabilities, we are dependent upon pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and other researchers to sell or license products or technologies to us. The success of this strategy depends upon our ability to identify, select and acquire the right pharmaceutical product candidates, products and technologies. To date, we have in-licensed the formulation technology underlying Testim from CPEX, the transmucosal film technology underlying AA4010 and our Fentanyl transmucosal film product candidate from PharmaForm, and the enzyme underlying XIAFLEX from BioSpecifics. We have a limited number of product candidates in our development pipeline. We may not be able to successfully identify any other commercial products or product candidates to in-license, acquire or internally develop. Moreover, negotiating and implementing an economically viable in-licensing arrangement or acquisition is a lengthy and complex process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater resources, may compete with us for the in-licensing or acquisition of product candidates and approved products. We may not be able to acquire or in-license the rights to additional product candidates and approved products on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. If we are unable to in-license or acquire additional commercial products or product candidates, we may be reliant solely on sales of our currently approved products for revenues. As a result, our ability to grow our business or increase our profits could be severely limited. 59 Table of Contents If we engage in any acquisition, we will incur a variety of costs, and we may never realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Since our inception, we have acquired the underlying technology for our products and product candidates through in-licensing arrangements. The underlying technology for Testim was licensed from CPEX. The transmucosal film technology underlying AA4010 and the pain product candidates was licensed from PharmaForm. XIAFLEX for Dupuytren’s, Peyronie’s and Frozen Shoulder syndrome, was licensed from BioSpecifics. One of our strategies for business expansion is the acquisition of additional products and product candidates. We may attempt to acquire these product candidates, or other potentially beneficial technologies, through in-licensing or the acquisition of businesses, services or products that we believe are a strategic fit with our business. If we undertake an acquisition, the process of integrating any newly acquired business, technology, service or product into our existing operations could be expensive and time consuming and may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may divert significant management attention from our ongoing business operations. Moreover, we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition for a variety of reasons, such as an acquired product candidate proving to not be safe or effective in later clinical trials or not reaching its forecasted commercial potential. We may fund any future acquisition by issuing equity or debt securities, which could dilute your ownership percentage or limit our financial or operating flexibility as a result of restrictive covenants related to new debt. Acquisition efforts can consume significant management attention and require substantial expenditures, which could detract from our other programs. In addition, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions that are never completed. If we are unable to acquire and successfully integrate product candidates through in-licensing or the acquisition of businesses, services or products, we may remain reliant solely on sales of our currently approved products for revenue. In pursuing our acquisition strategy, we may expend significant management time, consulting costs and legal expenses without consummating a transaction. Risks Related to Regulatory Approval of Our Product Candidates We are subject to numerous complex regulatory requirements and failure to comply with these regulations, or the cost of compliance with these regulations, may harm our business. The testing, development, manufacture and distribution of our products are subject to regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the U.S., Europe and the rest of the world. These regulations govern or affect the testing, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, record-keeping, approval, distribution, advertising and promotion of our products and our product candidates, as well as safe working conditions and the experimental use of animals. Noncompliance with any applicable regulatory requirements can result in refusal of the government to approve facilities for testing or manufacture of products as well as refusal to approve products for commercialization. Noncompliance with any applicable regulatory requirements also can result in criminal prosecution and fines, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, prohibitions or limitations on the commercial sale of products or refusal to allow the entering into of federal and state supply contracts. FDA and comparable governmental authorities have the authority to withdraw product approvals that have been previously granted. Currently, there is a substantial amount of congressional and administrative review of the FDA and the regulatory approval process for drug candidates in the U.S. As a result, there may be significant changes made to the regulatory approval process in the U.S. In addition, the regulatory requirements relating to the manufacturing, testing, labeling, promotion, marketing and distribution of our products may change in the U.S. or the other jurisdictions in which we may have obtained or be seeking regulatory approval for our products or product candidates. Such changes may increase our costs and adversely affect our operations. Testosterone is listed by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency (“DEA”) as a Schedule III substance under the Controlled Substances Act of 1970. The DEA classifies substances as Schedule I, II, III, IV or V substances, with Schedule I substances considered to present the highest risk of substance abuse and Schedule V substances the lowest risk. Our pain transmucosal film product candidates may also involve the use of scheduled substances. Scheduled substances are subject to DEA regulations relating to manufacturing, storage, distribution and 60 Table of Contents physician prescription procedures. For example, all regular Schedule III drug prescriptions must be signed by a physician and may not be refilled. Furthermore, the amount of Schedule III substances we can obtain for clinical trials and commercial distribution is limited by the DEA and our quota may not be sufficient to complete clinical trials or meet commercial demand, if any. Entities must be registered annually with the DEA to manufacture, distribute, dispense, import, export and conduct research using controlled substances. State controlled substance laws also require registration for similar activities. In addition, the DEA requires entities handling controlled substances to maintain records and file reports, follow specific labeling and packaging requirements, and provide appropriate security measures to control against diversion of controlled substances. Failure to follow these requirements can lead to significant civil and/or criminal penalties and possibly even lead to a revocation of a DEA registration. Products containing controlled substances may generate public controversy. As a result, these products may have their marketing rights or regulatory approvals withdrawn. Political pressures and adverse publicity could lead to delays in, and increased expenses for, and limit or restrict the introduction and marketing of our product candidates. For some scheduled substances or any product, the FDA may require us to develop a comprehensive risk management program to reduce the inappropriate use of our products and product candidates, including the manner in which they are marketed and sold, so as to reduce the risk of improper patient selection and diversion or abuse of the product. Developing such a program in consultation with the FDA may be a time-consuming process and could delay approval of any of our product candidates. Such a program or delays of any approval from the FDA could increase our product development costs and may allow our competitors additional time to develop or market competing products. As a condition for approval of XIAFLEX for Dupuytren’s, we are required to comply with post-marketing requirements. Failure to comply with these requirements or any future post-marketing requirements, or the cost of compliance with such requirements, may harm our business. FDA can establish requirements for approved products with which we must comply. For example, the law allows FDA to require us as the sponsor of a marketing application to conduct and report the results of certain studies or clinical trials for certain purposes (“post-marketing requirements”) if FDA makes certain findings required by the statute. Failure to report or conduct the studies is considered a violation and can result in enforcement action. Additionally, FDA can request that we voluntarily conduct studies or clinical trials to address questions or concerns (“post-marketing commitments”). These studies or clinical trials could be time-consuming and costly and the results could have negative effects on our ability to market the product. As a condition of approval for XIAFLEX for Dupuytren’s, FDA required a single post-marketing requirement and several post-marketing commitments. The post-marketing requirement is to conduct a study to evaluate the potential for antibodies to XIAFLEX to interfere with certain other human proteins that are similar to the proteins in XIAFLEX. No new clinical studies are required as part of this evaluation. The post-marketing commitments are generally related to the manufacturing and testing of XIAFLEX. The results of the required and voluntary investigations could be time-consuming and costly and the results could have negative effects on our ability to market the product. For XIAFLEX for Dupuytren’s and Testim, we are required to implement a REMS. Failure to comply, or the cost of compliance with such REMS or any future REMS, may harm our business. FDA is authorized to require us as the sponsor of an approved or unapproved marketing application to submit a proposed REMS if the FDA determines that a REMS is necessary to ensure that the benefits of a drug outweigh the risks of the drug. FDA can require submission of a REMS prior to approval of a product or after approval of a product if FDA becomes aware of new safety information. If FDA determines that a REMS is necessary to ensure that the benefits of the drug outweigh the risks, FDA will determine which elements of a REMS are necessary and will approve the REMS once the FDA has determined that the proposed REMS will 61 Table of Contents ensure that the benefits of the drug outweigh the risks, and the other relevant statutory criteria are met. Each REMS must include a timetable for assessments of the effectiveness of the REMS in mitigating the identified risks and can be required to include other elements, such as a medication guide, a communication plan or other elements to assure safe use. REMS that are required by FDA are subject to inspection and are enforceable. Failure to comply with the requirements of the approved REMS can render the drug misbranded. A violation of a REMS requirement is subject to civil penalties. Complying with the requirements of a REMS can be costly and time-consuming and adversely affect our operations. As a condition of approval for XIAFLEX for Dupuytren’s, FDA required a REMS. The goal of the REMS is to inform and train healthcare providers about the risks of tendon rupture, serious adverse reactions affecting the injected extremity, and the potential risk of serious hypersensitivity reactions (including the potential for anaphylaxis) associated with XIAFLEX. The REMS consists of a medication guide, a communication plan, and a timetable for submission of assessments of the REMS. The communication plan includes a Dear Healthcare Provider Letter and educational materials (i.e., training guide and procedure training video). On May 7, 2009, FDA announced that it was requiring the manufacturers of two prescription topical testosterone gels, Solvay S.A. and Auxilium, to make changes to the prescribing information and develop REMS for the products. FDA stated that it was requiring this action after it became aware, through spontaneous post-marketing adverse event reports and peer-reviewed biomedical literature, of cases of secondary exposure of children to testosterone due to drug transfer from adult males using testosterone gel drug products (“transference”). FDA considered this information to be “new safety information.” We believe that all topical testosterone gels have a potential for transference. Testim’s prescribing information has described the risk and procedures for avoidance of transference since the product was launched in 2003. The changes to the prescribing information for Testim include a “boxed warning”, which is used to highlight warning information that is especially important to the prescriber. The goal of the REMS is to inform patients about the serious risks associated with the use of Testim and AndroGel. The REMS includes assessments and a Medication Guide to inform patients. The revised prescribing information and REMS for Testim was approved in September 2009. When we seek approval for our drug products in other countries, we are subject to numerous complex regulatory requirements and if approval is denied or limited in another country, and/or if another country imposes post-marketing requirements, that decision could affect our ability, or that of our partners, to market the drug in other countries. A Marketing Authorization Application (“MAA”) has been filed for XIAFLEX for the treatment of Dupuytren’s in the EU by our partner, Pfizer, using the centralized procedure. If major objections are raised during the review procedure, Pfizer may not receive marketing approval and would be unable to commercialize the product in the EU. Alternatively, the marketing authorization may be subject to conditions for approval or post authorization obligations. Such conditions or obligations may be costly and time consuming to fulfill and may affect our operations. For example, additional clinical data may be required to confirm the safety and/or efficacy profile of the product in the target patient population. In addition, marketing authorizations are subject to periodic reviews which if negative could affect the ability of Pfizer to commercialize the product in the EU. Further regulatory filings are planned by our partner Ferring in 2010 in order to gain additional marketing approvals for Testim in the EU. The filings will be made via the Mutual Recognition procedure. If major objections are raised and upheld during the review procedure, in addition to preventing approval in the new countries, this could also negatively impact the approvals in the existing countries and could thereby impact Ferring’s ability to commercialize the product. Additionally, failure to comply with or changes to the regulatory requirements that are applicable to our products or our other product candidates may result in a variety of consequences, including the following: • restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes; 62 Table of Contents • warning letters; • withdrawal of a product or a product candidate from the market; • voluntary or mandatory recall of a product or a product candidate; • fines against us; • suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals for a product or a product candidate; • suspension or termination of any of our ongoing clinical trials of a product candidate; • refusal to permit import or export of our products; • refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit; • denial of permission to file an application or supplement in a jurisdiction; • product seizure; and • injunctions, consent decrees, or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties against us. If our product candidates are not demonstrated to be sufficiently safe and effective, they will not receive regulatory approval and we will be unable to commercialize them. The regulatory approval process typically is extremely expensive, takes many years and the timing or likelihood of any approval cannot be accurately predicted. INDs have been filed and are effective for XIAFLEX for the treatment of Peyronie’s and XIAFLEX for the treatment of Frozen Shoulder syndrome. The foreign equivalent of an IND, a CTA, is a prerequisite to performing pilot studies or phase I clinical trials in many European countries. CTAs were filed and approved in select European countries for open label phase III studies for XIAFLEX for the treatment of Dupuytren’s. Additional CTAs have been submitted for a long term follow-up study with approval received in two out of four countries to date. As part of the regulatory approval process, we must conduct preclinical studies and clinical trials for each product candidate to demonstrate safety and efficacy. The number of preclinical studies and clinical trials that will be required varies depending on the product candidate, the indication being evaluated, the trial results and regulations applicable to any particular product candidate. Top line efficacy and safety results for the XIAFLEX Peyronie’s phase IIb clinical trial were announced in December 2009. The data demonstrated that XIAFLEX improved penile curvature when compared to placebo with a mean improvement of 29.7% vs. 11%, respectively (P=0.001). In addition, the PRO domain of Peyronie’s symptom bother was significantly improved in XIAFLEX treated subjects compared to placebo. The use of modeling also demonstrated significant improvement in XIAFLEX subjects compared to placebo, 32.4% improvement in curvature compared to a 2.5% worsening of curvature in placebo subjects (p<0.001). In the no-modeling group, XIAFLEX subjects experienced a 27.1% mean improvement in penile curvature, which was not statistically different from the 27.9% mean improvement for subjects receiving the placebo. The remaining three domains did not show statistical significance between XIAFLEX and placebo. The most common adverse events were injection site bruising, injection site pain, injection site edema, contusion, penile edema, and penile pain. There were also a total of five (3.4%) subjects who experienced eight non fatal serious adverse events, none of which were considered to be related to XIAFLEX. The results of preclinical studies and initial clinical trials of our product candidates do not necessarily predict the results of later-stage clinical trials. Product candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy despite having progressed through initial clinical trials. We cannot assure you that the data collected from the preclinical studies and clinical trials of our product candidates will be sufficient to support FDA or other regulatory approval. In addition, the continuation of a particular study after review by an institutional review board or independent data safety monitoring board does not necessarily indicate that our product candidate will achieve the clinical endpoint. 63 Table of Contents The FDA and other regulatory agencies can delay, limit or deny approval for many reasons, including: • changes to the regulatory approval process for product candidates in those jurisdictions, including the U.S., in which we may be seeking approval for our product candidates; • a product candidate may not be deemed to be safe or effective; • the ability of the regulatory agency to provide timely responses as a result of its resource constraints; • the manufacturing processes or facilities may not meet the applicable requirements; and • changes in their approval policies or adoption of new regulations may require additional clinical trials or other data. Any delay in, or failure to receive, approval for any of our product candidates or the failure to maintain regulatory approval for our products could prevent us from growing our revenues or achieving profitability Risks Related to Compliance Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. We are a relatively small company and we rely heavily on third parties to conduct many important functions. As a biopharmaceutical company, we are subject to a large body of legal and regulatory requirements. In addition, as a publicly traded company we are subject to significant regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOA”), some of which have either only recently been adopted or are currently proposals subject to change. We cannot assure you that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply with all potentially applicable federal and state laws and regulations could lead to the imposition of fines, result in our exclusion from participation in state and federal healthcare programs, cause the value of our common stock to decline, impede our ability to raise capital or lead to the de-listing of our stock. Our controls over external financial reporting may fail or be circumvented. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies. In addition, we are required under the SOA to report annually on our internal control over financial reporting. If we, or our independent registered public accounting firm, determine that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, this shortcoming could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results and the price of our common stock could be negatively affected. This reporting requirement could also make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. Any system of internal controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulation concerning control and procedures could have a material effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees and as executive officers. Risks Related to Employees and Growth If we are not able to retain our current management team or attract and retain qualified scientific, technical and business personnel, our business will suffer. We are dependent on the members of our management team for our business success. In addition, an important element of our strategy is to leverage the development, regulatory and commercialization expertise of 64 Table of Contents our current management in our development activities. Our employment agreements with our executive officers are terminable on short notice. The loss of key employees may result in a significant loss in the knowledge and experience that we, as an organization, possess and could cause significant delays, or outright failure, in the further commercialization of our products or the development and commercialization of our product candidates. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified and talented senior management personnel, our business may suffer. To grow we will need to hire a significant number of qualified personnel on a timely basis. However, there is intense competition for human resources, including management in the technical fields in which we operate, and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the successful commercialization of our products and the development and commercialization of our product candidates. As we grow, the inability to attract new employees when needed or to retain existing employees could severely limit our growth and harm our business. Our operations may be impaired unless we can successfully manage our growth. We currently have approximately 540 employees. In order to continue to achieve our business goals, we currently anticipate that we will need to add employees to our existing departments. Expansion may place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. Moreover, higher than expected market growth of our products, the acquisition or in-licensing of additional products, as well as the development and commercialization of our other product candidates or marketing arrangements with third parties, could accelerate our hiring needs beyond our current expectations. To manage further growth, we will be required to continue to improve existing, and implement additional, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, and hire, train and manage additional employees. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our anticipated growth and we may not be able to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel. Our failure to manage growth effectively could limit our ability to achieve our business goals. In addition, turnover in our direct sales force or marketing team could adversely affect product and future product sales growth. Risks Related to Our Financial Results and Need for Additional Financing We incurred significant losses since our inception and may not achieve profitability in the foreseeable future. We have incurred significant losses since our inception, including net losses of $53.5 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $323.9 million. We expect to continue to incur substantial expenses as we: • market and sell our only approved products, Testim for the treatment of hypogonadism in the U.S., Canada and Europe, and XIAFLEX for Dupuytren’s for adult patients with a palpable cord, in the U.S., through our sales force; • develop XIAFLEX for the treatment of Peyronie’s and Frozen Shoulder syndrome; AA4010, our overactive bladder transmucosal film product candidate; and our Fentanyl transmucosal film product candidate and any other product candidates that we develop, license or acquire; • manufacture XIAFLEX; • seek regulatory approval for our product candidates; • prepare for the launch of and commercialize any of our product candidates that receive marketing approval or any approved products that we acquire or in-license; and • acquire or in-license new technologies or development stage or approved products. 65 Table of Contents Accordingly, we expect to continue to incur substantial additional losses through the successful launch of XIAFLEX for Dupuytren’s. In order to achieve and maintain profitability, we will need to generate significantly greater revenues from Testim and XIAFLEX for Dupuytren’s. If we fail to achieve profitability within the time frame expected by investors, the value of our common stock may decline substantially. Our future results are unpredictable, and therefore, our common stock is a highly speculative investment. Our future results are unpredictable and our success is dependent upon many factors. Accordingly, you must consider our prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we may encounter. The risks and difficulties that we may encounter include: • successfully launching XIAFLEX for Dupuytren’s in the U.S.; • increasing the sales of Testim; • manufacturing sufficient quantities of XIAFLEX; • successfully developing, obtaining marketing approval for and manufacturing or having manufactured our current product candidates, including XIAFLEX for the treatment of Peyronie’s and Frozen Shoulder syndrome; • successfully identifying and developing new product candidates; • effectively commercializing any approved product candidates that we develop, including XIAFLEX or any approved products that we acquire; • responding to competitive pressures from other businesses, including the launch of any competitive products, including generics; • Identifying and negotiating favorable agreements with third parties for the manufacture, distribution, marketing and sales of our approved products; and • effectively managing our relationships with vendors and third parties. All of our revenues to date have been generated from the sale of Testim or out-licensing of Testim and XIAFLEX, and, if these revenues do not grow, our launch of XIAFLEX for Dupuytren’s in the U.S. is not successful and we cannot commercialize new products, we will not become profitable Our only products with marketing approval are Testim and XIAFLEX for Dupuytren’s and our product revenues to date have been generated solely from the sale of Testim and out-licensing of Testim and XIAFLEX. Until such time as we develop, acquire or in-license additional products that are approved for marketing, we will be relying on Testim and XIAFLEX for all of our revenues. Accordingly, our success depends significantly on our ability to increase sales of Testim and successfully launch and grow sales of XIAFLEX in the U.S. for Dupuytren’s. Our sales and marketing efforts may not be successful in increasing prescriptions for our products. Sales of our products are subject to the following risks, among others: • growth of the overall androgen market which may be influenced by the sales and marketing efforts of our competitors; • development and growth of a market for XIAFLEX as an alternative to the current practice of treating Dupuytren’s through surgical procedures and expectant management; • acceptance by the medical community or the general public of our products as safe or effective therapies; • increasing awareness and continued acceptance of hypogonadism by the medical community, regulators or the general public as a medical disorder requiring treatment; • illegal substitution by pharmacists of AndroGel for Testim; 66 Table of Contents • pressures from existing or new competing products, including generic products, that may provide therapeutic, convenience or pricing advantages over Testim or may garner a greater share of voice; • failure of third-party payors to provide coverage and sufficient reimbursement; • failure of third-party payors to provide coverage and sufficient reimbursement for the procedures performed by physicians using XIAFLEX to treat Dupuytren’s; and • impact of coverage and reimbursement changes. For the foreseeable future, if we are unable to grow sales of our products and out-licensing revenues, we will be unable to increase our revenues or achieve profitability and we may be forced to delay or change our current plans to develop other product candidates. If our financial resources and sources of liquidity are not sufficient, we may be required to limit, scale back or cease our operations. Based on our current plans and expectations, we believe that our existing financial resources and sources of liquidity will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating requirements until such time as we are profitable. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: • our ability to successfully launch and increase sales in the U.S. of XIAFLEX for Dupuytren’s; • Testim market acceptance, sales growth and the impact of the ANDA filed by Upsher-Smith containing a paragraph IV certification seeking approval from the FDA to market a generic version of Testim, including the cost of pursuing all available legal and regulatory options in defense of Testim; • our ability to realize sales efficiency and effectiveness of our sales force; • growth of the overall androgen market which may be influenced by the sales and marketing efforts of our competitors; • entry into the marketplace of competitive products; • third-party payor coverage and reimbursement for our products; • third-party payor coverage and sufficient reimbursement for our procedures performed by physicians using XIAFLEX to treat Dupuytren’s; • the cost of manufacturing, distributing, marketing and selling our products; • the scope, rate of progress and cost of our product development activities; • future clinical trial results; • the terms and timing of any future collaborative, licensing, co-promotion and other arrangements that we may establish; • the cost and timing of regulatory approvals; • the cost of any regulatory enforcement activities; • the accuracy of market research regarding the commercial potential of any of our products or product candidates; • the market acceptance and sales growth of any of our products or product candidates upon regulatory approval; • the costs of supplying and commercializing our products and product candidates; • increased administrative costs to support a growing infrastructure; 67 Table of Contents • acquisition of a company or in-licensing costs; • the effect of competing technological and market developments; • changes to the regulatory approval process for product candidates in those jurisdictions, including the U.S., in which we may be seeking approval for our product candidates; • the cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claim and other intellectual property rights, including costs associated with the Upsher Smith Litigation and the outcome thereof; • the extent to which we acquire or invest in businesses, products and technologies; and; • the timing of payment of milestones from licensing activities. These factors could result in variations from our currently projected operating and liquidity requirements. If our existing resources are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may need to borrow money or sell additional equity or debt securities. We may not be able to borrow money on commercially reasonable terms, particularly in light of the recent global economic crisis which has caused significant volatility in the credit and equity market. Moreover, the terms of the sale of any equity or debt securities may not be acceptable to us and could result in substantial dilution of your investment. If we are unable to obtain this additional financing, we may be required to: • reduce the size or scope, or both, of our sales and marketing efforts for Testim, XIAFLEX or any of our future products; • delay or reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our planned development, commercialization or expansion activities; • seek collaborators for our product candidates at an earlier stage than otherwise would be desirable and on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available, and/or • relinquish, license or otherwise dispose of rights to technologies, product candidates or products that we currently market or would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available. Our revenues, operating results and cash flows may fluctuate in future periods and we may fail to meet investor expectations, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Variations in our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period. We plan to launch XIAFLEX for Dupuytren’s in the U.S. in late March 2010. Because XIAFLEX for Dupuytren’s is a new product, its sales prospects are uncertain. We cannot predict with certainty the timing or future level of sales in the U.S. of XIAFLEX for Dupuytren’s. If our quarterly sales or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, including investors and securities analysts’ expectations regarding the success of the launch of XIAFLEX, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. In addition to the other factors discussed under these “Risk Factors,” specific factors that may cause fluctuations in our operating results include: • demand and pricing for our products, including any change in wholesaler purchasing patterns or cost structures for our products or their services; • growth of the overall androgen market which may be influenced by the sales and marketing efforts of our competitors; • prescription levels relating to physician and patient acceptance of, and prescription costs for our products or any of our future products; • prescription levels in the chain of distribution; 68 Table of Contents • government or private healthcare reimbursement policies, including the timing to establish reimbursement processes for XIAFLEX; • changes to the regulatory approval process for product candidates in those jurisdictions, including the U.S., in which we may be seeking approval for our product candidates; • any regulatory actions that could limit the use of our marketed products, such as REMS and boxed warnings; • introduction of competing products, including generics; • any interruption in the manufacturing or distribution of our products or any of our future products; • the timing and results of clinical trials for our product candidates; • the costs incurred in the manufacture of our products and our product candidates; • our operating expenses, many of which are relatively fixed; • timing and costs associated with any new product or technology acquisitions we may complete; • timing and costs associated with any new out-licensing agreements we may enter; • variations in our rates of product returns, allowances and rebates and discounts; • Pfizer’s performance under the license agreement for XIAFLEX; and • milestone payments. As a result of these factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. The effects of the recent global economic crisis may impact our business, operating results or financial condition. U.S. and foreign markets have recently experienced historic dislocations and liquidity disruptions which have caused a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. While there has been improvement in the U.S. and foreign markets in recent months, access to the credit, equity and fixed income markets remains limited. These macroeconomic developments could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition in a number of ways. For example: • current or potential customers may be unable to fund purchases, which could cause them to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products or to not pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products; • current or potential patients may be unable or unwilling to pay for pharmaceutical prescriptions; and • third-party manufacturers and service providers may be unable to provide contracted goods or services. In addition, financial institution failures may make it difficult either to obtain financing for potential operating needs or for investing activities, including the financing of any future acquisitions. Also, our investment policy, which includes short-term debt securities, is generally subject to general credit, liquidity, counterparty, market and interest rate risks that may be exacerbated by the recent global financial crisis. If the banking system or the fixed income, credit or equity markets remain volatile, our investment portfolio may be impacted and the values and liquidity of our investments could be adversely affected. Legislative or regulatory reform of the healthcare system may affect our ability to sell our products profitably. In both the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could impact our ability to sell our products 69 Table of Contents profitably. In recent years, new legislation has been proposed in the United States at the federal and state levels that would effect major changes in the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. Recently, President Obama and members of Congress have proposed significant reforms. On November 7, 2009, the House of Representatives passed, and on December 24, 2009, the Senate passed health care reform legislation that would require most individuals to have health insurance, establish new regulations on health plans, create insurance pooling mechanisms and a government health insurance option to compete with private plans and other expanded public health measures. This legislation would also reduce Medicare spending on services provided by hospitals and other providers. It is still too early to determine the impact of the proposed legislation on the pharmaceutical industry and our business. Further federal and state proposals are likely. However, an expansion in government’s role in the U.S. healthcare industry may lower reimbursements for our products, reduce medical procedure volumes and adversely affect our business, possibly materially. In addition, the potential for adoption of these proposals could affect our ability to raise capital, obtain additional collaborators and market our products. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by future health care reforms. We entered into a two year revolving credit agreement (“Revolving Line of Credit Agreement”), dated as of July 31, 2009, with Silicon Valley Bank (“SVB”). The terms of our Revolving Line of Credit Agreement may restrict our current and future operations, which would adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and to manage our operations. Our Revolving Line of Credit Agreement requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and contains affirmative and negative covenants (including, but not limited to, limitations on the incurrence of indebtedness, asset dispositions, acquisitions, investments, dividends and other restricted payments, liens and transactions with affiliates) which may restrict our current and future operations. Our Revolving Line of Credit Agreement also requires us to maintain certain financial ratios. To secure the repayment of any amounts borrowed under this Revolving Line of Credit Agreement, we granted to SVB a first priority security interest in all of our assets, including our intellectual property and our rights under license agreements granting us rights to intellectual property. We also agreed not to pledge or otherwise encumber our intellectual property assets without SVB’s approval. As of the date hereof, we do not have an outstanding balance on the Revolving Line of Credit Agreement. However, were we to draw on the Revolving Line of Credit Agreement, in the event of an event of default, SVB has the right to declare the amounts borrowed under the Revolving Line of Credit Agreement immediately due and payable, and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. An event of default under the Revolving Line of Credit Agreement includes, among other things, the failure to make payments when due, breaches of representations, warranties or covenants, the occurrence of certain insolvency events, or the occurrence of an event which could have a material adverse effect on us. If we were unable to repay those amounts, SVB could proceed against the collateral granted pursuant to the Revolving Line of Credit Agreement. If SVB accelerates the repayment of our borrowings, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient cash on hand to repay the amounts borrowed under the Revolving Line of Credit Agreement. Risks Related to Stock Market Price The market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile. Prior to our initial public offering in July 2004, there was no public market for our common stock. Since our initial public offering, our stock price has, at times, been volatile. We cannot assure you that an active trading market for our common stock will exist at any time. Holders of our common stock may not be able to sell shares quickly or at the market price if trading in our common stock is not active. Substantially all of our outstanding shares of our common stock are eligible for sale in the public market. For the 30 days prior to the end of the period covered by this Report, our average daily trading volume was approximately 575,000 shares. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception in the market that holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could depress the market price of our common stock and 70 Table of Contents impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities, even if our business is doing well. In addition, the market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • our failure to achieve our operational and research and development goals; • changes to the regulatory approval process for product candidates in those jurisdictions, including the U.S., in which we may be seeking approval for our product candidates; • market acceptance and sales growth of our products; • growth of the overall androgen market, which may be influenced by the sales and marketing efforts of our competitors; • entry into the marketplace of competitive products including generics; • developments concerning therapies that compete with Testim in the treatment of hypogonadism in adult males; • our ability to manufacture any products to commercial standards; • results of our clinical trials; • the regulatory status of our product candidates; • failure of any of our product candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; • regulatory developments in the U.S. and foreign countries; • developments or disputes concerning our patents or other proprietary rights; • public concern over our drugs; • litigation involving us, our general industry or both; • future sales of our common stock; • changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems, including developments in price control legislation; • departure of key personnel; • the degree to which any co-promotion, licensing or distribution arrangements generate revenue; • period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; • announcements of material events by those companies that are our third-party manufacturers and services providers, our partners, our competitors or perceived to be similar to us; • changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; • investors’ general perception of us; and • general economic, industry and market conditions. Furthermore, market prices for securities of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and specialty biopharmaceutical companies have been particularly volatile in recent years. The broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. If any of these risks occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to class action lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. 71 Table of Contents Possible dilutive effect of outstanding options and warrants. At the end of the period covered by this Report, stock options to purchase 5,359,110 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase 102,524 shares of common stock were outstanding. In addition, as of December 31, 2009, a total of 2,444,722 stock options are available for grant under our 2004 Equity Compensation Plan amended and restated as of December 1, 2009. A total of 1,874,113 of the outstanding options and warrants are “in the money” and exercisable as of December 31, 2009. “In the money” means that the current market price of the common stock is above the exercise price of the shares subject to the warrant or option. The issuance of common stock upon the exercise of these options and warrants could adversely affect the market price of the common stock or result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware law may prevent or frustrate a change in control in management that stockholders believe is desirable. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: • limitations on the removal of directors; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; • the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; and • the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of, and issue, new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a rights plan that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our board of directors. The affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote is necessary to amend or repeal the above provisions of our certificate of incorporation. In addition, absent approval of our board of directors, our bylaws may only be amended or repealed by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote. In addition, Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns or within the last three years has owned 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, Section 203 may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 