ITEM 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information included in this Report, the following factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. Any of the following risks, either alone or taken together, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations. If one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, our actual results may vary materially from what we projected. There may be additional risks that we do not presently know or that we currently believe are immaterial which could also impair our business or financial position. Risks Related to Our Financial Results and Need for Additional Financing We incurred significant losses since our inception and may not achieve profitability in the foreseeable future. We have incurred significant losses since our inception, including net losses of $46.3 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $270.5 million. We expect to continue to incur substantial expenses as we: • market and sell Testim®, our only approved product, through our sales force; • develop XIAFLEX™ (clostridial collagenase for injection), our product candidate for the treatment of Dupuytren’s contracture (“Dupuytren’s”, Peyronie’s disease (“Peyronie’s”) and Adhesive Capsulitis (“Frozen Shoulder syndrome”); AA4010, our overactive bladder transmucosal film product candidate; and our Fentanyl transmucosal film product candidate and any other product candidates that we license or acquire; • develop, and subsequently maintain, our manufacturing processes at scale; • seek regulatory approval for our product candidates; • prepare for the launch of and commercialize any of our product candidates that receive marketing approval or any approved products that we acquire or in-license; and • acquire or in-license new technologies or development stage or approved products. Accordingly, we expect to continue to incur substantial additional losses through the potential approval and successful launch of XIAFLEX for Dupuytren’s. In order to achieve and maintain profitability, we will need to generate significantly greater revenues from Testim and obtain marketing approval and successfully launch XIAFLEX for Dupuytren’s. If we fail to achieve profitability within the time frame expected by investors, the value of our common stock may decline substantially. As a development stage company, our future results are unpredictable, and therefore, our common stock is a highly speculative investment. We commenced operations in the fourth quarter of 1999 and have a limited operating history for you to evaluate our business. Accordingly, you must consider our prospects in light of the risks and difficulties encountered by companies in their early stages. The risks and difficulties that we may encounter include: • increasing the sales of Testim, our only product with marketing approval; • successfully developing, obtaining marketing approval for and manufacturing or having manufactured our current product candidates, including XIAFLEX for the treatment of Dupuytren’s, Peyronie’s, and Frozen Shoulder syndrome, AA4010 for the treatment of overactive bladder and our Fentanyl transmucosal film product candidate; • successfully identifying and developing new product candidates; • effectively commercializing any approved product candidates that we develop, including XIAFLEX or any approved products that we acquire; • responding to competitive pressures from other businesses, including the launch of any products, including generics, that compete with Testim in the treatment of hypogonadism; • identifying and negotiating favorable agreements with third parties for the manufacture, distribution and marketing and sales of our approved products; and • effectively managing our relationships with vendors and third parties. 26 Table of Contents All of our revenues to date have been generated from the sale of Testim or out-licensing of Testim and XIAFLEX, and, if these revenues do not grow, and we cannot commercialize new products, we will not become profitable. Our only product with marketing approval is Testim and our product revenues to date have been generated solely from the sale of Testim and out-licensing of Testim and XIAFLEX. Until such time as we develop, acquire or in-license additional products that are approved for marketing, we will continue to rely on Testim for all of our revenues. Accordingly, our success depends significantly on our ability to increase sales of Testim. Our sales and marketing efforts may not be successful in increasing prescriptions for Testim. Sales of Testim are subject to the following risks, among others: • growth of the overall androgen market which may be influenced by the sales and marketing efforts of our competitors; • acceptance by the medical community or the general public of Testim or testosterone as a safe or effective therapy for hypogonadism; • increasing awareness and continued acceptance of hypogonadism by the medical community, regulators or the general public as a medical disorder requiring treatment; • illegal substitution by pharmacists of AndroGel for Testim; • pressures from existing or new competing products, including generic products, that may provide therapeutic, convenience or pricing advantages over Testim or may garner a greater share of voice; • failure of third-party payors to provide coverage and sufficient reimbursement for Testim; and • impact of coverage and reimbursement changes, including Medicare Part D coverage and reimbursement. For the foreseeable future, if we are unable to grow Testim sales and out-licensing revenues, obtain approval for XIAFLEX, successfully launch XIAFLEX and grow its sales, we will be unable to increase our revenues or achieve profitability and we may be forced to delay or change our current plans to develop other product candidates. If our cash resources and interest are not sufficient, we may be required to limit, scale back or cease our operations. Based on our current plan, we believe that our existing cash resources, interest on these funds and short-term milestones from licensing activities will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating requirements until such time as we are profitable. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: • Testim market acceptance, sales growth and the impact of the abbreviated new drug application (“ANDA”) filed by Upsher-Smith Laboratories, Inc. (“Upsher-Smith”) containing a paragraph IV certification seeking approval from the FDA to market a generic version of Testim, including the cost of pursuing all available legal and regulatory options in defense of Testim; • our ability to realize sales efficiency and effectiveness of our sales force; • growth of the overall androgen market which may be influenced by the sales and marketing efforts of our competitors; • entry into the marketplace of competitive products; • third-party payor coverage and reimbursement for Testim; • the cost of manufacturing, distributing, marketing and selling Testim; • the scope, rate of progress and cost of our product development activities; • future clinical trial results; • the terms and timing of any future collaborative, licensing, co-promotion and other arrangements that we may establish; • the cost and timing of regulatory approvals; • the accuracy of market research regarding the commercial potential of XIAFLEX for a particular indication and any of our product candidates; 27 Table of Contents • the market acceptance and sales growth of XIAFLEX for a particular indication and any of our product candidates upon regulatory approval; • the costs of supplying and commercializing XIAFLEX and any of our product candidates; • increased administrative costs to support a growing infrastructure; • acquisition of a company or in-licensing costs; • the effect of competing technological and market developments; • changes to the regulatory approval process for product candidates in those jurisdictions, including the U.S., in which we may be seeking approval for our product candidates; • the cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights, including costs associated with the matter of Auxilium Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and CPEX Pharmaceuticals, Inc. vs. Upsher-Smith Laboratories, Inc. filed on December 2008 in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware (the “Upsher-Smith Litigation”); • the extent to which we acquire or invest in businesses, products and technologies; and • the timing of payment of milestones from licensing activities. These factors could result in variations from our currently projected operating and liquidity requirements. If our existing resources are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may need to borrow money or sell additional equity or debt securities. We may not be able to borrow money on commercially reasonable terms, particularly in light of the recent global economic crisis which has caused significant volatility in the credit and equity market. Moreover, the terms of the sale of any equity or debt securities may not be acceptable to us and could result in substantial dilution of your investment. If we are unable to obtain this additional financing, we may be required to: • reduce the size or scope, or both, of our sales and marketing efforts for Testim or any of our future products; • delay or reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our planned development, commercialization or expansion activities; • seek collaborators for our product candidates at an earlier stage than otherwise would be desirable and on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available; and/or • relinquish, license or otherwise dispose of rights to technologies, product candidates or products that we currently market or would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available. Our revenues, operating results and cash flows may fluctuate in future periods and we may fail to meet investor expectations, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Variations in our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period. We are a relatively new company and our sales prospects are uncertain. We have been selling Testim, our only approved product, since the first quarter of 2003 and cannot predict with certainty the timing or level of sales of Testim in the future. If our quarterly sales or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. In addition to the other factors discussed under these “Risk Factors,” specific factors that may cause fluctuations in our operating results include: • demand and pricing for Testim, including any change in wholesaler purchasing patterns or cost structures for our products or their services; • growth of the overall androgen market which may be influenced by the sales and marketing efforts of our competitors; • prescription levels relating to physician and patient acceptance of, and prescription costs for, Testim or any of our future products; • government or private healthcare reimbursement policies; • changes to the regulatory approval process for product candidates in those jurisdictions, including the U.S., in which we may be seeking approval for our product candidates; 28 Table of Contents • introduction of competing products, including generics; • any interruption in the manufacturing or distribution of Testim or any of our future products; • the timing and results of clinical trials for our product candidates; • the costs incurred in the manufacture of Testim and our product candidates; • our operating expenses, many of which are relatively fixed; • timing and costs associated with any new product or technology acquisitions we may complete; • variations in our rates of product returns, allowances and rebates and discounts; • Pfizer’s performance under the license agreement for XIAFLEX; and • milestone payments. Forecasting our revenues is further complicated by difficulties in estimating inventory levels at our wholesaler and chain drug store customers, prescription levels, the timing of purchases by wholesalers and retailers to replenish inventory and the occurrence and amount of product returns. As a result of these factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. Our investments in auction rate securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. As of December 31, 2008, we held $4.6 million par value of taxable auction rate securities (“ARS”), which are classified as long-term investments and reported at a fair value of $3.4 million. These investments are private placement securities with long-term stated maturities for which interest rates are reset through a “Dutch” auction every 28 or 35 days. They carry AAA/Aaa ratings and are backed by student loans which carry guarantees as provided under the Federal Family Education Loan Program of the U.S. Department of Education. The Dutch auctions have in the past provided a liquid market for these types of securities. With the liquidity issues experienced in global credit and capital markets, auctions of all the ARS we hold experienced failed auctions, beginning on February 11, 2008, as the amount of securities submitted for sale exceeded the amount of purchase orders. If the uncertainties in the credit and capital market continue, these markets deteriorate further or there are ratings downgrades on any of the ARS we hold, we may be required to recognize an impairment charge to earnings, if the decline in the value of these securities is assessed to be “other than temporary” under Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (“SFAS”) No.115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities. Further, we may not be able to liquidate these investments until successful auctions occur, a buyer outside the auction process is found, the issuer calls these debt securities, or the securities mature. The effects of the recent global economic crisis may impact our business, operating results or financial condition. U.S. and foreign markets have recently experienced historic dislocations and liquidity disruptions which have caused a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. These macroeconomic developments could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition in a number of ways. For example: • current or potential customers may be unable to fund purchases, which could cause them to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products or to not pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products; • current or potential patients may be unable or unwilling to pay for pharmaceutical prescriptions; and • third-party manufacturers and service providers may be unable to provide contracted goods or services. 29 Table of Contents In addition, financial institution failures may make it difficult either to obtain financing for potential operating needs or for investing activities, including the financing of any future acquisitions. Also, our investment policy, which includes short-term debt securities, is generally subject to general credit, liquidity, counterparty, market and interest rate risks that may be exacerbated by the recent global financial crisis. If the banking system or the fixed income, credit or equity markets continue to deteriorate or remain volatile, our investment portfolio may be impacted and the values and liquidity of our investments could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Development of Our Product Candidates We may not be able to develop product candidates into viable commercial products, which would impair our ability to grow and could cause a decline in the price of our stock. The process of developing product candidates involves a high degree of risk and may take several years. Product candidates may fail to reach the market for several reasons, including: • clinical trials may show our product candidates to be ineffective or not as effective as anticipated or to have harmful side effects or any unforeseen result; • our inability to enroll patients in clinical trials within the expected timeframes; • our inability to obtain authorization from FDA or other regulatory authority to initiate clinical trials within the expected timeframes; • product candidates may fail to receive regulatory approvals required to bring the products to market; • manufacturing costs and delays and manufacturing problems in general, the inability to scale up to produce supplies for clinical trials or commercial supplies, or other factors may make our product candidates uneconomical; • the proprietary rights of others and their competing products and technologies may prevent our product candidates from being effectively commercialized or to obtain exclusivity; and • failure to meet one or more of management’s target product profile criteria. 30 Table of Contents Success in preclinical and early clinical trials does not ensure that large-scale clinical trials will be successful. Clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. The length of time necessary to complete clinical trials and to submit an application for marketing approval for a final decision by a regulatory authority varies significantly and may be difficult to predict. Currently, there is substantial congressional and administration review of the regulatory approval process for drug candidates in the U.S. Any changes to the U.S. regulatory approval process could significantly increase the timing or cost of regulatory approval for our product candidates making further development uneconomical or impossible. In addition, developing product candidates is very expensive and will have a significant impact on our ability to generate profits. Factors affecting our product development expenses include: • changes to the regulatory approval process for product candidates in those jurisdictions, including the U.S., in which we may be seeking approval for our product candidates; • the cost and timing of manufacturing clinical or commercial supplies of product candidates, including the cost and timing of the implementation of any necessary corrective actions; • regulatory approval of tradenames for our product candidates and the timing thereof; • our ability to raise any additional funds that we need to complete our trials; • the number and outcome of clinical trials conducted by us and/or our collaborators; • the number of products we may have in clinical development; • in-licensing or other partnership activities, including the timing and amount of related development funding, license fees or milestone payments; and • future levels of our revenue. Our product development efforts also could result in large and immediate write-offs, significant milestone payments, incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities or amortization of expenses related to intangible assets, any of which could negatively impact our financial results. Additionally, if we are unable to develop our product candidates into viable commercial products, we may remain reliant solely on Testim sales for our revenues, potentially limiting our growth opportunities. If clinical trials for our product candidates are delayed, we would be unable to commercialize our product candidates on a timely basis, which could materially harm our business. Clinical trials that we may conduct may not begin on time or may need to be restructured or temporarily suspended after they have begun. Clinical trials can be delayed or may need to be restructured for a variety of reasons, including delays or restructuring related to: • changes to the regulatory approval process for product candidates in those jurisdictions, including the U.S., in which we may be seeking approval for our product candidates; • obtaining an investigational new drug exemption (“IND”), or other regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; • timing of responses required from regulatory authorities; • negotiating acceptable clinical trial agreement terms with prospective investigators or trial sites; • obtaining institutional review board, or equivalent, approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; • recruiting subjects to participate in a clinical trial; • competition in recruiting clinical investigators; • shortage or lack of availability of clinical trial supplies from external and internal sources; • the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive results or poorly executed testing; • the placement of a clinical hold on a study; • the failure of third parties conducting and overseeing the operations of our clinical trials to perform their contractual or regulatory obligations in a timely fashion; 31 Table of Contents • exposure of clinical trial subjects to unexpected and unacceptable health risks or noncompliance with regulatory requirements, which may result in suspension of the trial; and • manufacturing issues associated with clinical supplies. Prior to commencing clinical trials in the U.S., we must have an effective IND for each of our product candidates. An IND has been filed and is effective for XIAFLEX for the treatment of Dupuytren’s, XIAFLEX for the treatment of Peyronie’s, and XIAFLEX for the treatment of Frozen Shoulder syndrome; however, INDs have not been filed for AA4010 or our Fentanyl transmucosal film product candidate. We will not be able to commence clinical trials in the U.S. for these product candidates until we file, and the FDA fails to object to, an IND for each candidate. The foreign equivalent of an IND, a Clinical Trial Application (“CTA”) is a prerequisite to performing pilot studies or phase I clinical trials in many European countries. A CTA has been filed in select European countries and is effective for XIAFLEX for the treatment of Dupuytren’s. We have five projects in clinical development, specifically XIAFLEX for the treatment of Dupuytren’s, Peyronie’s and Frozen Shoulder syndrome, Fentanyl transmucosal film and AA4010. Completion of clinical trials for each product candidate will be required before commercialization. In December 2006, we suspended the dosing of patients in our ongoing phase III trials for XIAFLEX for the treatment of Dupuytren’s because of an issue related to the manufacture of clinical supplies of XIAFLEX and, as a result, the FDA placed a clinical hold on our XIAFLEX trials for the treatment of Dupuytren’s and Peyronie’s. The FDA lifted the clinical hold in August 2007 and cleared us to resume our XIAFLEX trials. With regard to the development of XIAFLEX for the treatment of Peyronie’s, the FDA required that certain additional pre-clinical studies be completed prior to the initiation of the phase IIb study or any other human study for Peyronie’s which resulted in a delay in commencement of our phase IIb study. We have completed these pre-clinical studies and completed patient enrollment in the U.S. phase IIb trial of XIAFLEX for the treatment of Peyronie’s. If we experience delays in, or termination of, clinical trials, or fail to enroll patients in clinical trials in a timely manner, or if the cost or timing of the regulatory approval process increases, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates will be adversely impacted. In addition, our product development costs would increase and our ability to generate additional revenue from new products could be impaired. Adverse events or lack of efficacy in our clinical trials may force us to stop development of our product candidates, prevent regulatory approval of our product candidates, or impact our existing products which could materially harm our business. Patients participating in the clinical trials of our product candidates may experience serious adverse health events. A serious adverse health event includes death, a life-threatening condition, hospitalization, disability, congenital anomaly, or a condition requiring intervention to prevent permanent impairment or damage. The occurrence of any of these events could interrupt, delay, suspend or halt clinical trials of our product candidates and could result in the FDA, or other regulatory authorities, denying approval of our product candidates for any or all targeted indications. Also, the occurrence of any of these events could impact our existing products. An institutional review board or independent data safety monitoring board, the FDA, other regulatory authorities or we may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time. Our product candidates may prove not to be safe for human use. Any delay in the regulatory approval of our product candidates could increase our product development costs and allow our competitors additional time to develop or market competing products. If our product candidates do not receive the necessary regulatory approval, we may remain reliant on sales of Testim as our sole source of revenue. The safety of XIAFLEX was assessed in 1,082 subjects who received at least one injection of XIAFLEX in over 2,600 joints. The most common adverse events were related to the injection or the subsequent procedure to disrupt the cord. These reactions were mild to moderate in intensity, and occurred within approximately four weeks of injection. The reactions generally resolved without intervention within approximately four weeks. The most frequently reported adverse events included peripheral edema, contusion, injection site reaction, injection site hemorrhage, and pain in extremity. In the clinical studies there were four serious adverse events related to the effect of XIAFLEX on collagen. There were three cases of tendon rupture and one case of pulley injury reported in patients who received XIAFLEX during the clinical development program. Our failure to successfully in-license or acquire additional technologies, product candidates or approved products could impair our ability to grow. We intend to in-license, acquire, develop and market additional products and product candidates so that we are not solely reliant on sales from Testim and any approved product candidates for our revenues. Because we have limited internal research capabilities, we are dependent upon pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and other researchers to sell or license products or technologies to us. The success of this strategy depends upon our ability to identify, select and acquire the right pharmaceutical product candidates, products and technologies. To date, we have in-licensed the formulation technology underlying Testim from CPEX, the transmucosal film technology underlying AA4010 and our Fentanyl transmucosal film product candidate from PharmaForm, and the enzyme underlying XIAFLEX from BioSpecifics. 32 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully identify any other commercial products or product candidates to in-license, acquire or internally develop. Moreover, negotiating and implementing an economically viable in-licensing arrangement or acquisition is a lengthy and complex process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater resources, may compete with us for the in-licensing or acquisition of product candidates and approved products. We may not be able to acquire or in-license the rights to additional product candidates and approved products on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. If we are unable to in-license or acquire additional commercial products or product candidates, we may be reliant solely on Testim sales for revenues. As a result, our ability to grow our business or increase our profits could be severely limited. If we engage in any acquisition, we will incur a variety of costs, and we may never realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Since our inception, we have acquired the underlying technology for Testim and all of our product candidates through in-licensing arrangements. The underlying technology for Testim was licensed from CPEX. The transmucosal film technology underlying AA4010 and the pain product candidates was licensed from PharmaForm. XIAFLEX, our product candidate for Dupuytren’s, Peyronie’s and Frozen Shoulder syndrome, was licensed from BioSpecifics. One of our strategies for business expansion is the acquisition of additional products and product candidates. We may attempt to acquire these product candidates, or other potentially beneficial technologies, through in-licensing or the acquisition of businesses, services or products that we believe are a strategic fit with our business. If we undertake an acquisition, the process of integrating any newly acquired business, technology, service or product into our existing operations could be expensive and time consuming and may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may divert significant management attention from our ongoing business operations. Moreover, we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition for a variety of reasons, such as an acquired product candidate proving to not be safe or effective in later clinical trials or not reaching its forecasted commercial potential. We may fund any future acquisition by issuing equity or debt securities, which could dilute your ownership percentage or limit our financial or operating flexibility as a result of restrictive covenants related to new debt. Acquisition efforts can consume significant management attention and require substantial expenditures, which could detract from our other programs. In addition, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions that are never completed. If we are unable to acquire and successfully integrate product candidates through in-licensing or the acquisition of businesses, services or products, we may remain reliant solely on Testim sales for revenue. In pursuing our acquisition strategy, we may expend significant management time, consulting costs and legal expenses without consummating a transaction. Risks Related to Regulatory Approval of Our Product Candidates We are subject to numerous complex regulatory requirements and failure to comply with these regulations, or the cost of compliance with these regulations, may harm our business. The testing, development, manufacture and distribution of our products are subject to regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the U.S., Europe and the rest of the world. These regulations govern or affect the testing, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, record-keeping, approval, distribution, advertising and promotion of Testim and our product candidates, as well as safe working conditions and the experimental use of animals. Noncompliance with any applicable regulatory requirements can result in refusal of the government to approve facilities for testing or manufacture of products as well as refusal to approve products for commercialization. Noncompliance with any applicable regulatory requirements also can result in criminal prosecution and fines, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, prohibitions or limitations on the commercial sale of products or refusal to allow the entering into of federal and state supply contracts. FDA and comparable governmental authorities have the authority to withdraw product approvals that have been previously granted. Currently, there is a substantial amount of congressional and administrative review of the FDA and the regulatory approval process for drug candidates in the U.S. As a result, there may be significant changes made to the regulatory approval process in the U.S. In addition, the regulatory requirements relating to the manufacturing, testing, labeling, promotion, marketing and distribution of our products may change in the U.S. or the other jurisdictions in which we may have obtained or be seeking regulatory approval for our products or product candidates. Such changes may increase our costs and adversely affect our operations. Testosterone is listed by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency (“DEA”) as a Schedule III substance under the Controlled Substances Act of 1970. The DEA classifies substances as Schedule I, II, III, IV or V substances, with Schedule I substances considered to present the highest risk of substance abuse and Schedule V substances the 33 Table of Contents lowest risk. Our pain transmucosal film product candidates may also involve the use of scheduled substances. Scheduled substances are subject to DEA regulations relating to manufacturing, storage, distribution and physician prescription procedures. For example, all regular Schedule III drug prescriptions must be signed by a physician and may not be refilled. Furthermore, the amount of Schedule III substances we can obtain for clinical trials and commercial distribution is limited by the DEA and our quota may not be sufficient to complete clinical trials or meet commercial demand, if any. Entities must be registered annually with the DEA to manufacture, distribute, dispense, import, export and conduct research using controlled substances. State controlled substance laws also require registration for similar activities. In addition, the DEA requires entities handling controlled substances to maintain records and file reports, follow specific labeling and packaging requirements, and provide appropriate security measures to control against diversion of controlled substances. Failure to follow these requirements can lead to significant civil and/or criminal penalties and possibly even lead to a revocation of a DEA registration. Products containing controlled substances may generate public controversy. As a result, these products may have their marketing rights or regulatory approvals withdrawn. Political pressures and adverse publicity could lead to delays in, and increased expenses for, and limit or restrict the introduction and marketing of our product candidates. For some scheduled substances or any product, the FDA may require us to develop a comprehensive risk management program to reduce the inappropriate use of our products and product candidates, including the manner in which they are marketed and sold, so as to reduce the risk of improper patient selection and diversion or abuse of the product. Developing such a program in consultation with the FDA may be a time-consuming process and could delay approval of any of our product candidates. Such a program or delays of any approval from the FDA could increase our product development costs and may allow our competitors additional time to develop or market competing products. Additionally, failure to comply with or changes to the regulatory requirements that are applicable to Testim or our other product candidates may result in a variety of consequences, including the following: • restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes; • warning letters; • withdrawal of Testim or a product candidate from the market; • voluntary or mandatory recall of Testim or a product candidate; • fines against us; • suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals for Testim or a product candidate; • suspension or termination of any of our ongoing clinical trials of a product candidate; • refusal to permit to import or export of our products; • refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit; • denial of permission to file an application or supplement in a jurisdiction; • product seizure; and • injunctions, consent decrees, or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties against us. If our product candidates are not demonstrated to be sufficiently safe and effective, they will not receive regulatory approval and we will be unable to commercialize them. Other than Testim, all of our other product candidates are in preclinical or clinical development and have not received regulatory approval from the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority. An IND has been filed and is effective for XIAFLEX for the treatment of Dupuytren’s, XIAFLEX for the treatment of Peyronie’s, and XIAFLEX for the treatment of Frozen Shoulder syndrome; however, INDs have not been filed for AA4010 or our pain transmucosal film product candidate. The regulatory approval process typically is extremely expensive, takes many years and the timing or likelihood of any approval cannot be accurately predicted. The foreign equivalent of an IND, a CTA, is a prerequisite to performing pilot studies or phase I clinical trials in many European countries. A CTA has been filed in select European countries and is effective for XIAFLEX for the treatment of Dupuytren’s. 34 Table of Contents As part of the regulatory approval process, we must conduct preclinical studies and clinical trials for each product candidate to demonstrate safety and efficacy. The number of preclinical studies and clinical trials that will be required varies depending on the product candidate, the indication being evaluated, the trial results and regulations applicable to any particular product candidate. The safety of XIAFLEX was assessed in 1,082 subjects who received at least one injection of XIAFLEX in over 2,600 joints. The most common adverse events were related to the injection or the subsequent procedure to disrupt the cord. These reactions were mild to moderate in intensity, and occurred within approximately four weeks of injection. The reactions generally resolved without intervention within approximately four weeks. The most frequently reported adverse events included peripheral edema, contusion, injection site reaction, injection site hemorrhage, and pain in extremity. In the clinical studies there were four serious adverse events related to the effect of XIAFLEX on collagen. There were three cases of tendon rupture and one case of pulley injury reported in patients who received XIAFLEX during the clinical development program. The results of preclinical studies and initial clinical trials of our product candidates do not necessarily predict the results of later-stage clinical trials. Product candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy despite having progressed through initial clinical trials. We cannot assure you that the data collected from the preclinical studies and clinical trials of our product candidates will be sufficient to support FDA or other regulatory approval. In addition, the continuation of a particular study after review by an institutional review board or independent data safety monitoring board does not necessarily indicate that our product candidate will achieve the clinical endpoint. The FDA and other regulatory agencies can delay, limit or deny approval for many reasons, including: • changes to the regulatory approval process for product candidates in those jurisdictions, including the U.S., in which we may be seeking approval for our product candidates; • a product candidate may not be deemed to be safe or effective; • the ability of the regulatory agency to provide timely responses as a result of its resource constraints; • the manufacturing processes or facilities may not meet the applicable requirements; and • changes in their approval policies or adoption of new regulations may require additional clinical trials or other data. Any delay in, or failure to receive, approval for any of our product candidates or the failure to maintain regulatory approval for Testim could prevent us from growing our revenues or achieving profitability. Risks Related to Commercialization If medical doctors do not prescribe our products or the medical profession or patients do not accept our products, our ability to grow or maintain our revenues will be limited. Our business is dependent on market acceptance of our products by physicians, healthcare payors, patients and the medical community. Medical doctors’ willingness to prescribe, and patients’ willingness to accept, our products depend on many factors, including: • perceived safety and efficacy of our products; • convenience and ease of administration; • prevalence and severity of adverse side effects in both clinical trials and commercial use; • availability of alternative treatments; • cost effectiveness; • effectiveness of our marketing strategy and the pricing of our products; • publicity concerning our products or competing products; and • our ability to obtain third-party coverage or reimbursement. Even though we have received regulatory approval for Testim, and even if we receive regulatory approval and satisfy the above criteria for any of our other product candidates, physicians may not prescribe, and patients may not accept, our products if we do not promote our products effectively. Factors that could affect our success in marketing our products include: • the adequacy and effectiveness of our sales force and that of any co-promotion partners or international partner’s sales force; • the adequacy and effectiveness of our production, distribution and marketing capabilities and those of our international partners; • the success of competing products, including generics; and • the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payors. 35 Table of Contents If any of our products or product candidates fails to achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to market and sell the products successfully, which would limit our ability to generate revenue and could harm our business. If testosterone replacement therapies are perceived, or are found, to create health risks, our sales of Testim may decrease and our operations may be harmed. Publications have, from time to time, suggested potential health risks associated with testosterone replacement therapy, or TRT. Potential health risks are described in various articles, including a 2002 article published in Endocrine Practice and a 1999 article published in the International Journal of Andrology. The potential health risks detailed are fluid retention, sleep apnea, breast tenderness or enlargement, increased red blood cells, development of clinical prostate disease, including prostate cancer, increased cardiovascular disease risk and the suppression of sperm production. It is possible that studies on the effects of TRT could demonstrate these or other health risks. This, as well as negative publicity about the risks of hormone replacement therapy, including TRT, could adversely affect patient or prescriber attitudes and impact Testim sales. In addition, investors may become concerned about these issues and decide to sell our common stock. These factors could adversely affect our business and the price of our common stock. Testim and any of our product candidates, if approved, may face competition from lower cost generic or follow-on products. Testim is approved under the provisions of the U.S. Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act that render them susceptible to potential competition from generic manufacturers via the ANDA procedure. Generic manufacturers pursuing ANDA approval are not required to conduct costly and time-consuming clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of their products; rather, they are permitted to rely on the innovator’s data regarding safety and efficacy. Thus, generic manufacturers can sell their products at prices much lower than those charged by the innovative pharmaceutical companies who have incurred substantial expenses associated with the research and development of the drug product. The ANDA procedure includes provisions allowing generic manufacturers to challenge the effectiveness of the innovator’s patent protection long prior to the generic manufacturer actually commercializing their products through the paragraph IV certification procedure. In recent years, generic manufacturers have used paragraph IV certifications extensively to challenge patents on a wide array of innovative pharmaceuticals, and we expect this trend to continue and to implicate drug products with even relatively small total revenues. In October 2008, we and our licensor, CPEX, received notice that Upsher-Smith filed an ANDA containing a paragraph IV certification seeking approval from the FDA to market a generic version of Testim prior to the January 2025 expiration of ’968 Patent. The ’968 Patent, which Bentley assigned to CPEX in June 2008, covers a method for maintaining effective blood serum testosterone levels for treating a hypogonadal male using Testim and is listed in Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations (commonly known as the Orange Book), published by the FDA. The paragraph IV certification sets forth allegations that the ’968 Patent will not be infringed by Upsher-Smith’s manufacture, use or sale of the product for which the ANDA was submitted. In December 2008, we filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Upsher-Smith, and we intend to take legal and regulatory actions in defense of Testim and the ’968 Patent, including enforcement of our intellectual property rights and approved labeling. Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, final FDA approval of Upsher-Smith’s proposed generic product will be stayed until the earlier of 30 months or resolution of the patent infringement lawsuit. Should Upsher-Smith receive an approval of its generic version of Testim from the FDA, it cannot lawfully launch its generic version of Testim in the U.S. before the earlier of the expiration of the currently pending 30-month stay or a district court decision in its favor. Biologics or “biotech drugs”, such as XIAFLEX if approved, are not currently considered susceptible to an abbreviated approval procedure, either due to current United States law or FDA practice in approving biologic products. However, the United States Congress is expected to continue to explore, and ultimately enact, legislation that would establish a procedure for the FDA to accept ANDA-like abbreviated applications for the approval of "follow-on," "biosimilar" or "comparable" biotech drugs. Such legislation has already been adopted in the European Union. 36 Table of Contents Testim competes in a very competitive market, and if we are unable to compete effectively with the other companies that produce products for the treatment of urologic or sexual health disorders, our ability to generate revenues will be limited. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. Our success will depend on our ability to acquire, develop and commercialize products and our ability to establish and maintain markets for Testim or any products for which we receive marketing approval. Potential competitors in North America, Europe and elsewhere include major pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions and government agencies. Other pharmaceutical companies may develop generic versions of any products that compete with our commercialized products or any of our products that do not infringe our patents or other proprietary rights, and, as a result, our business may be adversely affected. For example, because the ingredients of Testim are commercially available to third parties, it is possible that competitors may design formulations, propose dosages or develop methods of administration that would be outside the scope of the claims of one or more, or of all, of the patent rights that we in-license. This would enable their products to effectively compete with Testim. Governmental and other pressures to reduce pharmaceutical costs may result in physicians writing prescriptions for these generic products. Increased competition from the sale of competing generic pharmaceutical products could cause a material decrease in revenue from our products. AndroGel The primary competition for Testim in the TRT market is AndroGel, marketed by Solvay Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Solvay”). Solvay has the advantage of having launched AndroGel three years prior to Testim. Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Watson”) began co-promoting AndroGel with Solvay in late 2006, and Par Pharmaceutical Companies, Inc. (“Par”) began co-promoting AndroGel in early 2007. Solvay and its co-promotion partners collectively have more than 600 sales representatives detailing AndroGel. In January 2009, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and the State of California filed lawsuits against Watson and Par in the United States District Court for the Central District of California alleging that their respective 2006 patent lawsuit settlements with Solvay related to AndroGel are unlawful. According to IMS, as of December 31, 2008, AndroGel accounted for 77.7% of the gel prescriptions, down from 78.5% in December, 2007. This resulted from AndroGel’s share declining each quarter in 2008, while Testim’s share of the gel market increased. Other Delivery Options Testim also competes with other TRTs such as short-acting injectables, patches, orals, a buccal tablet and injectable pellets. The injectables have maintained presence in the market due to the low cost compared to the transdermal options. There are also a significant number of patients who prefer getting a shot every two to three weeks instead of utilizing a daily application of another product. Physicians perceive the disadvantage of the injectables as being the fact that many patients’ testosterone levels rise past the normal barrier of 1000 ng/dl which leads to a wide flux of levels in a patient and the potential for side effects such as gynecomastia. Androderm® is a transdermal testosterone patch marketed by Watson. Androderm is the leading patch product and accounted for approximately 6.5% of total TRT prescriptions in December 2008. The number of Androderm prescriptions has decreased in the last year. The buccal therapy accounts less than 1% of total TRT prescriptions in December 2008. Testopel is an implantable testosterone pellet that is administered every four to six months. Generic Competition In July 2003, Watson and Par filed ANDAs with the FDA to be approved as generics for AndroGel. In response to these ANDAs, Solvay filed patent infringement lawsuits against these two companies to block the approval and marketing of the generic products. In 2006, all the subject companies reached an agreement pursuant to which Watson and Par agreed not to bring a generic to Androgel to the market until August 2015. During this time frame, Solvay, Watson and Par will co-promote AndroGel. In January 2009, the FTC and the State of California filed lawsuits against Watson and Par in the United States District Court for the Central District of California alleging that their respective 2006 patent lawsuit settlements with Solvay related to AndroGel are unlawful. Any generic for AndroGel will not be a generic for Testim, since Testim is BX rated (or non-substitutable) with AndroGel. 37 Table of Contents In October 2008, we and our licensor, CPEX, received notice that Upsher-Smith filed an ANDA containing a paragraph IV certification seeking approval from the FDA to market a generic version of Testim prior to the January 2025 expiration of ’968 Patent. The ’968 Patent, which Bentley assigned to CPEX in June 2008, covers a method for maintaining effective blood serum testosterone levels for treating a hypogonadal male using Testim and is listed in Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations (commonly known as the Orange Book), published by the FDA. The paragraph IV certification sets forth allegations that the ’968 Patent will not be infringed by Upsher-Smith’s manufacture, use or sale of the product for which the ANDA was submitted. In December 2008, we filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Upsher-Smith, and we intend to take legal and regulatory actions in defense of Testim and the ’968 Patent, including enforcement of our intellectual property rights and approved labeling. Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, final FDA approval of Upsher-Smith’s proposed generic product will be stayed until the earlier of 30 months or resolution of the patent infringement lawsuit. Should Upsher-Smith receive an approval of its generic version of Testim from the FDA, it cannot lawfully launch its generic version of Testim in the U.S. before the earlier of the expiration of the currently pending 30-month stay or a district court decision in its favor. Other pharmaceutical companies may develop generic versions of any products that we commercialize that do not infringe our patents or other proprietary rights. Governmental and other cost containment pressures may result in physicians writing prescriptions for these generic products. Future Delivery Options In addition to potential generic competition, several other pharmaceutical companies have TRT products in development that may be approved for marketing in the U.S. and the rest of the world. Based on publicly available information, we believe that these products are in the development phases noted below. Phase III—Indevus Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Indevus”) has licensed a long acting testosterone injection that is currently marketed in Europe under the trade name Nebido™. In June 2008, Indevus announced that the FDA would require additional safety data before the FDA would further review the NDA for Nebido. In September 2008, Indevus announced that it had reached agreement with the FDA relative to the additional safety data and risk management strategy that would lead to resubmission (complete response) of the NDA for Nebido in the first quarter of 2009. Indevus has since changed the timing of the submission to the first half of 2009. As a result, we believe that the earliest that Nebido could now enter the market would be the first half of 2010. Endo Pharmaceuticals Inc. has agreed to purchase Indevus. It is not known whether this will have any impact on the resubmission of the NDA. Ardana Plc (“Ardana”), a U.K. company, was developing a testosterone cream for the U.S. market that failed a pivotal phase III study. In June 2008, Ardana ceased operations and appointed administrators to sell the company and/or its assets. ProStrakan Group Plc (“ProStrakan”) is developing a 2% testosterone gel that completed phase III in the second quarter of 2008 under a Special Protocol Assessment. ProStrakan publicly indicated that this would result in a submission to the FDA in late 2008 for a potential mid-2009 approval. However, this submission date has not been achieved and their future plans are not clear at this time. BioSante Pharmaceuticals/Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. are developing a testosterone gel (Bio-T-Gel) for male hypogonadism. Acrux Limited is developing a metered-dose lotion which entered phase III in the second quarter of 2008, with results targeted for the third quarter of 2009, and FDA submission targeted for the fourth quarter of 2009. Phase II—Clarus Therapeutics, Inc. is developing an oral testosterone which is in phase II. Other—Another potential introduction into the marketplace is an oral therapy, called Androxal, from Repros Therapeutics, Inc. (“Repros”). This molecule is designed to restore normal testosterone production in males rather than externally replacing testosterone like the current alternatives. However, Repros has been informed by the FDA that testosterone levels or Quality of Life measures will not be acceptable endpoints for phase III trials for hypogonadism. Hence, Repros is considering other potential indications. MacroChem Corporation has developed a testosterone gel that has completed phase I and is currently looking for a partner to assist with entering into phase II development. Other new treatments are being sought for TRT, including a new class of drugs called Selective Androgen Receptor Modulators (“SARMs”) as well as enhanced hydroalcoholic gel formulation of hydrotestosterone. These products are in development and their future impact on the treatment of testosterone deficiency is unknown. Lipocine Inc. is also developing an oral androgen product that we believe is in phase I at this time. 38 Table of Contents Finally, we face extensive competition in the acquisition or in-licensing of pharmaceutical products to enhance our portfolio of products. A number of more established companies, which have strategies to in-license or acquire products, may have competitive advantages, as may other emerging companies taking similar or different approaches to product acquisitions. In addition, a number of established research-based pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies may acquire products in late stages of development to augment their internal product lines. These established companies may have a competitive advantage over us due to their size, resources and experience. If third-party payors do not reimburse customers for Testim or any of our product candidates that are approved for marketing, they might not be used or purchased, and our revenues and profits will not grow. Our revenues and profits depend heavily upon the availability of coverage and reimbursement for the use of Testim, and any of our product candidates that are approved for marketing, from third-party healthcare and state and federal government payors, both in the U.S. and in foreign markets. Reimbursement by a third-party payor may depend upon a number of factors, including the third-party payor’s determination the product is: • competitively priced; • safe, effective and medically necessary; • appropriate for the specific patient; • cost-effective; and • neither experimental nor investigational. Since reimbursement approval for a product is required from third-party and government payors, seeking this approval, particularly when seeking approval for a preferred form of reimbursement over other competitive products, is a time-consuming and costly process. Third-party payors may require cost-benefit analysis data from us in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of any product we might bring to market. For any individual third-party payor, we may not be able to provide data sufficient to gain reimbursement on a similar or preferred basis to competitive products or at all. Once reimbursement at an agreed level is approved by a third-party payor, we may lose that reimbursement entirely or we may lose the similar or better reimbursement we receive compared to competitive products. As reimbursement is often approved for a period of time, this risk is greater at the end of the time period, if any, for which the reimbursement was approved. We do not know what the impact of changes to reimbursement programs, including Medicare Part D, might be. International commercialization of Testim and our product candidates faces significant obstacles. As with Testim, we may commercialize some of our product candidates internationally on our own or through collaborative relationships with foreign partners. We have limited foreign regulatory, clinical and commercial resources. We may not be able to enter into collaboration agreements with appropriate partners for important foreign markets on acceptable terms, or at all. Future collaborations with foreign partners may not be effective or profitable for us. Healthcare reform measures could adversely affect our business. The business and financial condition of pharmaceutical companies is affected by the efforts of governmental and third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare. In the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the healthcare system. For example, in some countries other than the U.S., pricing of prescription drugs is subject to government control, and we expect proposals to implement similar controls in the U.S. to continue. In particular, in January 2006, new Medicare prescription drug coverage legislation (Medicare Part D) was implemented. The prescription drug program established by this legislation and future amendments or regulatory interpretations of the legislation could have the effect of reducing the prices that we are able to charge for any products we develop and sell through these plans. This prescription drug legislation and related amendments or regulations could also cause third-party payors other than the federal government, including the states under the Medicaid program, to discontinue coverage for Testim or any products we develop or to lower reimbursement amounts that they pay. The impact that this program will have on Testim will take more time to determine as the competitive environment develops. 39 Table of Contents Further federal, state and foreign healthcare proposals and reforms are likely. While we cannot predict the legislative or regulatory proposals that will be adopted or what effect those proposals may have on our business, including the future reimbursement status of any of our product candidates, the pendency or approval of such proposals could result in a decrease in our stock price or limit our ability to raise capital or to obtain strategic partnerships or licenses. We could be negatively impacted by future interpretation or implementation of federal and state fraud and abuse laws, including anti-kickback laws, false claims laws and federal and state anti-referral laws. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws, false claims laws and physician self-referral laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, Department of Defense and Veterans’ health programs. We have not been challenged by a governmental authority under any of these laws and believe that our operations are in compliance with such laws. However, because of the far-reaching nature of these laws, we may be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. Health care fraud and abuse regulations are complex, and even minor, inadvertent irregularities can potentially give rise to claims that the law has been violated. Any violations of these laws could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If there is a change in law, regulation or administrative or judicial interpretations, we may have to change our business practices or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could become subject to false claims litigation under federal or state statutes, which can lead to civil money penalties, criminal fines and imprisonment, and/or exclusion from participation in federal health care programs. These false claims statutes include the federal False Claims Act, which allows any person to bring suit alleging the false or fraudulent submission of claims for payment under federal programs or other violations of the statute and to share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. Such suits, known as qui tam actions, have increased significantly in recent years and have increased the risk that companies like us may have to defend a false claim action. We could also become subject to similar false claims litigation under state statutes. If we are unsuccessful in defending any such action, such action may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities. The commercialization of Testim and the clinical testing, manufacture and commercialization of our product candidates, if approved, involves significant exposure to product liability claims. We have clinical trial and product liability insurance that covers Testim and the clinical trials of our other product candidates that we believe is adequate in both scope and amount and has been placed with what we believe to be reputable insurers. We are self-insured for the first $1.0 million of liability under these policies. Our product liability policies have been written on a claims-made basis. If any of our product candidates are approved for marketing, we may seek additional coverage. We cannot predict all of the adverse health events that Testim or our product candidates may cause. As a result, our current and future coverages may not be adequate to protect us from all the liabilities that we may incur. If losses from product liability claims exceed our insurance coverage, we may incur substantial liabilities that exceed our financial resources. Whether or not we are ultimately successful in product liability litigation, such litigation could consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources, and might result in adverse publicity, all of which would impair our business. We may not be able to maintain our clinical trial insurance or product liability insurance at an acceptable cost, if at all, and this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential claims or losses. If we are required to pay a product liability claim, we may not have sufficient financial resources and our business and results of operations may be harmed. 40 Table of Contents We may be exposed to liability claims associated with the use of hazardous materials and chemicals. Our research and development activities and our commercial product, Testim, involve the use of testosterone and large amounts of alcohol which are classified as hazardous materials and chemicals. XIAFLEX, our product candidate for the treatment of Dupuytren’s, Peyronie’s and Frozen Shoulder syndrome, is a biologic product. Biologic products may present a manufacturing health hazard due to risk of infection with the bacterial cell line used to produce the product or with potential bacteriophage contamination with the fermentation. Although we believe that our safety procedures for using, storing, handling, manufacturing and disposing of these materials comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from these materials. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages and any liability could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous or radioactive materials and waste products may require us to incur substantial compliance costs that could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. To our knowledge, we have not been the subject of any investigation by any agency or authority for failure to comply with any rules or regulations applicable to hazardous materials or chemicals. We do not maintain specific insurance for the handling of biological, hazardous and radioactive materials. We have contracts with third-party providers for the storage and disposal of hazardous waste and believe that any claims against us in these areas would be the responsibility of these third parties. However, we may be held responsible for these claims despite the fact that we have contracted with third parties for the storage and disposal of hazardous waste. If we are exposed to these types of claims, we could be held responsible for liabilities that exceed our financial resources, which could severely affect our operations. Risks Related to the Manufacture of XIAFLEX We have limited experience in manufacturing pharmaceutical products and may encounter difficulties in the manufacture of the active ingredient of XIAFLEX at our facility in Horsham, Pennsylvania which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or delay or disrupt our development timelines for XIAFLEX. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment. Although we leased our facility in Horsham in order to have direct control over the manufacturing of the active ingredient of XIAFLEX, for which we expect to be the sole supplier for commercial supply, we have limited experience in manufacturing XIAFLEX or any other pharmaceutical product. We may encounter difficulties with the manufacture of the active ingredient of XIAFLEX which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or delay or disrupt our development timelines for XIAFLEX. These problems may include: • our ability to develop and implement an internal manufacturing capability; • difficulties with production and yields, including scale-up and achieving adequate capacity for such supply; • availability of raw materials and supplies; • quality control and assurance; • shortages of qualified personnel; • compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations; and • lack of capital funding. Furthermore, our manufacturing operations expose us to a variety of significant risks, including: • product defects; • contamination of product or product loss; • environmental liabilities or claims resulting from our production process or contamination at our Horsham facility; • sudden loss of inventory; • reduction of the commercialization payments owed by Pfizer under our agreement and Pfizer gaining the right to engage a third party manufacturer for XIAFLEX; 41 Table of Contents • Pfizer termination of the license agreement for breach of contract; and • inability to manufacture products at a cost that is competitive with third party manufacturing operations. If we are unable to gain regulatory approval for XIAFLEX, we may not have an alternate use for our Horsham facility but will be required to make payments under our lease. We have entered into a lease for our facility in Horsham, which expires on January 1, 2017. If we are unable to gain regulatory approval for XIAFLEX, we may not have an alternate use for the manufacturing facility but will be required to make payments under our lease. As of December 31, 2008, the total future minimum lease payments of this lease during its initial noncancellable term are approximately $24.9 million. Our Horsham facility is subject to regulatory oversight, which may delay or disrupt our development and commercialization efforts for XIAFLEX. We must ensure that all of the processes, methods, equipment and facilities employed in the manufacture of XIAFLEX at our Horsham facility are compliant with the current Good Manufacturing Practices (“cGMP”). The cGMP requirements govern quality control of the manufacturing process and documentation policies and procedures. Compliance with cGMP requires record keeping and quality control to assure that the clinical and commercial product meets applicable specifications and other requirements. Our Horsham facility will be subject to inspection by regulatory agencies after the filing for approval of XIAFLEX with regulatory authorities. If an inspection by regulatory authorities indicates that there are deficiencies including non-compliance with regulatory requirements, we could be required to take remedial actions, stop production or close our Horsham facility, which would disrupt the manufacturing processes, limit the supplies of XIAFLEX and delay clinical trials and subsequent licensure. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we may not be permitted to sell our products or may be limited in the jurisdictions in which we are permitted to sell them. Following licensure of our Horsham facility, noncompliance with any applicable regulatory requirements may result in refusal by regulatory authorities to allow use of XIAFLEX made at our Horsham facility in clinical trials, refusal of the government to allow distribution of XIAFLEX for commercialization, criminal prosecution and fines, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, prohibitions or limitations on the commercial sale of products or refusal to allow the entering into of federal and state supply contracts. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third-Party Manufacturers and Service Providers Since we currently rely on third-party manufacturers and suppliers, we may be unable to control the availability or cost of manufacturing our products, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We currently do not manufacture Testim or any of our product candidates, except for the active ingredient for XIAFLEX for which we expect to be the sole source of supply for the commercial supply. Hollister-Stier Laboratories LLC (“Hollister-Stier”) will fill and lyophilize the XIAFLEX bulk drug substance that we manufacture and will produce sterile diluent. Testim is manufactured for us by DPT, under a contract that expires on December 31, 2010. We have qualified a back-up supplier to manufacture Testim. Our transmucosal film product candidates are manufactured by PharmaForm. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment. Hollister-Stier, DPT, our back-up supplier for Testim, or any other third-party manufacturer may encounter difficulties in production. These problems may include: • difficulties with production costs and yields; • availability of raw materials and supplies; • quality control and assurance; • shortages of qualified personnel; • compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations; and • lack of capital funding. 42 Table of Contents Hollister-Stier, DPT, PharmaForm, or any of our other third-party manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may terminate its agreement with us, which would adversely impact our ability to produce and sell Testim or our ability to produce XIAFLEX or other product candidates for clinical trials. The number of third-party manufacturers with the expertise, required regulatory approvals and facilities to manufacture bulk drug substance on a commercial scale is limited, and it would take a significant amount of time to arrange and receive regulatory approval for alternative arrangements. We may not be able to contract for the manufacturing of Testim or any of our product candidates on acceptable terms, if at all, which would materially impair our business. In December 2006, we suspended the dosing of our ongoing phase III trials for XIAFLEX for the treatment of Dupuytren’s in response to an issue related to the manufacture of clinical supplies and, as a result, the FDA placed these trials on clinical hold. The FDA lifted the clinical hold in August 2007 and cleared us to resume our XIAFLEX trials. While we believe that we have taken all appropriate remedial measures to address this issue, we cannot assure you that we will not encounter similar or other issues related to the manufacture of our products and product candidates. Any of these factors could increase our costs and result in us being unable to effectively commercialize or develop our products. Furthermore, if DPT, our back-up supplier for Testim or any other third-party manufacturer fails to deliver the required commercial quantities of finished product on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, we may be unable to meet the demand for our products and we may lose potential revenues. We rely on a single source supplier and a limited number of suppliers for two of the primary ingredients for Testim and the loss of any of these suppliers could prevent us from selling Testim, which would materially harm our business. We rely on third-party suppliers for our supply of testosterone and CPD, two key ingredients of Testim. Testosterone is available to us from only two sources. We rely exclusively on one outside source for our supply of CPD. We do not have any agreements with these suppliers regarding these key ingredients. If either of the two sources that produce testosterone stops manufacturing it, or if we are unable to procure testosterone on commercially favorable terms, or if we are not able to obtain it in a timely manner, we may be unable to continue to produce or sell Testim on commercially viable terms, if at all. In addition, if our third-party source of CPD stops manufacturing pharmaceutical grade CPD, or does not make CPD available to us on commercially favorable terms, we may be unable to continue to produce or sell Testim on commercially viable terms, if at all. Furthermore, the limited number of suppliers of testosterone and CPD may provide such companies with greater opportunity to raise their prices. Any increase in price for testosterone or CPD may reduce our gross margins. Due to our reliance on contract research organizations or other third parties to assist us in conducting clinical trials, we are unable to directly control all aspects of our clinical trials. Currently, we rely in part on third parties to conduct our clinical trials for the expansion of Testim and the development of our product candidates. As a result, we have had and will continue to have less control over the conduct of the clinical trials, the timing and completion of the trials and the management of data developed through the trial than would be the case if we were relying entirely upon our own staff. Communicating with outside parties can also be challenging, potentially leading to mistakes as well as difficulties in coordinating activities. Outside parties may: • have staffing difficulties; • experience regulatory compliance issues; or • undergo changes in priorities or may become financially distressed. These factors may adversely affect their willingness or ability to conduct our trials. We may experience unexpected cost increases that are beyond our control. Problems with the timeliness or quality of the work of a contract research organization may lead us to seek to terminate the relationship and use an alternative service provider. However, making this change may be costly and may delay our trials, and contractual restrictions may make such a change difficult or impossible. Our contracts with the contract research organizations on which we currently rely are each terminable upon 30-days prior written notice. If we must replace any of these contract research organizations or any other contract research organization we may use in the future to conduct our clinical trials, our trials may have to be suspended until we find another contract research organization that offers comparable services. The time that it takes us to find alternative organizations may cause a delay in the 43 Table of Contents commercialization of our product candidates or may cause us to incur significant expenses to replicate data that may be lost. Although we do not believe that the contract research organizations on which we rely offer services that are not available elsewhere, it may be difficult to find a replacement organization that can conduct our trials in an acceptable manner and at an acceptable cost. Any delay in or inability to complete our clinical trials could significantly compromise our ability to secure regulatory approval of the relevant product candidate and preclude our ability to commercialize the product, thereby limiting our ability to generate revenue from the sales of products other than Testim, which may result in a decrease in our stock price. Our third-party manufacturers are subject to regulatory oversight, which may delay or disrupt our development and commercialization efforts. Third-party manufacturers of our products or product candidates must ensure that all of the processes, methods and equipment are compliant with cGMP, and conduct extensive audits of vendors, contract laboratories and suppliers. The cGMP requirements govern quality control of the manufacturing process and documentation policies and procedures. Compliance by third-party manufacturers with cGMP requires record keeping and quality control to assure that the product meets applicable specifications and other requirements. Manufacturing facilities are subject to inspection by regulatory agencies at any time. If an inspection by regulatory authorities indicates that there are deficiencies, third-party manufacturers could be required to take remedial actions, stop production or close the facility, which would disrupt the manufacturing processes and limit the supplies of Testim or our product candidates. If they fail to comply with these requirements, we also may be required to curtail the clinical trials of our product candidates, which are also supplied by these manufacturers, and may not be permitted to sell our products or may be limited in the jurisdictions in which we are permitted to sell them. Over 90% of our product shipments are to only three customers; if any of these customers refuse to distribute Testim on commercially favorable terms, or at all, our business will be adversely affected. We sell Testim to wholesale drug distributors and chain drug stores who generally sell products to retail pharmacies, hospitals and other institutional customers. We do not promote Testim to these customers, and they do not determine Testim prescription demand. However, over 90% of our product shipments during the period covered by this Report were to only three customers: Cardinal Health, Inc., McKesson Corporation and AmerisourceBergen Corporation. Our business would be harmed if any of these customers refused to distribute Testim or refuse to purchase Testim on commercially favorable terms to us. It is possible that wholesalers could decide to change their policies or fees, or both, in the future. This could result in their refusal to distribute smaller volume products, or cause higher product distribution costs, lower margins or the need to find alternative methods of distributing products. Such alternative methods may not exist or may not be economically viable. If we are unable to grow our sales, marketing or distribution capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to perform some of these functions, we will not be able to grow our business. As an organization, we have a limited history in sales, marketing and distribution. To directly market and distribute Testim, XIAFLEX, if approved, or any of our product candidates which receive regulatory approval, we must continue to enhance our sales and marketing efforts and our distribution capabilities. For our direct sales efforts, we will need to hire additional salespeople in order to grow and manage any turnover that occurs in our sales force. For some market opportunities, we may need to enter into co-promotion agreements or other licensing arrangements with pharmaceutical or biotechnology firms in order to increase the commercial success of our products. We may not be able to grow our direct sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or enter into future co-promotion or similar licensing arrangements with third parties in a timely manner, or on acceptable terms. To the extent that we enter into future co-promotion or other licensing arrangements, our product revenues may be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our products, and some or all of the revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, and these efforts may not be successful or our future partners may not devote sufficient resources to our products. Additionally, building marketing and distribution capabilities may be more expensive than we anticipate, requiring us to divert capital from other intended purposes or preventing us from building our marketing and distribution capabilities to the desired levels. 44 Table of Contents Risks Related to Collaborators We are dependent upon our collaborative relationship with Pfizer to further develop and commercialize XIAFLEX. There may be circumstances that delay or prevent Pfizer’s ability to develop and commercialize XIAFLEX. In December 2008, we entered into a development, commercialization and supply agreement with Pfizer (the Pfizer Agreement”) wherein we granted to Pfizer the right to develop and commercialize, with the right to sublicense, XIAFLEX for the treatment of Peyronie’s and Dupuytren’s in 27 member countries of the European Union, as well as certain other Eurasian countries (the “Pfizer Territory”). Under our agreement Pfizer is solely responsible for regulatory approval, and commercialization, of XIAFLEX in the Pfizer Territory, so we are entirely dependent on Pfizer for the successful completion of those activities. We are subject to a number of risks associated with our dependence on our collaborative relationship with Pfizer, including: • adverse decisions by Pfizer regarding the amount and timing of resource expenditures for the development and commercialization of XIAFLEX; • possible disagreements as to the timing, nature and extent of our development plans, including clinical trials or regulatory approval strategy; • the right of Pfizer to terminate its collaboration agreement with us on limited notice upon the occurrence of certain defined events; • loss of significant rights if we fail to meet our obligations under the collaboration agreement; • withdrawal of support by Pfizer following change of Pfizer corporate strategy or due to competing priorities; • changes in key management personnel at Pfizer that are members of the collaboration’s various operating committees; and • possible disagreements with Pfizer regarding the collaboration agreement or ownership of proprietary rights. Due to these factors and other possible disagreements with Pfizer, we may be delayed or prevented from further developing, manufacturing or commercializing XIAFLEX in the Pfizer Territory, or we may become involved in litigation or arbitration, which would be time consuming and expensive. The term of the Pfizer Agreement extends, on a country by country basis, until the latest of (i) the date in which XIAFLEX is no longer covered by a valid patent claim in such country, (ii) the 15th anniversary of the first commercial sale by Pfizer of XIAFLEX in a given country and (iii) entry of a generic with respect to XIAFLEX in such country. Pfizer can terminate upon the occurrence of certain defined events. If Pfizer were to unilaterally terminate, we would need to undertake development and marketing activities for XIAFLEX in the Pfizer Territory solely at our own expense and/or seek another partner for some or all of these activities in the Pfizer Territory. If we pursued these activities in the Pfizer Territory on our own, it would significantly increase our capital and infrastructure requirements, and might limit the indications we are able to pursue and could prevent us from effectively developing and commercializing XIAFLEX. If we sought to find another pharmaceutical company partner for some or all of these activities, we may not be successful in such efforts, or they may result in a collaboration that has us expending greater funds and efforts than our current relationship with Pfizer. 45 Table of Contents In general, we cannot control the amount and timing of resources that Pfizer may devote to our collaboration. If Pfizer fails to assist in the further development or the commercialization of XIAFLEX, or if Pfizer’s efforts are not effective, our business may be negatively affected. We are relying on Pfizer to obtain regulatory approvals for and successfully commercialize XIAFLEX in the Pfizer Territory. Our collaboration with Pfizer may not be successful. If Pfizer ceases developing and commercializing XIAFLEX, we would have to seek additional sources for funding and may have to delay, reduce or eliminate one or more of our commercialization and development programs for XIAFLEX or our other product candidates. If we and Pfizer cannot agree on the development plan for XIAFLEX, development and commercialization progress could be significantly delayed or halted. We are dependent on the efforts of Pfizer to market and promote XIAFLEX. Under the Pfizer Agreement, Pfizer will exclusively promote XIAFLEX in the Pfizer Territory, and we have only a limited ability to direct Pfizer in its commercialization of XIAFLEX in the Pfizer Territory. We are thus solely dependent on Pfizer to successfully promote XIAFLEX to physicians and customers in the Pfizer Territory. If Pfizer fails to adequately market and promote XIAFLEX in the Pfizer Territory, we may be unable to obtain any remedy against Pfizer and sales of XIAFLEX may be harmed, which would negatively impact our business, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity due to reduced milestone and royalty payments under the Pfizer Agreement. If Pfizer’s business strategy changes, it may adversely affect our collaborative relationship. Any decision by Pfizer to either reduce or eliminate its participation in the Dupuytren’s or Peyronie’s indications, to emphasize other competitive agents currently in its portfolio at the expense of XIAFLEX, or to add additional competitive agents to its portfolio, could reduce its financial incentive to continue to develop, seek regulatory approval for, or commercialize XIAFLEX. Such a change in Pfizer’s business strategy may adversely affect activities under its agreement with us, which could cause significant delays and funding shortfalls impacting the activities under the collaboration and seriously harming our business. We are dependent on the funding by Pfizer for the development of XIAFLEX. The financial returns to us, if any, under our collaboration agreement with Pfizer depend in large part on the achievement of development and commercialization milestones, and royalties from sales in the Pfizer Territory. Therefore, our success in the Pfizer Territory, and any associated financial returns to us and our investors, will depend in part on the performance of Pfizer under the agreement. If Pfizer fails to perform or satisfy its obligations to us, the development, regulatory approval or commercialization of XIAFLEX in the Pfizer Territory would be delayed or may not occur and our business and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Subject to certain limitations set forth in the Pfizer Agreement, Pfizer may terminate on limited notice to us upon the occurrence of certain defined events. If Pfizer terminates, we may be unable to fund the development costs of XIAFLEX and other product candidates on our own and may be unable to find a new collaborator, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Intellectual Property Upsher-Smith’s ANDA filed with a Paragraph IV certification under the Hatch-Waxman Act related to Testim could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations as it could result in the introduction of a generic product prior to the expiration of the patent covering Testim, as well as in significant legal expenses and diversion of management time. In October 2008, we and our licensor, CPEX, received notice that Upsher-Smith filed an ANDA containing a paragraph IV certification seeking approval from the FDA to market a generic version of Testim prior to the January 2025 expiration of ’968 Patent. The ’968 Patent, which Bentley assigned to CPEX in June 2008, covers a method for maintaining effective blood serum testosterone levels for treating a hypogonadal male using Testim and is listed in Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations (commonly known as the Orange Book), 46 Table of Contents published by the FDA. The paragraph IV certification sets forth allegations that the ’968 Patent will not be infringed by Upsher-Smith’s manufacture, use or sale of the product for which the ANDA was submitted. In December 2008, we filed the Upsher-Smith Litigation, and we intend to take legal and regulatory actions in defense of Testim and the ’968 Patent, including enforcement of our intellectual property rights and approved labeling. Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, final FDA approval of Upsher-Smith’s proposed generic product will be stayed until the earlier of 30 months or resolution of the patent infringement lawsuit. Should Upsher-Smith receive an approval of its generic version of Testim from the FDA, it cannot lawfully launch its generic version of Testim in the U.S. before the earlier of the expiration of the currently pending 30-month stay or a district court decision in its favor. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs related to the Upsher-Smith Litigation and may incur costs related to any other legal and regulatory actions that we may undertake. The Upsher-Smith Litigation could result in a finding that Upsher-Smith’s proposed testosterone product does not infringe the ’968 Patent or that the ‘968 Patent is invalid and/or unenforceable. An adverse outcome in the Upsher-Smith Litigation or any such legal action could result in one or more generic versions of Testim being launched in the U.S. before the expiration of the ’968 Patent in January 2025. Since Testim is currently our only marketed product, the introduction of a generic version could have a material adverse affect on our ability to successfully execute our business strategy to maximize the value of Testim as we continue to develop our product pipeline and therefore could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. If we breach any of the agreements under which we license commercialization rights to products or technology from others, we could lose license rights that are critical to our business. We are a party to a number of license agreements by which we have rights to use the intellectual property of third parties that are necessary for us to operate our business. In particular, we have obtained the exclusive right to develop and commercialize Testim pursuant to a license agreement with CPEX. CPEX may unilaterally terminate the agreement if we fail to make payments under this agreement and this failure continues for a period of 30 days following written notice to us by CPEX. If the agreement is properly terminated by CPEX, we may not be able to manufacture or sell Testim. Additionally, we have obtained exclusive rights to make and sell products that are used for hormone replacement, to treat any type of urologic disorder or as a pain therapy incorporating PharmaForm’s transmucosal film technology. This agreement continues for the life of the licensed patent rights. Either party may terminate this agreement under certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency by the other party. PharmaForm may unilaterally terminate this agreement if: • we fail to make payments under this agreement and this failure continues for a period of 30 days following written notice to us by PharmaForm; or • we fail to initiate clinical trials within two years of availability of final formulation in quantities adequate for clinical testing and associated documentation for clinical trials. If our agreement with PharmaForm is properly terminated by PharmaForm, we may not be able to execute our strategy to develop, manufacture or sell transmucosal film products. To the extent that unpatented PharmaForm trade secrets are necessary for the manufacture of the transmucosal product candidates, our license to such trade secrets would expire with the expiration of the licensed patents in 2020 or later and potentially impair our continued commercialization of our transmucosal product candidates thereafter. We have also obtained exclusive worldwide rights from BioSpecifics to develop, market and sell products, other than dermal formulations labeled for topical administration, that contain BioSpecifics’ enzyme, which we refer to as XIAFLEX, for the treatment of Dupuytren’s, Peyronie’s and Frozen Shoulder syndrome. We may expand the agreement, at our option, to license products which contain BioSpecifics’ enzyme for other indications, excluding dermal formulations labeled for topical administration, as they are developed by BioSpecifics or by us. This agreement continues on a product by product and country by country basis until the later of: • the last to expire valid claim of a patent covering such product; • the expiration of the regulatory period conveyed by orphan drug designation with respect to such product; and • 12 years. 47 Table of Contents Upon expiration of the agreement pursuant to the preceding sentence, we will have a fully paid-up license to the products developed under the agreement. Either party may terminate this agreement in the event of bankruptcy or insolvency by the other party. Additionally, either party may terminate this agreement if the other party is in material breach of its obligations under the agreement which continues for a period of 90 days following receipt of written notice of such material breach. We may terminate this agreement in its entirety, or on a country by country basis, on an indication by indication basis, or on a product by product basis, at any time upon 90 days prior written notice to BioSpecifics. If this agreement is properly terminated by BioSpecifics, we may not be able to execute our strategy to develop and commercialize XIAFLEX for the treatment of Dupuytren’s, Peyronie’s and Frozen Shoulder syndrome or to develop and commercialize future product candidates utilizing BioSpecifics’ enzyme. We expect to enter into additional licenses in the future. These licenses may impose various development, commercialization, funding, royalty, diligence or other obligations on us. If we breach any of these obligations, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license or render the license non-exclusive, which could make it impossible for us to develop, manufacture or sell the products covered by the license. Disputes may arise with respect to our licensing agreements regarding manufacturing, development and commercialization of any products relating to our in-licensed intellectual property, including Testim. These disputes could lead to delays in or termination of the development, manufacture and commercialization of Testim or our product candidates or to litigation. We may become involved in disputes with Pfizer or potential future collaborators over intellectual property ownership, and publications by our research collaborators and scientific advisors could impair our ability to obtain patent protection or protect our proprietary information, which, in either case, could have a significant impact on our business. Inventions discovered under research, material transfer or other such collaborative agreements, including our collaboration agreement with Pfizer, may become jointly owned by us and the other party to such agreements in some cases, and the exclusive property of either party in other cases. Under some circumstances, it may be difficult to determine who owns a particular invention, or whether it is jointly owned, and disputes could arise regarding ownership of those inventions. These disputes could be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome could have a significant adverse effect on our business if we were not able to protect or license rights to these inventions. In addition, our research collaborators and scientific advisors may have contractual rights to publish our data and other proprietary information, subject to our prior review. Publications by our research collaborators and scientific advisors containing such information, either with our permission or in contravention of the terms of their agreements with us, may impair our ability to obtain patent protection or protect our proprietary information, which could significantly harm our business. We have only limited patent protection for Testim and our product candidates, and we may not be able to obtain, maintain and protect proprietary rights necessary for the development and commercialization of Testim or our product candidates. Our business and competitive positions are dependent upon our ability to obtain and protect our proprietary position for Testim and our product candidates in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere. Because of the substantial length of time and expense associated with development of new products, we, along with the rest of the biopharmaceutical industry, place considerable importance on obtaining and maintaining patent protection for new technologies, products and processes. The patent positions of pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including ours, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Our and our licensors’ patents and patent applications may not protect our technologies and products because, among other things: • there is no guarantee that any of our or our licensors’ pending patent applications will result in issued patents; • we may develop additional proprietary technologies that are not patentable; • there is no guarantee that any patents issued to us, our collaborators or our licensors will provide us with any competitive advantage or cover our product candidates; 48 Table of Contents • there is no guarantee that any patents issued to us or our collaborators or our licensors will not be challenged, circumvented or invalidated by third parties; and • there is no guarantee that any patents previously issued to others or issued in the future will not have an adverse effect on our ability to do business. We attempt to protect our intellectual property position by filing or obtaining licenses to patent applications and, where appropriate, patent applications in other countries related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business. Our PharmaForm transmucosal film product candidates are covered by a formulation patent in the U.S. only. This patent expires in 2020. Testosterone, the active ingredient in Testim, is off-patent and is included in competing TRT products. In the U.S., there is a method of use patent that expires in January 2025. Even though a patent has issued that will not expire until 2025, if a generic version of Testim is launched in the U.S., we may not be able to halt sales of such generic during the pendency of a patent infringement suit against generics, if ever. CPEX has filed continuation and divisional applications with the USPTO, which may provide us with further market protection if a patent or patents issue from any of these applications. In October 2008, we and our licensor, CPEX, received notice that Upsher-Smith filed an ANDA containing a paragraph IV certification seeking approval from the FDA to market a generic version of Testim prior to the January 2025 expiration of ’968 Patent. The ’968 Patent, which Bentley assigned to CPEX in June 2008, covers a method for maintaining effective blood serum testosterone levels for treating a hypogonadal male using Testim and is listed in Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations (commonly known as the Orange Book), published by the FDA. The paragraph IV certification sets forth allegations that the ’968 Patent will not be infringed by Upsher-Smith’s manufacture, use or sale of the product for which the ANDA was submitted. In December 2008, we filed the Upsher-Smith Litigation, and we intend to take legal and regulatory actions in defense of Testim and the ’968 Patent, including enforcement of our intellectual property rights and approved labeling. Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, final FDA approval of Upsher-Smith’s proposed generic product will be stayed until the earlier of 30 months or resolution of the patent infringement lawsuit. Should Upsher-Smith receive an approval of its generic version of Testim from the FDA, it cannot lawfully launch its generic version of Testim in the U.S. before the earlier of the expiration of the currently pending 30-month stay or a district court decision in its favor. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs related to the Upsher-Smith Litigation and may incur costs related to any other legal and regulatory actions that we may undertake. The Upsher-Smith Litigation could result in a finding that Upsher-Smith’s proposed testosterone product does not infringe the ’968 Patent or that the ‘968 Patent is invalid and/or unenforceable. An adverse outcome in the Upsher-Smith Litigation or any such legal action could result in one or more generic versions of Testim being launched in the U.S. before the expiration of the ’968 Patent in January 2025. Since Testim is currently our only marketed product, the introduction of a generic version could have a material adverse affect on our ability to successfully execute our business strategy to maximize the value of Testim as we continue to develop our product pipeline and therefore could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In Canada, there are two patents covering Testim, one that expires in January 2010 and another that expires in April 2023. The patent issued by the European Patent Office covering Testim expires in April 2023. CPEX also has submitted a patent application in Japan that is awaiting examination. All of these patents and any patents that issue from the pending applications are included in our license from CPEX. XIAFLEX, licensed from BioSpecifics is covered by two method of use patents in the U.S., one for the treatment of Dupuytren’s and one for the treatment of Peyronie’s. The Dupuytren’s patent, which was issued in December 2007 after a reissue proceeding, expires in 2014, and the Peyronie’s patent expires in 2019. The patents are limited to the use of XIAFLEX for the treatment of Dupuytren’s and Peyronie’s, respectively, with certain dose ranges and/or concentration ranges. Currently there is not enough data to establish whether any approved product for Dupuytren’s or Peyronie’s or Frozen Shoulder syndrome will be covered by these patents. In January 2005, a patent application was filed with regard to XIAFLEX for the treatment of Frozen Shoulder syndrome. If this patent is granted, it would expire in 2026. In January 2006, we filed a patent application with regard to the manufacturing process for XIAFLEX; if this patent is granted, it would expire in January 2027. Foreign patents and pending applications may also cover these products in certain countries depending upon the concentration and dosage ranges of such products. Some countries will not grant patents on patent applications that are filed after the public sale or disclosure of the material claimed in the patent application. The U.S., by contrast, allows a one year grace period after public disclosure in which to file a patent application. 49 Table of Contents The standards that the USPTO and its foreign counterparts use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change. Limitations on patent protection in some countries outside the U.S., and the differences in what constitutes patentable subject matter in these countries, may limit the protection we seek outside of the U.S. For example, methods of treating humans are not patentable subject matter in many countries outside of the U.S. In addition, laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as would laws of the U.S. In determining whether or not to seek a patent or to license any patent in a particular foreign country, we weigh the relevant costs and benefits, and consider, among other things, the market potential of our product candidates in the jurisdiction, and the scope and enforceability of patent protection afforded by the law of the jurisdiction. Failure to obtain adequate patent protection for our proprietary product candidates and technology would impair our ability to be commercially competitive in these markets. Accordingly, we do not know the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights or the breadth of claims allowed in any patents issued to us or others. We intend to seek patent protection when appropriate for any products or product candidates we acquire in the future. However, any patent applications for future products may not issue as patents, and any patent issued on such products may be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable or circumvented. Furthermore, the claims in patents which have been issued on products we may acquire in the future may not be sufficiently broad to prevent third parties from commercializing competing products. If we fail to obtain adequate patent protection for our products, our ability to compete could be impaired. Technology in-licensed by us is important to our business. We may not control the patent prosecution, maintenance or enforcement of our in-licensed technology. Accordingly, we may be unable to exercise the same degree of control over this intellectual property as we would over our internally developed intellectual property. For example, in-licensed patents for which our rights are limited to a particular field of use could be or become licensed in other fields to other licensees and, therefore, become subject to enforcement by such other licensees without our participation. Consequently, such licensed patents could be held invalid or unenforceable or could have claims construed in a manner adverse to our interests in litigation, which we would not control or to which we would not be a party. If any of the intellectual property rights of our licensors is found to be invalid, this could have a material adverse impact on our operations. If we are not able to protect and control unpatented trade secrets, know-how and other technological innovation, we may suffer competitive harm. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and technology, which are not protected by patents, to maintain our competitive position. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. To maintain the confidentiality of trade secrets and proprietary information, we generally seek to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and collaborators upon the commencement of a relationship with us. However, we may not obtain these agreements in all circumstances. Nor can we guarantee that these agreements will provide meaningful protection, that these agreements will not be breached, or that we will have an adequate remedy for any such breach. In addition, adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of this information. Others may have developed, or may develop in the future, substantially similar or superior know-how and technology. The loss or exposure of our trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information, as well as independent development of similar or superior know-how, could harm our operating results, financial condition and future growth prospects. Many of our employees and consultants were, and many of our consultants may currently be, parties to confidentiality agreements with other companies. Although our confidentiality agreements with these employees and consultants require that they do not bring to us, or use without proper authorization, any third party’s proprietary technology, if they violate their agreements, we could suffer claims or liabilities. We may have to engage in costly litigation to enforce or protect our proprietary technology or to defend challenges to our proprietary technology by our competitors, which may harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. The pharmaceutical field is characterized by a large number of patent filings involving complex legal and factual questions, and, therefore, we cannot predict with certainty whether our licensed patents will be enforceable. Competitors may have filed applications for or have been issued patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights related to products or processes that compete with or are similar to ours. We may not be aware of all of the patents potentially adverse to our interests that may have been issued to others. Litigation may be necessary to protect our proprietary rights, and we cannot be certain that we will have the required resources to pursue litigation or otherwise to protect our proprietary rights. 50 Table of Contents Competitors may infringe our patents or successfully avoid them through design innovation. To prevent infringement or unauthorized use, we may need to file infringement lawsuits, which are expensive and time-consuming. In any such proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours or one that we have licensed is not valid or is unenforceable, may narrowly interpret our patent claims or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover its technology. In particular, if a competitor were to file a paragraph IV certification under the U.S. Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, known as the Hatch-Waxman Act, in connection with that competitor’s submission to the FDA of an ANDA for approval of a generic version of any of our products for which we believed we held a valid patent, then we could initiate a lawsuit against such competitor claiming patent infringement and defending the relevant patent’s validity and enforceability. Depending on the facts and circumstances, the FDA may stay the approval of the ANDA for a generic version of any of our products for 30 months so long as we initiate litigation against the filer of the ANDA within 45 days of receiving the paragraph IV certification. If a court found that one of our patents was invalid or not infringed, then the FDA would be permitted to approve the competitor’s ANDA resulting in a competitive generic product. In the event that the FDA did not grant the 30 month stay, FDA would be permitted to approve the competitor’s ANDA; however, we could engage in legal proceedings, such as an injunction, to attempt to preclude the generic competitor from entering the market during the pendency of the patent litigation, but we may not prevail in which event the competitor could enter the market, despite the ongoing patent litigation. In October 2008, we and our licensor, CPEX, received notice that Upsher-Smith filed an ANDA containing a paragraph IV certification seeking approval from the FDA to market a generic version of Testim prior to the January 2025 expiration of ’968 Patent. The ’968 Patent, which Bentley assigned to CPEX in June 2008, covers a method for maintaining effective blood serum testosterone levels for treating a hypogonadal male using Testim and is listed in Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations (commonly known as the Orange Book), published by the FDA. The paragraph IV certification sets forth allegations that the ’968 Patent will not be infringed by Upsher-Smith’s manufacture, use or sale of the product for which the ANDA was submitted. In December 2008, we filed the Upsher-Smith Litigation, and we intend to take legal and regulatory actions in defense of Testim and the ’968 Patent, including enforcement of our intellectual property rights and approved labeling. Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, final FDA approval of Upsher-Smith’s proposed generic product will be stayed until the earlier of 30 months or resolution of the patent infringement lawsuit. Should Upsher-Smith receive an approval of its generic version of Testim from the FDA, it cannot lawfully launch its generic version of Testim in the U.S. before the earlier of the expiration of the currently pending 30-month stay or a district court decision in its favor. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs related to the Upsher-Smith Litigation and may incur costs related to any other legal and regulatory actions that we may undertake. The Upsher-Smith Litigation could result in a finding that Upsher-Smith’s proposed testosterone product does not infringe the ’968 Patent or that the ‘968 Patent is invalid and/or unenforceable. An adverse outcome in the Upsher-Smith Litigation or any such legal action could result in one or more generic versions of Testim being launched in the U.S. before the expiration of the ’968 Patent in January 2025. Since Testim is currently our only marketed product, the introduction of a generic version could have a material adverse affect on our ability to successfully execute our business strategy to maximize the value of Testim as we continue to develop our product pipeline and therefore could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to market our products may be impaired by the intellectual property rights of third parties. Our commercial success will depend in part on not infringing the patents or proprietary rights of third parties. We are aware of competing intellectual property relating to the TRT gel market. While we currently believe we have freedom to operate in the TRT gel market, others may challenge our position in the future. We are also aware of third-party patents relating to PharmaForm’s transmucosal film delivery system that may impair PharmaForm’s freedom to operate in the manufacture of product candidates using a transmucosal film delivery system. There has been, and we believe that there will continue to be, significant litigation in the pharmaceutical industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Third parties could bring legal actions against us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing of the affected product or products. A third party might request a court to rule that the patents we in-license are invalid or unenforceable. In such a case, even if the validity or enforceability of those 51 Table of Contents patents were upheld, a court might hold that the third party’s actions do not infringe the patent we in-license thereby, in effect, limiting the scope of our patent rights. If we become involved in any litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our resources, regardless of the outcome of the litigation. If any of these actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license to continue to manufacture or market the affected product, in which case we may be required to pay substantial royalties or grant cross-licenses to our patents. However, there can be no assurance that any such license will be available on acceptable terms or at all. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or forced to cease some aspect of our business operations, as a result of patent infringement claims, which could harm our business. We may not be able to obtain or maintain orphan drug exclusivity for our product candidates, and our competitors may obtain orphan drug exclusivity prior to us, which could significantly harm our business. Some jurisdictions, including Europe and the U.S., may designate drugs for relatively small patient populations as orphan drugs. The FDA granted orphan drug status to XIAFLEX in the U.S. for the treatment of Dupuytren’s and Peyronie’s. Orphan drug designation must be requested before submitting an application for marketing authorization. Orphan drug designation may not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process, but does make the product eligible for orphan drug exclusivity and specific tax credits in the U.S. Generally, if a product with an orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first marketing approval for the indication for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan drug exclusivity. Orphan drug exclusivity means that another application to market the same drug for the same indication may not be approved, except in limited circumstances, for a period of up to 10 years in Europe and for a period of seven years in the U.S. Obtaining orphan drug designations and orphan drug exclusivity for our product candidates, including XIAFLEX for the treatment of Dupuytren’s and Peyronie’s, may be critical to the success of these product candidates. Our competitors may obtain orphan drug exclusivity for products competitive with our product candidates before we do, in which case we would be excluded from that market. Even if we obtain orphan drug exclusivity for any of our product candidates, we may not be able to maintain it. For example, if a competitive product is shown to be clinically superior to our product, any orphan drug exclusivity we have obtained will not block the approval of such competitive product. In addition, even if we obtain orphan drug exclusivity for any of our product candidates, a viable commercial market may never develop and we may never derive any meaningful revenues from the sales of these products. If Testim or our future products or product candidates infringe the intellectual property of our competitors or other third parties, we may be required to pay license fees or cease these activities and pay damages, which could significantly harm our business. Even though Testim and our product candidates may be covered by patents, they may nonetheless infringe the patents or violate the proprietary rights of third parties. In these cases, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights of others in order to continue to sell and use Testim and develop and commercialize our product candidates. We may not, however, be able to obtain any licenses required under any patents or proprietary rights of third parties on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we were able to obtain rights to a third party’s intellectual property, these rights may be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors potential access to the same intellectual property. Third parties may assert patent or other intellectual property infringement claims against us, or our licensors or collaborators, with respect to technologies used in potential product candidates. Any claims that might be brought against us relating to infringement of patents may cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, may cause us to pay substantial damages. We may not have sufficient resources to effectively litigate these claims. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from business operations. In addition, any patent claims brought against our licensors or collaborators could affect their ability to carry out their obligations to us. Furthermore, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us, or our licensors or collaborators, the development, manufacture or potential sale of product candidates claimed to infringe a third party’s intellectual property may have to cease or be delayed. Ultimately, we may be unable to commercialize one or more of our product candidates, our patent claims may be substantially limited or may have to cease some portion of our operations as a result of patent infringement claims, which could severely harm our business. 52 Table of Contents Trade secrets may not provide adequate protection for our business and technology. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our or our potential collaborators’ employees, consultants, contractors or scientific and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. If we were to enforce a claim that a third party had illegally obtained and was using our trade secrets, our enforcement efforts would be expensive and time consuming, and the outcome would be unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the U.S. are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, if our competitors independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods or know-how, it will be more difficult or impossible for us to enforce our rights and our business could be harmed. Risks Related to Employees and Growth If we are not able to retain our current management team or attract and retain qualified scientific, technical and business personnel, our business will suffer. We are dependent on the members of our management team for our business success. In addition, an important element of our strategy is to leverage the development, regulatory and commercialization expertise of our current management in our development activities. Our employment agreements with our executive officers are terminable on short notice. The loss of key employees may result in a significant loss in the knowledge and experience that we, as an organization, possess and could cause significant delays, or outright failure, in the further commercialization of Testim or the development and commercialization of our product candidates, including XIAFLEX, if approved. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified and talented senior management personnel, our business may suffer. To grow we will need to hire a significant number of qualified personnel on a timely basis. However, there is intense competition for human resources, including management in the technical fields in which we operate, and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the successful commercialization of Testim and the development and commercialization of our product candidates, including XIAFLEX, if approved. As we grow, the inability to attract new employees when needed or to retain existing employees could severely limit our growth and harm our business. Our operations may be impaired unless we can successfully manage our growth. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately 340 employees. In order to continue to achieve our business goals, we currently anticipate that we will need to add employees to our existing departments over each of the next two years. Expansion may place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. Moreover, higher than expected market growth of Testim, the commercialization of XIALFEX, if approved, the acquisition or in-licensing of additional products, as well as the development and commercialization of our other product candidates or marketing arrangements with third parties, could accelerate our hiring needs beyond our current expectations. To manage further growth, we will be required to continue to improve existing, and implement additional, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, and hire, train and manage additional employees. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our anticipated growth and we may not be able to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel. Our failure to manage growth effectively could limit our ability to achieve our business goals. In addition, our direct sales force consists of relatively newly hired employees. Turnover in our direct sales force or marketing team could adversely affect Testim and future product sales growth. Risks Related to Compliance Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. We are a relatively small company and we rely heavily on third parties to conduct many important functions. As a biopharmaceutical company, we are subject to a large body of legal and regulatory requirements. In addition, as a publicly traded company we are subject to significant regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOA”), some of which have either only recently been adopted or are currently proposals subject to change. We cannot assure you that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply with all potentially applicable laws and regulations could lead to the imposition of fines, cause the value of our common stock to decline, impede our ability to raise capital or lead to the de-listing of our stock. Our controls over external financial reporting may fail or be circumvented. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies. In addition, we are required under the SOA to report annually on our internal control over financial reporting. If we, or our independent registered public accounting firm, determine that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, this shortcoming could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results and the price of our common stock could be negatively affected. This reporting requirement could also make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. Any system of internal controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulation concerning control and procedures could have a material effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees and as executive officers. Risks Related to Stock Market Price The market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile. Prior to our initial public offering in July 2004, there was no public market for our common stock. Since our initial public offering, our stock price has, at times, been volatile. We cannot assure you that an active trading market for our common stock will exist at any time. Holders of our common stock may not be able to sell shares quickly or at the market price if trading in our common stock is not active. Substantially all of our outstanding shares of our common stock are eligible for sale in the public market. For the 30 days prior to the end of the period covered by this Report, our average daily trading volume was approximately 699,000 shares. Sales of a substantial 53 Table of Contents number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception in the market that holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities, even if our business is doing well. In addition, the market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • our failure to achieve our operational and research and development goals; • changes to the regulatory approval process for product candidates in those jurisdictions, including the U.S., in which we may be seeking approval for our product candidates; • Testim market acceptance and sales growth; • growth of the overall androgen market, which may be influenced by the sales and marketing efforts of our competitors; • entry into the marketplace of competitive products including generics; • developments concerning therapies that compete with Testim in the treatment of hypogonadism; • our ability to manufacture any products to commercial standards; • results of our clinical trials; • the regulatory status of our product candidates; • failure of any of our product candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; • regulatory developments in the U.S. and foreign countries; • developments or disputes concerning our patents or other proprietary rights; • public concern over our drugs; • litigation involving us, our general industry or both; • future sales of our common stock; • changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems, including developments in price control legislation; • departure of key personnel; • the degree to which any co-promotion, licensing or distribution arrangements generate revenue; • period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; • announcements of material events by those companies that are our third-party manufacturers and services providers, our partners, our competitors or perceived to be similar to us; • changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; • investors’ general perception of us; and • general economic, industry and market conditions. Furthermore, market prices for securities of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and specialty biopharmaceutical companies have been particularly volatile in recent years. The broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. If any of these risks occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to class action lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. Possible dilutive effect of outstanding options and warrants. At the end of the period covered by this Report, stock options to purchase 4,425,624 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase 1,124,768 shares of common stock were outstanding. In addition, as of December 31, 2008, a total of 1,241,772 stock options are available for grant under our 2004 Equity Compensation Plan amended and restated as of June 13, 2007. A total of 2,542,799 of the outstanding options and warrants are “in the money” and exercisable as of December 31, 2008. “In the money” means that the current market price of the common stock is above the exercise price of the shares subject to the warrant or option. The issuance of common stock upon the exercise of these options and warrants could adversely affect the market price of the common stock or result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. 54 Table of Contents Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware law may prevent or frustrate a change in control in management that stockholders believe is desirable. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: • limitations on the removal of directors; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; • the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; and • the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a rights plan that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our board of directors. The affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote is necessary to amend or repeal the above provisions of our certificate of incorporation. In addition, absent approval of our board of directors, our bylaws may only be amended or repealed by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote. In addition, Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns or within the last three years has owned 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, Section 203 may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company received comments on its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 from the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, in a letter dated November 24, 2008. The Company timely submitted a response to the SEC on December 10, 2008. The SEC provided its response in a letter dated January 28, 2009, and the Company submitted a response on February 20, 2009. The SEC has requested that the Company expand its disclosure of base salaries and short-term incentive awards to identify each named executive officer’s functional objectives and to describe generally whether each of the named executive officers’ predetermined objectives was met. 