Risk Factors Our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer material adverse effects due to any of the following risks. Additional risks not known to us or that we now consider immaterial also may adversely affect our business. Risks Related to each of our Businesses Because the industries in which we operate are characterized by constant innovation and technological change, our success depends upon our continued ability to develop and market innovative products on a cost-effective basis. If we fail to do so, we may be unable to capture additional market share or may lose market share. We operate in the pharmaceuticals and the specialty chemicals industries, both of which are highly competitive and are characterized by intensive research and development efforts and rapid technological change. Our success is highly dependent on our ability to discover, develop and manufacture new and innovative products on a cost-effective basis and to market them successfully. In doing so, we face and will continue to face intense competition from a variety of competitors, ranging from small niche companies to large national and international conglomerates. Based on total assets and annual revenues, we are significantly smaller than many of our competitors, which often have substantially greater financial, R&D and sales and marketing resources than we do. In addition, we may have fewer drug candidates in our pipeline than our larger competitors. As a result, our competitors may succeed in developing and manufacturing products that are superior to our own products or that the market perceives to be more attractive. If this happens, our products may become uncompetitive and we may be unable to capture additional market share or may lose market share. In light of the ongoing consolidation of the industries in which we operate, we expect that the competitive pressures to which we are subject will increase in the future. - 9 - Table of Contents We operate in many different countries around the world. As a result, fluctuations in the exchange rates between the euro and other currencies could adversely affect our results of operations and reduce our ability to price our products competitively. Due to the international scope of our operations, our net sales and net income may be affected by fluctuations in exchange rates, particularly between the euro and the U.S. dollar. An increasing portion of our sales is made in markets outside the euro zone by our local subsidiaries or through distribution arrangements. As a result, fluctuations between the euro and the currencies in these markets may cause our reported revenues to vary significantly from period to period. For example, the devaluation of the U.S. dollar against the euro that in 2003 and 2004 had a negative impact on our net sales, especially our reported sales of Pantoprazole, which is currently our most important product, in the United States. Although the effect of this devaluation was in part offset by the appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the euro in the course of 2005, there can be no assurance that the U.S. dollar will not depreciate further in the future. At the same time, a substantial proportion of our operating costs continues to be linked to the euro. Accordingly, exchange rate fluctuations have affected our profitability, and they may continue to do so in the future. You should note that in the past each of our subsidiaries was responsible for managing its own foreign exchange rate exposure. In 2003, we introduced a uniform hedging strategy for our main currency exposures, especially our exposure to the U.S. dollar and currencies linked to the U.S. dollar, by expanding the time frame for our hedging transactions and the range of instruments that we use in structuring them. We believe that this revised strategy has assisted us in better forecasting our operating results and in limiting our exposure to volatile exchange rates. Nevertheless, fluctuations in the exchange rates between the euro and other currencies, particularly the U.S. dollar, may continue to influence our revenues and profitability. In addition to influencing our reported net sales and net income, exchange rate fluctuations may also impact our competitive position in countries whose currencies fluctuate against the euro. In 2004, the strengthening of the euro relative to the U.S. dollar benefited our U.S.-based competitors, including in respect of their activities in the euro zone, and reduced our own pricing flexibility, which adversely affected the reported revenues and profitability of each of our segments. While the euro weakened relative to the U.S. dollar in 2005, it remained relatively strong, and any further strengthening would reinforce this adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. Because we depend on key management, scientific and technical personnel, our ability to compete would suffer if we were unable to hire and retain qualified employees. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key management, scientific and technical personnel, many of whom have substantial experience with our company and would be difficult to replace. Competition for qualified personnel is intense in the industries in which we operate, and we may be unable to attract the highly qualified employees that our business requires. If we lose the services of our key management or scientific and technical personnel or do not succeed in attracting highly qualified personnel in the future, our business may be hurt by a reduced ability to compete in the rapidly evolving markets in which we operate. Our business will suffer if we are unable to obtain and defend intellectual property rights or if we do not gain access to, or are accused of infringing, the intellectual property rights of others. Our ability to remain competitive and to capture additional market share, particularly with respect to our pharmaceuticals segment, depends in part on our ability to obtain and defend patents, trademarks and other forms of intellectual property protection for our products, and on our development and manufacturing processes and our know-how. While we intend to prosecute patents vigorously, the process of obtaining patents is lengthy and expensive. There can be no assurance that patents will be granted in connection with any of our currently pending or future applications or that such patents will be valid and of sufficient scope and strength to provide us with meaningful legal protection or any commercial advantage. In 2004, generic drug companies filed Abbreviated New Drug Applications (“ANDAs”) with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) in the United States challenging our Pantoprazole substance patent with a view to - 10 - Table of Contents manufacturing and distributing generic versions of Pantoprazole. In response to one of these challenges, we filed a patent infringement suit in May 2004 in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey. Several companies have also filed ANDAs challenging our Pantoprazole oral formulation patent. Because Pantoprazole enjoys protection in the United States under our substance patent until 2010 (and our oral formulation patent is therefore irrelevant for the time being), we have decided not to take any immediate action with regard to these ANDAs. However, in 2005, one of the challengers of our Pantoprazole oral formulation patent, amended its ANDA to include a paragraph IV certification relating to our Pantoprazole substance patent and in addition filed an ANDA regarding our Pantoprazole intravenous (“IV”) formulation patent. As a result, we filed complaints in the U.S. Federal District Court for the District of New Jersey. In these complaints, we claim that this competitor is infringing our substance patent, but consistent with our approach to the other attacks on our oral formulation patents, do not claim that our IV formulation patent has been infringed. While we believe that our U.S. patents relating to Pantoprazole are valid and enforceable and of sufficient scope and strength to prevent the entities that have made the filings and any other third party from manufacturing and distributing Pantoprazole-based generics at this time, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in defending our patents. For more information, see “Item 4: Information on the Company — Pharmaceuticals — Intellectual Property” and “Item 4: Information on the Company — Legal Proceedings”. In addition, intellectual property protection may be unavailable or limited in some of the countries in which we do business. Furthermore, a substantial portion of our know-how is not eligible for patent or comparable forms of intellectual property protection. To protect this type of information against access by competitors, we rely on trade secret law and frequently enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers and partners. These agreements may be unenforceable, however, and the remedies available to us for breaches may be inadequate. Likewise, our competitors may gain access to our know-how by lawful means, for example, by reverse engineering or by independently developing the same know-how, which would destroy any advantage that our know-how may afford us. Our competitive position may also suffer if competitors come up with products, development or manufacturing processes or know-how that is protected by patents, trademarks, licenses or other forms of intellectual property protection. Technologies over which our competitors hold intellectual property rights may either be unavailable to us or be available to us only on unfavorable terms. To gain access to such technologies, we sometimes enter into licensing arrangements with third parties. If our licensing partners were to terminate the licenses that we have obtained from them or if we are unable to obtain licenses on commercially favorable terms in the future, our ability to develop, manufacture and market our present and future products may be impaired. While we seek to protect our trademarks, which include the names of many of our key products, by filing for trademark protection in most of the countries where we sell these products, you should note that trademark protection consists primarily of a right to sue against infringing uses of a mark and, in order to be effective, requires extensive policing. If we fail to detect instances of infringement or if we do not succeed in defending our trademarks in court, our reputation with our customers and our ability to protect our trademarks in the future may be harmed. It may become necessary for us to seek to enforce our patents, trademarks, licenses and other forms of intellectual property protection and to protect our trade secrets by taking legal action or to engage in litigation in order to defend ourselves against claims of alleged infringement of someone else’s intellectual property brought against us by third parties. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully settle or otherwise resolve claims that may be brought against us by third parties in the future. If we are unable to successfully settle future claims on terms acceptable to us, we may be required to engage in costly and time-consuming litigation and may be prevented from, or experience substantial delays in, marketing our existing pharmaceuticals and launching new ones. Any of these events could require us to divert substantial financial and management resources that we would otherwise be able to devote to our business. - 11 - Table of Contents Because our operations are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, we could become exposed to liability and be required to spend substantial amounts in connection with environmental compliance or remediation proceedings. Our operations are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the use and handling of hazardous substances, waste disposal and the investigation and remediation of soil and groundwater contamination. As with other companies engaged in activities similar to ours, we face a risk of environmental liability inherent in our current and historical manufacturing activities. While we do not believe that any currently anticipated environmental compliance and remediation requirements are likely to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, we may be forced to incur substantial expenses in connection with future environmental compliance or remediation proceedings, in which case our results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. We may be faced with product liability claims, which could impair our reputation in the marketplace and hurt our profitability. Although we maintain a comprehensive quality assurance program, there remains a risk that defects may occur in any of our products. The occurrence of such defects could give rise to liability for damages, including consequential and punitive damages, and could, by impairing our reputation, reduce the market’s acceptance of our products. This risk exists in each of our segments. To reduce our exposure to the aforementioned risks, we maintain an insurance policy covering product liability claims. There can be no assurance, however, that our insurance policy will be adequate and sufficient to cover all product liability claims that may be brought against us or that we will be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage on commercially reasonable terms in the future. A successful product liability claim in excess of our coverage could require us to pay substantial amounts in damages. In addition, our insurance policy does not protect us against reputational harm that we may suffer if the market perceives our products as unsafe or ineffective. Our business may suffer as a result of volatility in different parts of the world. We operate on a global basis. Our business is therefore subject to a variety of risks inherent in conducting international operations, each of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. These risks include: • Wars, terrorist attacks and other hostilities; • Instability of foreign governments; • Changes in domestic or foreign laws or policies affecting international trade and foreign investment; and • Varying practices of the regulatory, tax, judicial and administrative bodies in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Risks Related to our Pharmaceuticals Business Because we depend on the sale of a limited number of key products to generate a substantial portion of our revenues, factors adversely affecting the sale of these products could materially harm our revenues and results of operations. Like other companies in the pharmaceuticals industry, our pharmaceuticals division depends on sales of certain key products that account for a substantial portion of its revenues. For example, in 2005, our net sales of Pantoprazole, a proton pump inhibitor (“PPI”) that we offer for the treatment of ulcers and reflux disease, accounted for 57.6% of the net sales of our pharmaceuticals division, or 41.6% of our overall revenues. Pantoprazole has been a key revenue driver of our pharmaceuticals division for several years, and we expect that it will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenues in future periods. Despite the launch - 12 - Table of Contents of Ciclesonide under the brand name Alvesco® in 2005, we expect to continue to depend on a limited number of key products for the foreseeable future, particularly following the termination of our collaboration with Pfizer, Inc. (“Pfizer”) and the withdrawal of our European Marketing Authorization Application (“MAA”) for Roflumilast, a drug we are continuing to develop and intend to market under the brand name Daxas®. As a result of our dependence on key products, particularly Pantoprazole, factors adversely affecting the sale of any of these products could materially adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. These factors include: • Competition from other branded pharmaceuticals that may be equivalent or superior to our own products or that the market perceives to be more attractive; • Competition from generic versions of branded pharmaceuticals, irrespective of the way they are marketed, once the term of patent protection for the original branded pharmaceuticals has expired; • Technological advances; • The marketing strategies of our competitors; • Supply chain interruptions; • Work stoppages; • Changes in prescription practices; • Changes in the reimbursement policies of third-party payers; and • Product liability claims. Pantoprazole in particular faces competition from various other branded PPIs. Most notably, these competitors include AstraZeneca’s Esomeprazole and Takeda’s Lansoprazole. If our competitors continue to invest heavily in marketing these products, the ability of Pantoprazole to capture market share or maintain its current market share could be adversely affected. In addition, Pantoprazole and other branded PPIs face competition from generic PPIs, in particular generic PPIs based on a substance called Omeprazole. A variety of companies are marketing Omeprazole-based generics in Europe and the United States at prices that tend to be significantly lower than the price of Pantoprazole and other branded PPIs. Further competition may result from the launch of generic PPIs based on substances other than Omeprazole once the relevant patents have expired. Pantoprazole also competes with over-the-counter (“OTC”) PPIs. Unlike Pantoprazole, these PPIs are available to patients without a prescription. Various Omeprazole-based OTC PPIs have been launched in the United States and several European countries and are being marketed with increasing success. While generic and OTC PPIs have so far had a limited impact on the market for branded PPIs, including Pantoprazole, in Europe, we are experiencing stronger pricing pressure in the U.S. market with respect to Pantoprazole. From Pantoprazole’s introduction in 2000 until the fall of 2004, the drug’s market share in the United States grew, with temporary interruptions. However, in 2005 as a result of factors including those described above, Pantoprazole’s share of PPI prescriptions stabilized. Given the increasing competition from generic and OTC PPIs, there can be no assurance that Pantoprazole’s market share, prescription rates and net sales contribution will remain at their current levels in future periods. Following the expiration of our Pantoprazole substance patent in most European countries, as extended by supplementary protection certificates, and the United States in 2009 and 2010, respectively, we expect our Pantoprazole sales to decrease substantially. We depend on Wyeth, Inc. (“Wyeth”) for the marketing and distribution of Pantoprazole in the United States. If Wyeth were to devote insufficient resources to the marketing of Pantoprazole or if we were to lose Wyeth as a partner, our sales of Pantoprazole would be adversely affected. Until June 2003, we marketed Pantoprazole in the United States exclusively through Wyeth Pharmaceuticals, the pharmaceuticals division of Wyeth. Since July 2003, our own dedicated sales force for - 13 - Table of Contents the U.S. market has been co-promoting Pantoprazole alongside Wyeth. While this arrangement has afforded us greater influence with respect to the marketing of Pantoprazole in the United States, the revenues that we derive from this drug in the U.S. market continue to materially depend on the resources that Wyeth devotes to the marketing of this therapeutic. While our distribution arrangement with Wyeth requires Wyeth to use commercially reasonable efforts to sell Pantoprazole, there can be no assurance that Wyeth’s marketing efforts will continue to be successful. In addition, Wyeth is entitled to terminate its distribution agreement with us under certain circumstances, including when a third party commences legal action against Wyeth alleging patent infringement, as well as without cause upon one year’s prior written notice. If Wyeth terminates the contract for reasons other than because we become insolvent or commit a material breach of the agreement, it is required to transfer all of its rights pertaining to Pantoprazole and to products based on this substance, including any regulatory approvals that it has obtained, to us. See “Item 10: Additional Information — Material Contracts” for a summary of the terms of our agreement with Wyeth. If we were to lose Wyeth as a distribution partner, we would be forced to find a suitable replacement. If we experience delays in finding such a replacement, our ability to sell Pantoprazole in the United States, which accounts for a substantial portion of our Pantoprazole sales worldwide, would suffer, and, accordingly, our results of operations would be adversely affected. Due to the inherent unpredictability of the process underlying the development of new pharmaceuticals, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully and timely launch new drugs and other pharmaceutical products. A critical element of our future success is the successful and timely commercial launch of new products. To this end, we devote substantial resources to research and development and have a number of promising candidates for new therapeutics in our pipeline, including a potential next-generation drug for indications similar to those of Pantoprazole and several candidates for the treatment of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases (“COPD”). Because of the complexities and uncertainties associated with pharmaceutical research, however, we cannot be certain that any of these drug candidates will survive the development process and ultimately obtain the regulatory approvals needed in order to be launched commercially. Even if the initial results of the development of a drug candidate are positive, adverse or otherwise unsatisfactory results remain possible at any time. For example, in the case of Roflumilast we decided in 2005 to withdraw our MAA after consulting with the European Medicines Agency (“EMEA”) because the clinical record we had established at the time was less compelling than we had expected. We may be unable to continue our expansion into the U.S. market, or our expansion may be delayed, each of which would limit our growth opportunities. A key element of the growth strategy of our pharmaceuticals division is our plan to expand into the United States. The United States is the biggest pharmaceuticals market in the world and offers the greatest growth opportunities for our business. We plan to continue our expansion into the U.S. market with the assistance of experienced co-promotion partners and by exploiting the launch of Ciclesonide, which is aimed at the treatment of respiratory indications, to gradually expand our own sales and marketing organization for innovative therapeutics in the United States. This sales and marketing organization operates separately from our existing U.S. operations for facial topics and certain other types of pharmaceuticals. While we made progress in this area in 2005, if Ciclesonide fails to make it to the U.S. market or to generate sufficient demand in the United States, or if we were to lose our co-promotion partner for this drug and were unable to find a suitable replacement or experience delays in finding a replacement, we may be unable to continue our expansion in the U.S. market or may experience delays in doing so. For example, in 2002, we entered into an agreement with Pharmacia Corporation, which subsequently was acquired by Pfizer, to co-develop and market Roflumilast in the United States, which would have enabled us to further expand our U.S. sales and marketing organization. However, we mutually agreed in 2005 to terminate this agreement and, accordingly, will not be able to collaborate with Pfizer in establishing a sales and marketing organization in regard to this product. If we do not succeed in securing a strategic position in this or other international markets, the growth of our business may be adversely affected. In addition, we may be unable to recover investments that we have already made in these markets. - 14 - Table of Contents Because our business is subject to extensive governmental regulation, including price controls, our ability to market our products is subject to administrative constraints over which we have only limited influence. The development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceuticals are subject to extensive governmental regulation. Regulatory approval is required in each jurisdiction in which we operate before any dosage form of any new pharmaceutical, including an off-patent equivalent of a previously approved pharmaceutical, may be marketed in that jurisdiction. The process for obtaining governmental approval to market pharmaceuticals is rigorous, time-consuming and costly, and it is impossible to predict the extent to which this process may be affected by legislative and regulatory developments. We currently have several projects in various stages of the approval process in the United States, the European Union and Japan. If we fail to obtain, or experience delays in obtaining, regulatory clearance to market new pharmaceuticals or existing pharmaceuticals for new indications or if we experience any other regulatory impediments, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Even after a pharmaceutical has been approved, it may be subject to regulatory action based on newly discovered facts concerning its safety or efficacy. Any such regulatory action may adversely affect the marketing of our pharmaceutical products, require changes to their labeling or even force us to withdraw them from the market altogether. In addition to the need for obtaining regulatory approval to market new products, we are subject to price controls imposed by local governments and health care providers and in some markets need to obtain special approval before patients are entitled to be reimbursed for purchasing our products. The existence of price controls can limit the revenues that we earn from our products and thus could also have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The way in which price controls operate varies by country and can cause substantial disparities in the price levels prevailing in different markets. Many governments and private medical care providers, such as Health Maintenance Organizations (“HMOs”) and social security organizations, have introduced or are currently in the process of introducing reimbursement schemes that favor the replacement of branded pharmaceuticals by cheaper generic pharmaceuticals. Since January 1, 2003, the pharmaceuticals industry in Germany has been required to grant the German public health care insurance companies (which are the main purchasers of drugs in the German health care market) fixed mandatory rebates (Kassenrabatte) for most ethical therapeutics. These rebates, which were increased from 6% in 2003 to 16% in 2004 before again being decreased to 6% in 2005, have, especially in 2004, negatively influenced our pharmaceuticals sales in Germany when compared to a regulatory environment without such mandatory rebates. At present, it is unclear to what extent proposed new legislation, which is aimed at a two-year price moratorium for all drugs paid for by the statutory health care insurance scheme (gesetzliche Krankenversicherung), will impact our sales in Germany in the future. In addition, in 2004, new legislation took effect which provides for the possibility to include patent-protected drugs in the system of statutory fixed reference prices certain classes of active ingredients. Drugs included in the statutory fixed reference price system are not subject to the fixed mandatory rebates. On January 1, 2005, Pantoprazole was included in the statutory fixed reference price system. The association of the German health care insurance providers has included Pantoprazole in a reference price group along with other branded PPIs and cheaper Omeprazole-based generics. In our view, this classification ignores the substantial therapeutic advantages offered by Pantoprazole compared with Omeprazole (for example, the fact that Pantoprazole has less clinically relevant potential for metabolic interaction with other drugs). While we have lowered our prices for Pantoprazole in Germany to match the statutory fixed reference price for this drug so that German patients insured under the statutory health care insurance scheme (gesetzliche Krankenversicherung) and wishing to purchase Pantoprazole do not have to pay more than the amount covered by their respective health insurance policies, we have also filed suit against the association’s decision before the Social Court in Berlin, Germany. However, there can be no assurance that we will prevail in this lawsuit. As a result of these developments, we anticipate that German regulations will continue to have a negative impact on our business in Germany. We are also subject to further price regulations in various other countries, particularly in Europe. In the United States, generic substitution statutes, which aim to promote the substitution of original ethical drugs by less expensive generic drugs, have been adopted in virtually all states. In addition, the reform of the Medicare system, which was put in place at the end of 2003, has introduced pharmaceutical coverage for eligible beneficiaries. While demand for pharmaceuticals in the U.S. market - 15 - Table of Contents could therefore increase significantly, the U.S. government could use its purchasing power to demand discounts from pharmaceuticals companies, thereby creating de facto price controls on prescription drugs. As a result, we expect that we will continue to experience pricing pressures, which could adversely affect our revenues and operating results. As part of our plans to expand our pharmaceuticals business, we expect to make substantial investments in therapeutic areas in which we have limited experience, such as oncology. If we are unable to develop new drugs in these areas, we may be unable to recoup our investments. Our medium- to long-term goal is to expand our pharmaceuticals business by entering markets in which we are currently not active. One such market that we may enter is the oncology market, which we expect will grow substantially in the future. We have commenced basic oncological research and entered into R&D collaborations with third parties, and we intend to make further investments related to oncology over the next several years. In addition, we may decide to enter other therapeutics markets, which may require us to make similar investments. Investments of this sort frequently involve significant cash expenditures, for example in connection with hiring qualified scientists, conducting R&D projects and making desirable acquisitions. In addition, you should note that we have limited experience with respect to therapeutics that we do not currently offer. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing, manufacturing and marketing therapeutics for new markets or integrating them with our existing portfolio at all or within a time frame that will enable us to recoup our initial investments. Any of these risks may ultimately have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our R&D strategy involves creating and maintaining alliances and other collaborative arrangements with third parties, and any inability to find or retain suitable collaborators may adversely affect our ability to develop new pharmaceuticals. Our continued success will in part depend on our ability to establish new and to maintain existing collaborations, alliances and licensing arrangements with third parties, especially with biotech companies. Collaborations with companies and other entities that have expertise in biotechnology and genetic research are of particular importance to our plans to supplement the existing franchises of our pharmaceuticals business with therapeutics for oncological indications. We may not be able, however, to establish and maintain such collaborations on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. For example, in 2005, we mutually agreed with Pfizer to terminate our collaboration agreement with regard to Roflumilast. Moreover, in view of the ongoing consolidation of the biotech industry, we may experience greater difficulty finding suitable partners in the future, as a number of smaller companies, which would be candidates for collaborations, become part of larger conglomerates that compete with us and that may be unwilling to grant us access to attractive technologies on commercially favorable terms or at all. In addition, we have no control over the amount and timing of resources that our partners devote to our programs. If we are unable to form or maintain alliances or our partners fail to assist us with our R&D efforts, our business may be harmed and our results of operations may be adversely affected. Risks Related to our Chemicals Business Demand for our products could suffer as result of periodic downturns. Because the specialty chemicals that we offer are used in a wide variety of downstream industries served directly or indirectly by us, including the automotive, construction, electrical appliances and packaging industries, our results are affected by the business cycles experienced by these industries. While we seek to reduce our exposure to these cycles by focusing on complementary geographic and product markets, there is no assurance that we will be successful in insulating our chemicals business from downturns experienced by the industries that it serves. In addition, we are not immune to negative economic developments affecting more than one of these industries. Economic downturns can lead to overcapacity, oversupply, price pressure, reduced growth and lower margins, each of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. - 16 - Table of Contents Our results may suffer if we are unable to offset increases in raw material prices or pass them on to our customers. Raw material costs account for a significant portion of the cost of sales of our chemicals business. The prices and availability of the raw materials that we use in our chemicals business vary with market conditions and can be highly volatile. If we are unable to compensate for increasing raw material prices by achieving cost savings in other areas or to pass such increases on to our customers, or if the prices for our products decrease faster than raw material prices, our profitability may be hurt. Our ability to pass on raw material price increases depends on a variety of factors, including the degree to which we are able to distinguish our products from those of our competitors. In 2005, we continued to experience high raw material prices, especially for oil and oil-related products. We continue to attempt to protect ourselves against these developments by streamlining our production processes, centralizing our procurement efforts and substituting more expensive raw materials for cheaper ones. Nevertheless, we have historically not always been successful in offsetting the impact of rising raw material prices, and there can be no assurance that we will be in the future. Even if we manage to pass on increases in raw material costs to our customers further increases in raw material prices may have an overcompensating effect. Therefore, you should be aware that any movements in the level of the raw material prices that we use in our chemicals business may have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our growth depends in part on our ability to acquire and successfully integrate companies into our existing organization. A key element of the growth strategy of our chemicals division is to supplement our internal growth with strategic acquisitions of businesses and technologies that we consider capable of complementing or enhancing our existing products or of providing us with access to new markets. As a result, if we are unable to identify suitable acquisition targets, our growth prospects may suffer. In addition, in pursuing acquisitions, we may face competition from other companies operating in the specialty chemicals and related industries. Our ability to make acquisitions may be limited also by applicable antitrust, anti-takeover and other regulations in the United States, the European Union and any of the other jurisdictions in which we do business. If any of these risks materializes, we may be unable to make desirable acquisitions or to complete them on terms attractive to us. If that occurs, our ability to grow in certain of our business areas may be adversely affected. To the extent that we are successful in making acquisitions, we may have to expend substantial amounts of cash, incur debt, assume loss-making divisions and incur other types of expenses. We may also face challenges in successfully integrating acquired companies into our existing organization. For example, in 2005, we acquired ECKART GmbH & Co. KG (the “ECKART Group”). The acquisition of the ECKART Group was significantly larger than the acquisitions we had made previously, and accordingly we may not be as successful in integrating this business as we have been in similar situations in the past. Each of these risks may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Investments in our Company Because we and our directors and officers are located in Germany, it may be difficult for you to sue these persons in the United States or to enforce judgments by U.S. courts against them. We are a corporation organized under the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany, and certain of our directors and executive officers are residents of Germany. In addition, a substantial portion of the assets owned by us and the aforesaid individuals is located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to effect service of process upon us or any of the aforesaid persons within the United States with respect to matters arising under the U.S. federal securities laws or to enforce against us or any of such persons judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. We have been advised by counsel that it is doubtful as to whether original actions of liabilities predicated on the U.S. federal securities laws may be enforced in Germany and that in Germany both recognition and enforcement of court judgments with respect to the civil liability provisions of the - 17 - Table of Contents U.S. federal securities laws are solely governed by the provisions of the German Civil Procedure Code (Zivilprozessordnung or ZPO). In some cases, especially when the relevant statutory provisions of German law do not recognize the international jurisdiction of a U.S. court or the judgment conflicts with certain basic principles of German law (for example, the prohibition of punitive damages and limited pre-trial discovery), a U.S. judgment might not be recognized by a German court. Service of process in U.S. proceedings on persons in Germany, however, is regulated by a multilateral treaty guaranteeing service of writs and other legal documents in civil cases if the current address of the defendant is known. - 18 - Table of Contents 