ITEM 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information included in this Report, the following factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. Any of the following risks, either alone or taken together, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations. If one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, our actual results may vary materially from what we projected. There may be additional risks that we do not presently know or that we currently believe are immaterial which could also impair our business or financial position. Risks Related to Our Acquisition of Actient We may fail to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits and synergies of our acquisition of Actient, which may adversely affect any of our revenues, expenses, operating results or the value of our common stock. Our ability to successfully integrate Actient's operations into ours will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from our acquisition of Actient. To realize these anticipated benefits, which include expected revenue and profit growth, and cost savings, we must successfully combine our respective operations, technologies and personnel. If we are not able to achieve these objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the acquisition may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, and the value of our common stock may be adversely affected. In addition, the integration of Actient's business will be a complex, time-consuming and expensive process. Proper planning and effective and timely implementation will be critical to avoid any significant disruption to our operations. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of our ongoing business or identify inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, distributors, creditors, lessors, clinical trial investigators or managers or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Delays encountered in the integration process could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, expenses, operating results and financial condition, including the value of our common stock. Specifically, risks in integrating Actient into our operations in order to realize the anticipated benefits and synergy savings of the acquisition include, among other factors, our inability to effectively: •coordinate standards, compliance programs, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures; •integrate and harmonize financial reporting and information technology systems of the two companies; •coordinate research and drug candidate development efforts to effectuate our product capabilities; •coordinate research and development activities to enhance the introduction of new drug and medical device development methodologies and drug discovery platforms to be pursued in connection with the acquisition; •compete against companies already serving the broader market opportunities expected to be available to us and our expanded product offerings; •manage our lack of experience in new markets, including the medical device market; •retain Actient's relationships with commercial partners; •transition all facilities to a common information technology and financial reporting and controls environment; 29 Table of Contents •manage inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of the companies; •identify and eliminate redundant or underperforming personnel, operations and assets; •retain and integrate key employees from Actient; •manage the diversion of management's attention from business matters to integration issues; and •control additional costs and expenses in connection with, and as a result of, the acquisition, including professional fees to comply with corporate, tax, compliance and other laws relating to the medical device industry and financial reporting requirements. In addition, the actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefits of the integration plan may not be realized. Actual cost synergies, if achieved at all, may be lower than we expect and may take longer to achieve than anticipated. If we are not able to adequately address these challenges, we may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of the business acquired from Actient into our own, or to realize the anticipated benefits and our anticipated cost synergy savings of the integration. The anticipated benefits and synergies assume a successful integration and are based on projections, which are inherently uncertain, and other assumptions. Even if integration is successful, anticipated benefits and synergies may not be as expected. As a result of this transaction, we have become a significantly larger company and our business and corporate structure have become substantially more complex. There can be no assurance that we will effectively manage the increased complexity without experiencing operating inefficiencies or control deficiencies. Significant management time and effort is required to effectively manage the increased complexity of the combined business and our failure to successfully do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. In addition, as a result of these transactions, our financial statements and results of operations in prior years may not provide meaningful guidance to form an assessment of the prospects or potential success of our future business operations. The risks arising with respect to the historic business and operations of Actient and its subsidiaries may be different than we anticipate, which could significantly increase the costs and decrease the benefits of the acquisition and materially and adversely affect our operations going forward. Although we performed significant financial, legal, manufacturing and business due diligence with respect to Actient and its subsidiaries, we may not have appreciated or understood the extent of the risks associated with the acquisition. We have secured indemnification for certain matters from the former equity holders of Actient in order to mitigate the consequence of breaches of the provisions of the acquisition agreement and the risks associated with historic operations, including those with respect to compliance with laws, accuracy of financial statements, financial reporting controls and procedures, tax matters and undisclosed liabilities, and certain matters known to us. We believe that the indemnification provisions of the Merger Agreement, together with the insurance policies that we and Actient and its subsidiaries have in place will limit the economic consequence of the issues we have identified in our due diligence to acceptable levels. Notwithstanding our due diligence exercise and risk mitigation strategies, the risks of the acquisition and the costs associated with these risks may be greater than we anticipated. We may not be able to contain or control the costs associated with unanticipated risks or liabilities, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to execute on our business plan, integrate operations or continue as a viable going concern. 30 Table of Contents We may not have accurately estimated the tax benefit that we expect to receive as a result of our acquisition of Actient, which could cause our forecasts and projections to be inaccurate and have an adverse effect on our stock price. We have estimated that we will receive a tax benefit of approximately $60 million as a consequence of our acquisition of Actient in the form of a step-up in basis resulting in tax deductible amortization of the goodwill associated with the acquisition. We may not receive this tax benefit or it may be less than we anticipate. Additionally, even if the tax benefit is as or greater than we have estimated, we may not be able to use the full amount of the tax benefit associated with the Actient acquisition. Risks Related to Commercialization If medical doctors do not prescribe our products or the medical profession or patients do not accept our products, our ability to grow or maintain our revenues will be limited. Our business is dependent on market acceptance of our products and, if approved, our product candidates by physicians, healthcare payors, patients and the medical community. Medical doctors' willingness to prescribe, and patients' willingness to accept, our products depend on many factors, including: •perceived safety and efficacy of our products; •convenience and ease of administration; •prevalence and severity of adverse side effects in both clinical trials and commercial use; •availability of alternative treatments or products, including generics; •cost effectiveness and the pricing of our products; •the adequacy and effectiveness of our sales force and that of any co-promotion partner's or international partner's sales force; •the adequacy and effectiveness of our production, distribution and marketing capabilities and those of our international partners; •publicity concerning our products or competing products; and •existence and level of third-party coverage or reimbursement for our products and, in the cases of XIAFLEX for the treatment of Dupuytren's, TESTOPEL® for testosterone replacement for congenital or acquired primary hypogonadism, congenital or acquired hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, or to stimulate puberty in carefully selected males with clearly delayed puberty, and XIAFLEX for the treatment of Peyronie's, the procedures performed by physicians while treating patients with these therapies. Even though we have received regulatory approval for the products that we market currently, and even if we receive regulatory approval and satisfy the above criteria for any of our product candidates, physicians may not prescribe, and patients may not accept, our products if we do not promote our products effectively. If any of our products or product candidates fails to achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to market and sell the products successfully, which would limit our ability to generate revenue and could harm our business. We recently lost our litigation with Upsher-Smith regarding the alleged infringement of Upsher-Smith's proposed generic testosterone gel product, and the launch of a generic version of Testim could have a material adverse effect on our business. On or about December 28, 2012, we and FCB became aware of a notice from Upsher-Smith that advised us and FCB of Upsher-Smith's filing of a 505(b)(2) NDA containing a Paragraph IV 31 Table of Contents certification under 21 U.S.C. Section 314.52(c) for testosterone gel (the "Upsher-Smith NDA"). This Paragraph IV certification notice refers to the 10 U.S. patents, covering Testim, that are listed in the Orange Book. These 10 patents are owned by FCB and are exclusively licensed to Auxilium and will expire between 2023 and 2025. Upsher-Smith may seek to have any drug approved under the Upsher-Smith NDA as a generic or branded generic version of Testim. On January 28, 2013, we and FCB filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against Upsher-Smith for infringement of FCB's 10 patents listed in the Orange Book as covering Testim® 1% testosterone gel ("Delaware Upsher-Smith 505(b)(2) NDA Litigation"). A hearing on Upsher-Smith's previously filed motion for summary judgment was held on June 28, 2013, and by request of the Court, the parties submitted additional briefing in the weeks following the hearing. On December 4, 2013, the Court granted Upsher-Smith's motion for summary judgment, and the Court entered a final judgment of non-infringement in favor of Upsher-Smith on December 30, 2013. On January 24, 2014, we filed a Notice of Appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Washington, D.C. appealing the final judgment of non-infringement entered by the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The Upsher-Smith NDA was granted tentative approval by the FDA on August 16, 2013 with a brand name VogelxoTM. With the granting ofUpsher-Smith's summary judgment motion and the finding of non-infringement, the FDA may now make the approval final, at which timeUpsher-Smith will be permitted to launch its testosterone gel product, whether or not such final approval is accompanied by a therapeutic equivalence rating. On March 26, 2013, we submitted a Citizen's Petition to the FDA with respect to the Upsher-Smith NDA referencing Testim in particular, and generic testosterone gels in general. We requested that, in the event of FDA approval of the Upsher-Smith NDA, the FDA: (i) refrain from designating Upsher-Smith's testosterone gel as therapeutically equivalent to Testim and (ii) require that the label for the Upsher-Smith testosterone gel state that the product is not interchangeable with other testosterone transdermal gels. Since any such approval by the FDA would be pursuant to a 505(b)(2) NDA and not pursuant to an ANDA, it is unclear at this time whether such an Upsher-Smith product would receive a therapeutically equivalent rating to Testim or a different rating. Although the FDA has not yet substantively replied to this Citizen Petition, the FDA did communicate to us that it has not yet resolved the issues raised in the Citizen Petition. The therapeutic equivalence rating may determine whether the Upsher-Smith product, Vogelxo, if launched, would be launched as a generic, a branded generic, or simply another branded competitor in the TRT gel market. It is unclear at this time when the FDA will substantively respond to our Citizen Petition. We are exploring all options to respond to the threat posed to Testim and our revenue by any launch ofUpsher-Smith's testosterone gel product, whatever the therapeutic equivalence rating. The effect of any such product is not yet known. Now that Upsher-Smith has prevailed in the Delaware Upsher-Smith 505(b)(2) NDA Litigation, it could launch a 1% testosterone gel product using Testim as the reference drug immediately upon receiving final approval by the FDA. It is unclear whether any such potentially approved Upsher-Smith product would receive a therapeutically equivalent rating to, and thus be freely substitutable for, Testim, or if it would receive a different rating to, and perhaps not be freely substitutable for, Testim. Any such Upsher-Smith product, whatever the rating, could have a materially adverse impact on our Testim revenues, but we believe that a product with a therapeutically equivalent rating could likely have a more severe materially adverse impact on our Testim revenues. The introduction of a generic or different version of Testim at any time, whatever the rating could significantly and potentially permanently reduce the revenue we derive from Testim. Our strategies to mitigate the effects of such a generic or different version of Testim may not be effective. A significant reduction in our Testim revenue could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial 32 Table of Contents condition, including without limitation, our liquidity and net working capital and could materially and adversely affect our ability to execute on our short and long-term business plans. Our products and any of our product candidates, if approved, and our competitors' branded products may face competition from lower cost generic, branded generic or follow-on products and such generic competition could have a material adverse effect on our business. Testim, XIAFLEX, TESTOPEL, Edex®, and our other marketed products are approved under the provisions of the U.S. Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act that renders each susceptible to potential competition from generic manufacturers via the ANDA or the 505(b)(2) NDA procedure. Generic manufacturers can sell their products at prices much lower than those charged by the innovative pharmaceutical companies who have incurred substantial expenses associated with the research and development of the drug product. The ANDA procedure and the 505(b)(2) NDA procedure include provisions allowing generic manufacturers to challenge the effectiveness of the innovator's patent protection long before the generic manufacturer actually commercializes their products through the paragraph IV certification procedure. In recent years, generic manufacturers have used paragraph IV certifications extensively to challenge patents on a wide array of innovative pharmaceuticals, and we expect this trend to continue and to implicate drug products with even relatively small total revenues. TESTOPEL and Edex and certain other of our products do not currently have any patent protection and, as a result, potential competitors face fewer barriers in introducing competing products. Therefore, we must rely on trade secrets and other unpatented proprietary information in order to obtain a competitive advantage, which we may be unable to do. While we attempt to protect our proprietary information as trade secrets effectively, we cannot guarantee that the measures we have taken will provide effective protection for our proprietary information. It is possible that our competitors will independently develop products that compete with TESTOPEL and Edex and our other products. Upsher-Smith ANDA Litigation Separate from the Delaware Upsher-Smith 505(b)(2) NDA Litigation described above, we are also currently engaged in litigation with Upsher-Smith in Federal court in Delaware regarding Upsher-Smith's attempts to bring a testosterone gel product to market via an ANDA using Testim as its reference listed drug. Upsher-Smith will not be able to lawfully launch a generic or branded generic version of Testim via an ANDA in the U.S. without the necessary approval from the FDA. In October 2008, we and our licensor, CPEX Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (FCB's predecessor in interest to Testim), received notice that Upsher-Smith filed an ANDA containing a paragraph IV certification seeking approval from the FDA to market a generic version of Testim prior to the January 2025 expiration of U.S. Patent No. 7,320,968 ("'968 Patent"). Shortly after, we sued Upsher-Smith in the U.S. District Court of Delaware (the "Delaware Upsher-Smith ANDA Litigation"). Although it would seem unlikely based on (i) the FDA's public statements in its responses to the Citizen's Petitions submitted by each of us and AbbVie Inc. ("AbbVie") and (ii) Upsher-Smith's public stance that its generic product has different penetration enhancers than Testim, the FDA could approve the generic product proposed in Upsher-Smith's ANDA. With FDA approval, even if the Delaware Upsher-Smith ANDA Litigation remains pending, Upsher-Smith may nevertheless choose to launch this generic product at risk of infringing the '968 patent. Although administratively closed in December 2011, the Delaware Upsher-Smith ANDA Litigation has not been dismissed or finally resolved and could also result in a finding that Upsher-Smith's proposed testosterone product does not infringe our applicable patents or that our applicable patents are invalid and/or unenforceable. All discovery obligations of the parties continue to be in effect. In April 2012, we and FCB received a notice from Upsher-Smith in 33 Table of Contents connection with its ANDA advising us and FCB of Upsher-Smith's Paragraph IV certification relating to the eight additional patents listed in the Orange Book in addition to the '968 patent-in-suit, and asserting that Upsher-Smith does not believe that the product for which it is seeking approval infringes any of the Orange Book listed Testim patents and that those patents are invalid. A 10th U.S. patent issued to FCB on May 15, 2012 and was listed in the Orange Book. ANDA Litigation with Actavis On May 24, 2012, we and FCB filed a lawsuit against Actavis (then known as Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) for infringement of FCB's 10 patents listed in the Orange Book as covering Testim® 1% testosterone gel (the "Actavis Litigation"). The lawsuit was filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey on May 23, 2012 in response to a notice letter, dated April 12, 2012, sent by Actavis Laboratories, Inc. (NV) regarding its filing with the FDA of an ANDA for a generic 1% testosterone gel product. This letter also stated that the ANDA contained Paragraph IV certifications with respect to the nine patents listed in the Orange Book on that date as covering Testim. Our lawsuit filed against Actavis involves those nine patents, as well as a 10th patent covering Testim that was issued on May 15, 2012 and is listed in the Orange Book. An adverse outcome in the Delaware Upsher-Smith ANDA Litigation, the Actavis Litigation, or any other such legal action, could result in one or more generic or branded generic versions of Testim being launched in the U.S. immediately after such adverse outcome and before the expiration of the last to expire of the 10 Orange Book patents relating to Testim in January 2025. Now that Upsher-Smith has prevailed in the Delaware Upsher-Smith 505(b)(2) NDA Litigation, it could launch a 1% testosterone gel product using Testim as the reference drug immediately after receiving final approval by the FDA. It is unclear whether any such potentially approved Upsher-Smith product would receive a therapeutically equivalent rating to, and thus be freely substitutable for, Testim, or if it would receive a different rating to or no rating, and perhaps not be freely substitutable for, Testim. Any such Upsher-Smith product, whatever the rating, could have a materially adverse impact on our Testim revenues, but we believe that a product with a therapeutically equivalent rating could likely have a more severe materially adverse impact on our Testim revenues. The introduction of a generic or different version of Testim at any time, whatever the rating, or the introduction of a generic or different version of AbbVie's AndroGel franchise (which could be on or before August 2015) or of any other branded testosterone gel could significantly and potentially permanently reduce the revenue we derive from Testim. A significant reduction in our Testim revenue could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, including without limitation, our liquidity and net working capital and could materially and adversely affect our ability to execute on our short and long-term business plans. In addition, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the "PPACA"), enacted in March 2010, includes provisions covering biological product exclusivity periods and a specific reimbursement methodology for biosimilars. As a new biological product, we expect that XIAFLEX will be eligible for 12 years of marketing exclusivity from the date of its approval by the FDA (although this could change as the regulations are enacted) which was February 2, 2010. PPACA also establishes an abbreviated licensure pathway for products that are biosimilar to or interchangeable with FDA-approved biological products, such as XIAFLEX. As a result, we could face competition from other pharmaceutical companies that develop biosimilar versions of XIAFLEX that do not infringe our patents or other proprietary rights. Similar legislation has also been adopted in the EU. Failure to accurately forecast demand for our products could result in additional charges for excess inventories, or future charges for excess or idle plant capacity. We continually evaluate the need for reserves for inventory on hand that is in excess of expected future demand or that is not expected to meet approved or anticipated specifications. Inventories 34 Table of Contents expected to be utilized in the next 12-month period are classified as current, and inventories expected to be utilized beyond that period are classified as non-current. For XIAFLEX, such non-current inventory at December 31, 2013 represents XIAFLEX inventories which have long shelf lives. We continue to produce XIAFLEX in excess of current product demand in order to maintain manufacturing know-how and efficiencies. Based on our projections of continuing demand for XIAFLEX for Dupuytren's and XIAFLEX for Peyronie's, we believe that these inventories will be sold prior to their expiration. However, in the event that demand for XIAFLEX declines, or demand does not meet our sales forecasts for Dupuytren's and Peyronie's, we could have additional charges for excess inventories. In addition, if we reduce production levels as a result of these potential conditions, we may be required to record charges for excess or idle plant capacity. If we are required to recognize these types of charges, such charges could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We make business decisions based on forecasts of future sales of our products and product candidates that may be inaccurate. Our market estimates are based on many assumptions, including, but not limited to, reliance on external market research, our own internal research, population estimates, estimates of disease diagnostic rates, treatment trends, and market estimates by third parties. Any of these assumptions can materially impact our forecasts and we cannot be assured that the assumptions are accurate. If the market for any of our products or product candidates is less than this data would suggest, the potential sales for the product or product candidate in question could be adversely affected, and our inventories could increase. If third-party payors do not adequately reimburse customers for our products, for any of our product candidates that are ultimately approved for marketing, or for medical procedures associated with our products, our products might not be used or purchased, and our revenues and profits will not grow. Our revenues and profits depend heavily upon the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement for the use of our products (both our pharmaceutical products and our medical device products), any of our product candidates that are approved for marketing and medical procedures administered in connection with our products, from third-party healthcare and state and federal government payors, both in the U.S. and in foreign markets. Demand for many of our existing and new products and our new medical device product is, and will continue to be, affected by the extent to which government healthcare programs and private health insurers reimburse our customers for patients' medical expenses in the countries where we do business. Reimbursement by a third-party payor may depend upon a number of factors, including the third-party payor's determination that the product and related procedures are: •competitively priced; •safe, effective and medically necessary; •appropriate for the specific patient; •cost-effective; and •neither experimental nor investigational. Since reimbursement approval for a product is required from third-party and government payors, seeking this approval, particularly when seeking approval for a preferred form of reimbursement over other competitive products, is a time-consuming and costly process. Third-party payors may require cost-benefit analysis data from us in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of any product we might bring to market. For any individual third-party payor, we may not be able to provide data sufficient to gain reimbursement on a basis similar or preferred to competitive products or at all. If 35 Table of Contents reimbursement is approved, it may be at prices below that which we believe to be appropriate. Once reimbursement at an agreed level is approved by a third-party payor, we may lose that reimbursement entirely or we may lose the similar or better reimbursement we receive compared to competitive products. In addition, as a result of their purchasing power, third party payors are implementing cost cutting measures such as seeking discounts, price reductions or other incentives from pharmaceutical products and medical device products suppliers and imposing limitations on coverage and reimbursements for pharmaceutical and medical device technologies and procedures. As reimbursement is often approved for a period of time, this risk is greater at the end of the time period, if any, for which the reimbursement was approved. These trends could compel us to reduce prices for our existing products and potential new products and could cause a decrease in the size of the market or a potential increase in competition that could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Physicians may perceive the reimbursement levels associated with our marketed products to be inadequate, which could affect the use of such codes by physicians and have a material adverse effect on our business. If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities. The commercialization of our products and the clinical testing, manufacture and commercialization of our product candidates, if approved, involves significant exposure to product liability claims. We have products liability insurance that covers our products and the clinical trials of our product candidates that we believe is adequate in both scope and amount and has been placed with what we believe to be reputable insurers. This insurance has a self-insurance retention for the first $1.0 million of liability. Our product liability policies have been written on a claims-made basis. If any of our product candidates are approved for marketing, we may seek additional coverage. We cannot predict all of the adverse health events that our products or product candidates may cause. As a result, our current and future coverages may not be adequate to protect us from all the liabilities that we may incur. If losses from product liability claims exceed our insurance coverage and indemnities, we may incur substantial liabilities that exceed our financial resources. In addition, we may not be able to maintain our clinical trial insurance or product liability insurance at an acceptable cost, if at all, and this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential claims or losses. If we are required to pay a product liability claim, we may not have sufficient financial resources and our business and results of operations may be harmed. Whether or not we are ultimately successful in product liability litigation, such litigation could also consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources, and might result in adverse publicity, all of which would impair our business. Additionally, we enter into various agreements where we indemnify third parties such as manufacturers, investigators and collaborative partners for certain product liability claims related to our products. These indemnification obligations may require us to pay significant sums of money for claims that are covered by these indemnifications. As a result of our acquisition of Actient, we now have a medical device business that exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of those medical devices that we sell. There are a number of factors that could result in an unsafe condition or injury of a patient with respect to those medical devices that we manufacture or sell, including quality issues, component failures, manufacturing flaws, unanticipated or improper uses of our medical devices, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information. Any of these issues could lead to a recall of, or safety alert relating to, one or more of our medical devices and could ultimately result in claims against us. Any recall, whether voluntary or required by the FDA or similar governmental authorities in other countries, could result in significant costs and significant negative publicity. Negative publicity, including regarding a quality or safety issue, whether accurate or inaccurate, could reduce market acceptance of our medical devices, harm our reputation, decrease demand for our medical devices, result in the loss of customers, lead to product withdrawals and/or 36 Table of Contents harm our ability to successfully launch and market our medical devices in the future. The foregoing problems could also result in enforcement actions by state and federal governments or other enforcement bodies, or product liability claims or lawsuits including those being brought by individuals or by groups seeking to represent a class or establish multi-district litigation proceedings. Moreover, in some circumstances adverse events arising from or associated with the design, manufacture, quality or marketing of our medical devices could result in the FDA suspending or delaying its review of our applications for new medical device approvals. Any of the foregoing problems could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity. Testim, TESTOPEL and Striant® (together our "TRT Products") and Edex, Osbon ErecAid and STENDRA (together our "ED Products") compete in a very competitive market, and if we are unable to compete effectively with the other companies that market products for the treatment of urologic or sexual health disorders, our ability to generate revenues will be limited. The TRT and ED markets are highly competitive. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to grow our prescription volume and protect our share of the markets from competitors. Potential competitors in North America, Europe and elsewhere include major pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions and government agencies, and also include compounding pharmacy companies. As competition has increased, access to managed care plans has also become more competitive in the TRT and ED markets. Pricing, rebate and discount strategies required to gain or maintain access or, in some cases, preferential access to certain managed care plans may have a material adverse effect on the revenue we derive from our TRT Products and ED Products. The loss of preferred status or any access at all for certain managed care plans may have a material adverse effect on our TRT Products' and/or our ED Products' share of their respective markets. Other pharmaceutical or medical device companies may develop generic versions of our TRT Products or our ED Products or any products that compete with our TRT Products or ED Products that do not infringe our patents or other proprietary rights, and, as a result, our business may be adversely affected. Because the ingredients of our products and parts for our devices are commercially available to third parties, it is possible that competitors may design formulations, propose dosages or develop methods of administration that would be outside the scope of the claims of one or more, or of all, of the patent and other proprietary rights that we in-license. This would enable their products to effectively compete with our products. Governmental and other pressures to reduce pharmaceutical costs may result in physicians writing prescriptions for these generic products. The strategies that we deploy to make products price-competitive with lower cost generic products may reduce our profit margins on our products significantly. Consequently, increased competition from the sale of competing generic products could cause a material decrease in revenue from our products and adversely affect our business. In addition to potential generic testosterone gel competition from Upsher-Smith, Actavis or from another competitor, Androgel 1% and Androgel 1.62%, two additional competing TRT products, were launched in the U.S. in the first quarter of 2011 and several other pharmaceutical companies have TRT products in development that may be approved for marketing in the U.S. and the rest of the world. If testosterone replacement therapies are perceived, or are found, to create health risks, our sales of Testim, TESTOPEL and Striant may decrease and our operations may be harmed. Publications have, from time to time, suggested potential health risks associated with TRT. Potential health risks are described in various articles, including a 2014 study published in PLOS One, a 2013 study published in the Journal of the American Medical Association, a 2009 study published in the New England Journal of Medicine, a 2002 article published in Endocrine Practice and a 1999 article published in the International Journal of Andrology. The potential health risks detailed include increased 37 Table of Contents risk of heart disease, heart attack or stroke in men with a history of heart disease, fluid retention, sleep apnea, breast tenderness or enlargement, increased red blood cells, development of clinical prostate disease, including prostate cancer, increased cardiovascular disease risk and the suppression of sperm production. In April 2009, the FDA informed the Company that it had become aware, through spontaneous post-marketing adverse event reports and peer-reviewed biomedical literature, of cases of secondary exposure of children and female partners to testosterone due to drug transfer (known as transference) from adult males using testosterone gel drug products. The FDA considered this information to be "new safety information" and requested changes to the prescribing information for Testim, including a "boxed warning", which is used to highlight warning information that is especially important to the prescriber. The FDA also required a REMS that includes assessments and a Medication Guide to inform patients. It is possible that studies on the effects of TRT could demonstrate these or other health risks. Most recently, the FDA announced in January 2014 that it is investigating the risk of stroke, heart attack, and death in men taking FDA-approved TRT products. This FDA review, as well as negative publicity about the risks of hormone replacement therapy, including TRT, could adversely affect patient or prescriber attitudes and impact the TRT Product sales. These factors could adversely affect our business. Liability and costs arising from potential class action or other litigation relating to perceived health risks of TRT products or from any potential FDA investigations into TRT products or any potential products liability litigation involving any of our TRT products could have an adverse effect on our revenues and our business plans. Class action lawsuits have been initiated against certain companies with TRT products relating to alleged adverse health effects in TRT patients. Also, the FDA has commenced a safety investigation into TRT products. If similar litigation is commenced against Auxilium, or Auxilium is joined into any such existing litigation, or if the FDA investigation results in liabilities against Auxilium, then such litigation or penalties would involve potentially significant costs, including costs of defense, and could have an adverse effect on our revenue from potentially reduced sales of our TRT products or potentially the removal of our TRT products from the market. In addition, if products liability litigation is commenced against Auxilium relating to any or all of our TRT products, such litigation could result in potentially significant costs, including costs of defense and awards to plaintiffs and could also result in reduced sales of our TRT products or potentially the removal of our TRT products from the market. Furthermore, we might not be able to pay any or all such costs stemming from any such litigation. International commercialization of our products and our product candidates faces significant obstacles. We may commercialize some of our products, and product candidates, if approved, internationally on our own or through collaborative relationships with foreign partners. Our foreign regulatory, clinical and commercial resources are limited, and accordingly, our ability to expand our business outside of the U.S. on our own is limited. We may not be able to enter into collaboration agreements with appropriate partners for important foreign markets on acceptable terms, or at all. Future and current collaborations with foreign partners may not be effective or profitable for us. Any international commercialization may carry risks that we do not foresee due to our limited international resources. 38 Table of Contents Our ability to generate revenue is somewhat dependent upon the growth of the markets in which we sell our products. If these markets do not continue to grow, our ability to maintain our revenue and generate profits, if any, could be negatively impacted. Large pharmaceutical companies with greater resources than we have compete in and continue to enter the TRT and ED markets. As large pharmaceutical companies continue to promote or launch products that compete with the TRT Products and the ED Products, the amount of promotional activities to increase awareness of the benefits of TRT and ED therapies has increased significantly. We believe that the increase in promotional activities has been the primary driver of the growth of the overall TRT and ED markets. The amount of resources we devote to promotional activities is significantly less than that of our competitors. Consequently, we do not influence the growth of the TRT or ED market in any material manner. If our competitors do not continue to devote significant resources to consumer awareness, advertising, promotional and other activities, the growth of the overall TRT and ED markets, and the gel segment of the TRT market specifically, would likely continue to slow or decline. Any continued slowing or decline in the growth of the markets in which we sell our products, could negatively impact our ability to maintain our revenue and generate profits. Risks Related to our Manufacturing Operations. We have limited experience in manufacturing pharmaceutical and biologic products and may encounter difficulties in our manufacturing processes, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or delay or disrupt manufacture of those of our products that are reliant upon our manufacturing operations. The manufacture of pharmaceutical and biologic products requires significant expertise and capital investment. Although we leased our facilities in Horsham in order to have direct control over the manufacturing of the active ingredient of XIAFLEX, for which we are the sole supplier, we have limited experience in manufacturing XIAFLEX or any other pharmaceutical product. Biologics, such as XIAFLEX, require processing steps that are highly complex and generally more difficult than those required for most chemical pharmaceuticals. In addition, TESTOPEL is manufactured using a unique, proprietary process. If our manufacturing processes at the Rye, New York facility or our Horsham facility are disrupted, it may be difficult to find an alternate manufacturing site. We may encounter difficulties with the manufacture of the active ingredient of XIAFLEX or TESTOPEL, which could delay, disrupt or halt our manufacture of XIAFLEX and TESTOPEL, respectively, require write-offs which may affect our financial results, result in product recalls or product liability claims or otherwise materially affect our results of operations. These problems with manufacturing may include: •our ability to develop, implement and improve our internal manufacturing capability; •our ability to manage XIAFLEX or TESTOPEL's unique manufacturing processes; •difficulties with production and yields, including, with respect to XIAFLEX, the viability of the working cell bank and cell growth at lower than expected levels, scale-up and achieving adequate capacity for such supply; •adequately aligning production and inventory with sales; •availability of raw materials and supplies at a commercially reasonable price or at all; •contamination issues; •equipment failures; •issues with quality control and assurance; •shortages of qualified personnel; •demand for our products may exceed our capacity; 39 Table of Contents •compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations; and •lack of capital funding. Furthermore, our manufacturing operations expose us to a variety of significant risks, including: •product defects and potential product liability claims; •contamination of product or product loss; •environmental liabilities or claims resulting from our production process or contamination at our manufacturing facilities; •sudden loss of inventory; •termination by any of our licensees of its license agreement for breach of contract or otherwise; and •inability to manufacture products at a cost that is competitive with third party manufacturing operations, below the prices at which we are contractually obligated to supply to our partners or consistent with our costs of goods expectations. If we are unable to maintain regulatory approval for XIAFLEX and TESTOPEL, we may not have an alternate use for our Horsham or Rye facilities and, in the case of our Horsham facility, we will still be required to make payments under our lease. We have entered into leases for our facilities in Horsham, the first of which expires on January 1, 2017. We also own a facility in Rye, New York, where we manufacture TESTOPEL. If we are unable to maintain regulatory approval for TESTOPEL, we may not have an alternate use for our Rye facility. If we are unable to maintain regulatory approval for XIAFLEX for Dupuytren's or XIAFLEX for Peyronie's, we may not have an alternate use for the Horsham facilities but will be required to make payments under our leases. As of December 31, 2013, the total future minimum lease payments of the Horsham leases during their initial non-cancellable terms are approximately $15.1 million. Our Horsham and Rye facilities and the facilities of the manufacturer who we are in the process of qualifying as an alternate manufacturer for XIAFLEX (such manufacturer, the "Proposed Alternate Manufacturer" and such facility, the "Proposed Alternate Facility") are subject to regulatory oversight, which may delay or disrupt our development and commercialization efforts for XIAFLEX or TESTOPEL. We must ensure that all of the processes, methods, equipment and facilities employed in the manufacturing operations at our Horsham and Rye facilities and the Proposed Alternate Facility are compliant with the current cGMP requirements. The cGMP requirements govern quality control of the manufacturing process and documentation policies and procedures. Compliance with cGMP requires record keeping and quality control to assure that the clinical and commercial product meets applicable specifications and other requirements. If we or the Proposed Alternate Manufacturer fail to comply with these requirements, we may not be permitted to sell our products or may be limited in the jurisdictions in which we are permitted to sell them. Our manufacturing facilities and the Proposed Alternate Facility are subject to inspection by regulatory agencies at any time. If an inspection by regulatory authorities indicates that there are deficiencies including non-compliance with regulatory requirements, we could be required to take remedial actions, stop production or close our Horsham and/or Rye facilities or the Proposed Alternate Facility, which would disrupt the manufacturing processes, limit the supplies of XIAFLEX and TESTOPEL and delay clinical trials and subsequent licensure, and/or limit the sale of commercial supplies. Future noncompliance with any applicable regulatory requirements may result in refusal by regulatory authorities to allow use of XIAFLEX made at our Horsham facilities or the Proposed 40 Table of Contents Alternate Facility or TESTOPEL made at our Rye facilities in clinical trials, refusal of the government to allow distribution of XIAFLEX or TESTOPEL for commercialization, criminal prosecution and fines, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, prohibitions or limitations on the commercial sale of products or refusal to allow the entering into of federal and state supply contracts. We have never conducted a product recall, so we cannot be assured that we can execute a product recall successfully. We have never had to conduct a product recall for any of our products, and so we cannot be assured that we have the proper personnel and expertise to conduct a recall effectively. Additionally, our employees may have insufficient training and expertise to efficiently conduct a product recall, which could increase the time and expense incurred to execute a product recall. Similarly, our crisis management strategies may not successfully mitigate any problems in the marketplace or to our reputation as a result of any such crisis, including a product recall. Our failure to manage a product recall or other crisis effectively could have an adverse effect on our reputation, product availability, revenue and business plans. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third-Party Manufacturers, Service Providers, Testing Laboratories and Suppliers Since we currently rely on third-party manufacturers, suppliers and packagers, we may be unable to control the availability or cost of manufacturing and packaging our products, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We currently do not manufacture any of our marketed products or devices or any of our product candidates, except for TESTOPEL and the active ingredient for XIAFLEX, for which, in each case, we are the sole source of supply. We rely on third party manufacturers for our products, except as described in the preceding sentence, as well as third parties for certain packaging services for our products. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment. Our third-party manufacturers or packagers may encounter difficulties in production. These problems may include: •difficulties with production costs and yields; •availability of raw materials and supplies; •issues with quality control and assurance; •damage to, or complete loss of, raw materials, supplies or finished product; •shortages of qualified personnel; •compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations; and •lack of capital funding. Our third-party manufacturers and packagers may not perform as agreed. Likewise, we may not perform as agreed under our contracts with these manufacturers and packagers. In either event, the applicable manufacturer or packager or we, as the case may be, may terminate the applicable agreement, which would adversely impact our ability to produce and sell our products or produce our product candidates for use in clinical trials. Also, any of our third-party manufacturers and packagers could become insolvent or cease operations. The number of third-party manufacturers with the expertise, required regulatory approvals and facilities to manufacture bulk drug substance or finished products on a commercial scale is limited, and it would take a significant amount of time to arrange 41 Table of Contents and receive regulatory approval for alternative arrangements. We may not be able to contract for the manufacturing of our products or any of our product candidates on acceptable terms, if at all, which would materially impair our business. Any of these factors could increase our costs and result in our being unable to effectively commercialize or develop our products. Furthermore, if any third-party manufacturer fails to deliver the required commercial quantities of finished product on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, we may be unable to meet the demand for our products and we may lose potential revenues. Because we depend on third parties to conduct certain laboratory tests, clinical trials and other critical services, including regulatory review services, we have limited control and may encounter delays in our efforts to develop product candidates. We commonly rely on third parties to conduct laboratory tests, clinical trials and other critical services for us, including regulatory review services. If we are unable to obtain these services on acceptable terms, we may be unable to complete our product development efforts in a timely manner. Also, to the extent we will rely on third parties for laboratory tests and clinical trials, we will have limited control over these activities and may be unable to manage them appropriately. If such third parties fail to adequately handle complaints, report adverse events and calculate and report all required U.S. federal and state drug prices, Auxilium, which acquired Actient, could face significant regulatory issues. Communicating with third parties can also potentially lead to mistakes as well as difficulties in coordinating activities. Third parties may: •have staffing difficulties; •fail to comply with contractual obligations; •experience regulatory compliance issues; or •undergo changes in priorities or may become financially distressed. These third parties may not complete the tests or trials on our schedule, and the tests or trials may be methodologically flawed, may not comply with applicable laws or may be otherwise defective. We may experience unexpected cost increases that are beyond our control. Problems with the timeliness or quality of the work of a contract research organization may lead us to seek to terminate the relationship and use an alternative service provider. However, making this change may be costly and may delay our trials, and contractual restrictions may make such a change difficult. Our contracts with the contract research organizations on which we currently rely are generally terminable upon 30-days prior written notice. If we must replace any of these contract research organizations or any other contract research organization we may use in the future to conduct our clinical trials, our trials may have to be suspended until we find another contract research organization that offers comparable services. The time that it takes us to find alternative organizations may cause a delay in the commercialization of our product candidates or may cause us to incur significant expenses to replicate data that may be lost. Although we do not believe that the contract research organizations on which we rely offer services that are not available elsewhere, it may be difficult to find a replacement organization that can conduct our trials in an acceptable manner and at an acceptable cost. Our third-party manufacturers are subject to regulatory oversight, which may delay or disrupt our development and commercialization efforts. Third-party manufacturers of our products or product candidates must ensure that all of the processes, methods and equipment are compliant with cGMP, and conduct extensive audits of vendors, contract laboratories and suppliers. If they fail to comply with these requirements, we also may be required to curtail the clinical trials of our product candidates, which are also supplied by these 42 Table of Contents manufacturers, and may not be permitted to sell our products or may be limited in the jurisdictions in which we are permitted to sell them. Manufacturing facilities are subject to inspection by regulatory agencies at any time. If an inspection by regulatory authorities indicates that there are deficiencies, third-party manufacturers could be required to take remedial actions, stop production or close the facility, which would disrupt the manufacturing processes and limit the ability of JHS to continue to lyophilize and fill XIAFLEX product or limit the ability of other third parties to supply us with Testim, STENDRA, Edex, our other marketed products or our product candidates. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with the FDA's Quality System Regulation or equivalent global regulations and standards for medical devices, the manufacture and processing of our medical devices could be delayed and we may be subject to an enforcement action by the FDA or other government agencies. We and our suppliers are required to comply with the FDA's Quality System Regulation, and other applicable standards and requirements, which cover the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production or processing, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of our medical devices. The FDA and other regulatory bodies enforce compliance with regulatory requirements and standards through periodic inspections. If we or one or none of our suppliers fail an inspection or if any corrective action plan implemented following an inspection is not sufficient, the release of our medical devices could be delayed. A failure by us or our suppliers to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action against us by the FDA, which may include any of the following sanctions: •fines, injunctions, civil penalties and criminal prosecution; •recall or seizure of our products; •operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; •refusing our request for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new products; and •withdrawing 510(k) clearance or premarket approvals that have already been granted. We currently rely on single source suppliers for certain raw materials and services for manufacturing of our marketed products, and on only two suppliers for a primary ingredient for Testim, and the loss of any of these suppliers could prevent us from selling our marketed products, which would materially harm our business. We rely on third-party suppliers for our supply of raw materials for the manufacture of the ingredients of our marketed products. Certain raw materials are available to us from only limited sources and are sole sourced. Testosterone is available to us from only three sources, and we rely exclusively on two outside sources for our supply of cyclopentadecanolide ("CPD"), a primary ingredient for Testim. We do not have supply agreements in place with all of our raw material suppliers, including our suppliers of testosterone and CPD. If any of the suppliers stops manufacturing, or if we are unable to procure raw materials or services on commercially favorable terms, or if we are not able to obtain them in a timely manner, we may be unable to continue to produce or sell our marketed products on commercially viable terms, if at all. In addition, the limited number of suppliers of these raw materials and services with whom we do not have supply agreements in place may provide such companies with greater opportunity to raise their prices. Any increase in price for these raw materials or services may reduce our gross margins. 43 Table of Contents Risks Related to Collaborators We are dependent upon our collaborative relationships with third parties to further develop and commercialize XIAFLEX (or XIAPEX as it is known in the EU) outside of the U.S and to commercialize Testim outside of the U.S. There may be circumstances that delay or prevent any of these third parties' ability to develop and commercialize XIAFLEX or to commercialize Testim. We have entered into agreements with each of Sobi, Asahi Kasei and Actelion under which we have granted them the right to develop and commercialize XIAFLEX/XIAPEX in 71 Eurasian and African countries, in Japan, and in Australia, Brazil and Canada, respectively. In addition, we may seek to enter into similar arrangements with other third parties with respect to the development and commercialization of XIAFLEX/XIAPEX in the rest of the world. We have also entered into agreements with Ferring and Paladin under which we have granted them the right to commercialize Testim in Europe and Canada, respectively. We are subject to a number of risks associated with our dependence on our collaborative relationship with these third parties, including: •adverse decisions by a third party regarding the amount and timing of resource expenditures for the development and commercialization of XIAFLEX/XIAPEX or Testim; •possible disagreements as to the timing, nature and extent of our development plans, including clinical trials or regulatory approval strategy; •lack of alignment between specifications for product that we have agreed to provide to a third party and specifications that have or might be approved by regulatory authorities; •the right of a third party to terminate its collaboration agreement with us on limited notice upon the occurrence of certain defined events; •loss of significant rights if we fail to meet our obligations under the collaboration agreement; •withdrawal of support by a third party following change of that third party's corporate strategy or due to competing priorities; •changes in key management personnel at a third party that are members of the collaboration's various operating committees; and •possible disagreements with a third party regarding the collaboration agreement or ownership of proprietary rights, including with respect to inventions discovered under the applicable collaborative agreement. Due to these factors and other possible disagreements with a third party, including potential disputes over intellectual property ownership, we may be delayed or prevented from further developing, manufacturing or commercializing XIAFLEX/XIAPEX outside the U.S. or further commercializing Testim outside the U.S., or we may become involved in litigation or arbitration, which would be time consuming and expensive. If a third party were to unilaterally terminate its collaboration agreement with us, we would need to undertake development and marketing activities for XIAFLEX/XIAPEX or marketing activities for Testim, as the case may be, in that third party's territory solely at our own expense and/or seek another partner for some or all of these activities in that territory. If we pursued these activities in that territory on our own, it would significantly increase our capital and infrastructure requirements, and might limit the indications we are able to pursue and could prevent us from effectively developing and commercializing XIAFLEX/XIAPEX and could prevent us from effectively commercializing Testim, as the case may be. If we sought to find another pharmaceutical company partner for some or all of these activities, we may not be successful in such efforts, or they may result in a collaboration that has us expending greater funds and efforts than the relationship with the terminating third party. 44 Table of Contents In general, we cannot control the amount and timing that our third party partners may devote to our collaborations. We are relying on our third-party partners to obtain regulatory approvals for and successfully commercialize XIAFLEX/XIAPEX in the relevant territories. If a third party fails to adequately market and promote XIAFLEX/XIAPEX in its territory, we may be unable to obtain any remedy against that third party and sales of XIAFLEX/XIAPEX may be harmed, which would negatively impact our business, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity due to reduced milestone and royalty payments under the applicable third party agreement. We do not control the actions of our collaborators, and breaches of our agreements by any of them as well as disagreements over strategic goals could affect our business, our regulatory approvals or our reputation. We have agreements in place with our collaborators, including Sobi, Asahi Kasei, Actelion, VIVUS, FCB and BioSpecifics, and we expect that any future collaborators would similarly be engaged under contract. We also have entered into agreements with Ferring and Paladin under which we have granted them the right to commercialize Testim in Europe and Canada, respectively. Nevertheless, for reasons that we may not have an ability to foresee or control, any of our collaborators may breach their respective agreements. We also may disagree with our collaborators as to strategic issues or the manner in which our rights should be enforced. Depending on its nature, a breach could affect our regulatory approvals for our products and could affect our reputation if the consequences of a breach are imputed to us. We may need to engage in costly litigation to enforce our rights, and we may not prevail in such litigation. A breach by, or disagreement with, one of our collaborators may lead to termination of the applicable agreement, which, in the case of a license agreement, may affect the scope of our license, such as modifying an exclusive license to a non-exclusive license. Any such breach or disagreement and its consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Risks Related to Business Development Our failure to successfully in-license or acquire additional technologies, product candidates or approved products could impair our ability to grow. We intend to in-license, acquire, develop and market additional products and product candidates so that we are not solely reliant on sales from our currently approved products for our revenues. The success of this strategy depends upon our ability to identify, select and acquire the right pharmaceutical or medical device product candidates, products and technologies. We have a limited number of product candidates in our development pipeline. We may not be able to acquire or in-license the rights to additional product candidates and approved products on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. We face extensive competition in the acquisition or in-licensing of pharmaceutical or medical device products or small companies to enhance our portfolio of products. A number of more established companies, which have strategies to in-license or acquire products, may have competitive advantages, as may other emerging companies taking similar or different approaches to product acquisitions. In addition, a number of established research-based pharmaceutical, medical device and biotechnology companies may acquire products in late stages of development to augment their internal product lines. These established companies may have a competitive advantage over us due to their size, resources and experience. If we are unable to in-license or acquire additional commercial products or product candidates, we may be reliant solely on sales of our currently approved products for revenues. As a result, our ability to grow our business or increase our profits could be severely limited. We face strong competition in the medical device business. Our failure to successfully develop and market new products could adversely affect our business. The medical device industry is highly competitive. We compete with many domestic and foreign medical device companies ranging from small start-up enterprises that might sell only a single or limited number of competitive products or compete only in a specific market segment, to companies 45 Table of Contents that are larger and more established than us, have a broad range of competitive products, participate in numerous markets and have access to significantly greater financial and marketing resources than we do. In addition, the medical device industry is characterized by extensive product research and development and rapid technological advances. The future success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to design and manufacture or acquire new competitive products and enhance existing products. Our product development efforts may require us to make substantial investments. There can be no assurance that unforeseen problems will not occur with respect to the development, performance or market acceptance of new technologies or products, such as our inability to: •identify viable new products; •obtain adequate intellectual property protection; •gain market acceptance of new products; or •successfully obtain regulatory approvals. In addition, our competitors currently may be developing, or may develop in the future, products that are more effective than those that we currently offer or subsequently develop. Our failure to successfully develop and market new products or enhance existing products could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we engage in any acquisition, we will incur a variety of costs, and we may never realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. If we undertake an acquisition, the process of integrating any newly acquired business, technology, service or product into our existing operations could be expensive and time consuming and may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may divert significant management attention from our ongoing business operations. Moreover, we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition for a variety of reasons, such as an acquired product candidate proving to not be safe or effective in later clinical trials or not reaching its forecasted commercial potential. We may fund any future acquisition by issuing equity or debt securities, which could dilute our current stockholders' ownership percentage or limit our financial or operating flexibility as a result of restrictive covenants related to new debt. Acquisition efforts can consume significant management attention and require substantial expenditures, which could detract from our other programs. In addition, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions that are never completed. In pursuing our acquisition strategy, we may expend significant management time, consulting costs and legal expenses without consummating a transaction. Risks Related to Regulatory Approval of Our Products and Product Candidates We are subject to numerous complex regulatory requirements and failure to comply with these regulations, or the cost of compliance with these regulations, may harm our business. Our products and product candidates are subject to regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the U.S., Canada, Europe and the rest of the world. These regulations govern or affect the research and development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, distribution, safety, storage, record-keeping, approval, advertising, promotion, sampling, marketing and import and export of our products and our product candidates, as well as safe working conditions and the experimental use of animals. Noncompliance with any applicable regulatory requirements can result in refusal of the government to approve facilities for testing or manufacture of products as well as refusal to approve products for commercialization. Noncompliance with any applicable regulatory requirements also can result in criminal prosecution and fines, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, 46 Table of Contents prohibitions or limitations on the commercial sale of products or refusal to allow the entering into of federal and state supply contracts. The FDA and comparable governmental authorities have the authority to withdraw product approvals that have been previously granted. Currently, there is a substantial amount of congressional and administrative review of the FDA and the regulatory approval process for drug candidates in the U.S. As a result, there may be significant changes made to the regulatory approval process in the U.S. In addition, the regulatory requirements relating to the manufacturing, testing, labeling, promotion, marketing and distribution of our products may change in the U.S. or the other jurisdictions in which we may have obtained or be seeking regulatory approval for our products or product candidates. Such changes may increase our costs and adversely affect our operations. Additionally, failure to comply with, or changes to, the regulatory requirements that are applicable to our products or our other product candidates may result in a variety of consequences, including the following: •restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes; •warning letters from a governmental authority; •withdrawal of a product or a product candidate from the market; •voluntary or mandatory recall of a product or a product candidate; •fines against us; •suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals for a product or a product candidate; •suspension or termination of any of our ongoing clinical trials of a product candidate; •refusal to permit import or export of our products; •refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit; •denial of permission to file an application or supplement in a jurisdiction; •product seizure; and •injunctions, consent decrees, or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties against us. Testosterone is listed by the DEA as a Schedule III substance under the Controlled Substances Act of 1970. The DEA classifies substances as Schedule I, II, III, IV or V substances, with Schedule I substances considered to present the highest risk of substance abuse and Schedule V substances the lowest risk. Scheduled substances are subject to DEA regulations relating to manufacturing, storage, distribution, and physician prescription procedures. For example, all regular Schedule III drug prescriptions must be signed by a physician and may not be refilled. Furthermore, the amount of Schedule III substances we can obtain for clinical trials and commercial distribution is limited by the DEA and our quota may not be sufficient to complete clinical trials or meet commercial demand, if any. In addition to federal scheduling, our TRT products are subject to state-controlled substance regulation and may be placed in more restrictive schedules than those determined by the DEA and the FDA. However, to date, with the exception of the State of New York where TESTOPEL is manufactured, which has given testosterone a Schedule II classification, testosterone has not been placed in a more restrictive schedule by any state. Entities must be registered annually with the DEA to manufacture, distribute, dispense, import, export and conduct research using controlled substances. State controlled substance laws also require registration for similar activities. In addition, the DEA requires entities handling controlled substances to maintain records, file reports, follow specific labeling and packaging requirements, and provide appropriate security measures to control against diversion of controlled substances. Failure to follow these requirements can lead to significant civil and/or criminal penalties and possibly even lead to a revocation of a DEA registration. 47 Table of Contents Products containing controlled substances may generate public controversy. As a result, these products may have their marketing rights or regulatory approvals withdrawn. Political pressures and adverse publicity could lead to delays in, and increased expenses for, and limit or restrict the introduction and marketing of our product candidates. For some scheduled substances or any product, the FDA may require us to develop a comprehensive risk management program to reduce the inappropriate use of our products and product candidates, including the manner in which they are marketed and sold, so as to reduce the risk of improper patient selection and diversion or abuse of the product. Developing such a program in consultation with the FDA may be a time-consuming process and could delay approval of any of our product candidates. Such a program or delays of any approval from the FDA could increase our product development costs and may allow our competitors additional time to develop or market competing products. In addition, in many foreign markets, including the countries in the EU, pricing of pharmaceutical products is subject to governmental control. In the U.S., there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental pricing control. While we cannot predict whether such legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted, the implementation of such proposals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and profitability. Failure to obtain pricing approval in a timely manner or approval of pricing which would support an adequate return on investment or generate a sufficient margin to justify the economic risk might delay or prohibit the commercial launch of the product in those countries. The products and business activities of medical device companies are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and other federal, state and international governmental authorities, as well as comparable government agencies in other countries. The regulations govern the development, design, testing, approval, manufacturing, labeling, importing and exporting and sale and marketing of many of our medical devices. Moreover, these regulations are subject to future change. Failure to comply with applicable regulations could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages, delays in medical device manufacturing, medical device seizures, recalls, operating restrictions, withdrawal or suspension of required licenses, and prohibitions against exporting of products to, or importing products from, countries outside the U.S.. We could be required to expend significant financial and human resources to remediate failures to comply with applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines. In addition, civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion under Medicaid or Medicare, could result from regulatory violations. Any one or more of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These authorities and members of Congress have been increasing their scrutiny over the medical device industry. In recent years, the U.S. Congress, the Department of Justice, the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, and the Department of Defense have issued subpoenas and other requests for information to, and conducted investigations of and commenced civil and criminal litigation against, medical device manufacturers, primarily related to financial arrangements with health care providers, regulatory compliance and product promotional practices. We anticipate that these governmental authorities will continue to scrutinize our industry closely, and that additional regulation by government authorities may increase compliance costs, exposure to the risks of civil and criminal litigation, and other potentially adverse effects on our operations. Our defense of these claims and governmental actions, whether ongoing or filed in the future and regardless of the merits of the action or complaint, could divert the attention of our technical and management personnel away from the development and marketing of our products and services for significant periods of time. The costs incurred to defend these actions and claims could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition, even if our defense is ultimately successful. In the U.S., before we can market a new medical device, or a new use of, or claim for, or significant modification to, an existing product, we generally must first receive either 510(k) clearance 48 Table of Contents or approval of a premarket approval, or PMA, application from the FDA. In order for us to obtain 510(k) clearance, the FDA must determine that our proposed product is "substantially equivalent" to a device legally on the market, known as a "predicate" device, with respect to intended use, technology and safety and effectiveness. Obtaining PMA approval is more difficult, requiring us to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the device based, in part, on data obtained in human clinical trials. Similarly, most major markets for medical devices outside the U.S. also require clearance, approval or compliance with certain standards before a product can be commercially marketed. The process of obtaining regulatory clearances and approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the FDA and certain foreign governmental authorities, can be costly and time consuming, and clearances and approvals might not be granted for new products on a timely basis, if at all. In addition, once a device has been cleared or approved, a new clearance or approval may be required before the device may be modified or its labeling changed. Furthermore, the FDA or a foreign governmental authority may make its review and clearance or approval process more rigorous, which could require us to generate additional clinical or other data, and expend more time and effort, in obtaining future medical device clearances or approvals. The regulatory clearance and approval process may result in, among other things, delayed realization of medical device revenues, substantial additional costs or limitations on indicated uses of medical devices, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Even after a medical device has received marketing approval or clearance, such medical device approval or clearance can be withdrawn or limited due to unforeseen problems with the device or issues relating to its application. Violations of FDA requirements for medical devices could result in FDA enforcement actions, including warning letters, fines, delays in obtaining new regulatory clearances, product seizures or recalls, injunctions, advisories or other field actions, and/or operating restrictions. Medical devices are cleared or approved for one or more specific intended uses. Promoting a device for an off-label use could result in government enforcement action. Furthermore, our and our third party suppliers' facilities are subject to periodic inspections by the FDA and other federal, state and foreign government authorities, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations, including the FDA's Quality System Regulation, which requires periodic audits, design controls, quality control testing and documentation procedures, as well as complaint evaluations and investigation. The FDA also requires the reporting of certain adverse events, certain recalls or other field safety corrective actions. Issues identified through such inspections and reports may result in warning letters, manufacturing shutdowns, medical device shortages, medical device seizures or recalls, fines and delays in medical device manufacturing, and may require significant resources to resolve. As a condition for approval of XIAFLEX for Dupuytren's and XIAFLEX for Peyronie's, we are required to comply with post-marketing requirements. Failure to comply with these requirements or any future post-marketing requirements, or the cost of compliance with such requirements, may harm our business. The FDA or, for products outside the U.S. for which we hold the regulatory approvals, international regulatory agencies can establish requirements for approved products with which we must comply. For example, the law allows the FDA to require us as the sponsor of a marketing application to conduct and report the results of certain studies or clinical trials for certain purposes ("post-marketing requirements") if the FDA makes certain findings required by the statute. Failure to report or conduct the studies is considered a violation and can result in enforcement action. Additionally, the FDA can request that we voluntarily conduct studies or clinical trials to address questions or concerns ("post-marketing commitments"). These studies or clinical trials could be time-consuming and costly and the results could have negative effects on our ability to market the product. 49 Table of Contents Now that the marketing authorization for XIAPEX in the EU and certain Eurasian countries has been transferred to us after the mutual termination of the Pfizer Agreement, we will be required to comply with post-marketing requirements applicable to maintaining the approval of XIAPEX in those territories until such time as we have transferred the marketing authorization to SOBI. For XIAFLEX for Dupuytren's, XIAFLEX for Peyronie's and Testim, we are required to implement a REMS, a REMS with an ETASU, and a REMS, respectively. Failure to comply, or the cost of compliance with such REMS or REMS with an ETASU or any future REMS, may harm our business. The FDA is authorized to require us as the sponsor of an approved or unapproved marketing application to submit a proposed REMS if the FDA determines that a REMS is necessary to ensure that the benefits of a drug outweigh the risks of the drug. Failure to comply with the requirements of the approved REMS can render the drug misbranded. A violation of a REMS requirement is subject to civil penalties. Complying with the requirements of a REMS can be costly and time-consuming and adversely affect our operations. As a condition of approval for XIAFLEX for Peyronie's, the FDA required a REMS with an ETASU. The goal of the REMS with an ETASU is to certify that the appropriate physicians and practice sites are trained in the use of XIAFLEX for Peyronie's and to attempt to mitigate the serious risk of penile fracture (corporal rupture) and other serious injuries to the penis such as hematoma. The REMS with an ETASU requires Auxilium to ensure that healthcare providers who prescribe XIAFLEX for the treatment of PD are specially certified, including the completion of a training program, and to maintain a validated secure database of healthcare providers who prescribe XIAFLEX for PD and their specialties. As a condition of approval for XIAFLEX for Dupuytren's, the FDA required a REMS. The goal of the REMS is to inform and train healthcare providers about the risks of tendon rupture, serious adverse reactions affecting the injected extremity, and the potential risk of serious hypersensitivity reactions (including the potential for anaphylaxis) associated with XIAFLEX. The REMS consists of a medication guide, a communication plan, and a timetable for submission of assessments of the REMS. The communication plan includes a Dear Healthcare Provider Letter and educational materials (i.e., training guide and procedure training video). On May 7, 2009, the FDA announced that it was requiring the manufacturers of two prescription topical testosterone gels, Solvay S.A. (since acquired by Abbott, which is now AbbVie) and Auxilium, to make changes to the prescribing information and develop REMS for the products. The FDA stated that it was requiring this action after it became aware, through spontaneous post-marketing adverse event reports and peer-reviewed biomedical literature, of cases of secondary exposure of children and female partners to testosterone due to drug transfer from adult males using testosterone gel drug products (known as transference). The FDA considered this information to be "new safety information". We believe that all topical testosterone gels have a potential for transference. Testim's prescribing information has described the risk and procedures for avoidance of transference since the product was launched in 2003. The changes to the prescribing information for Testim include a "boxed warning", which is used to highlight warning information that is especially important to the prescriber. The goal of the REMS is to inform patients about the serious risk of transference or secondary exposure associated with the use of Testim and AbbVie's AndroGel. The REMS includes assessments and a Medication Guide to inform patients. The revised prescribing information and REMS for Testim was approved in September 2009. 50 Table of Contents We may not be able to obtain or maintain orphan drug exclusivity for our products or product candidates, and our competitors may obtain orphan drug exclusivity prior to us, which could significantly harm our business. Some jurisdictions, including Europe and the U.S., may designate drugs intended to treat relatively small patient populations as orphan drugs. The FDA granted orphan drug status to XIAFLEX in the U.S. for the treatment of Dupuytren's and Peyronie's. Orphan drug designation must be requested before submitting an application for marketing authorization. Orphan drug designation may not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process, but does make the product eligible for orphan drug exclusivity and, in the U.S., specific tax credits. Generally, if a product with an orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first marketing approval for the indication for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan drug exclusivity. Orphan drug exclusivity means that another application to market the same drug for the same indication may not be approved, except in limited circumstances, for a period of up to 10 years in Europe and for a period of seven years in the U.S. Maintaining orphan drug designations and orphan drug exclusivity for XIAFLEX for the treatment of Dupuytren's and Peyronie's may be critical to their success. Our competitors may obtain orphan drug exclusivity for products competitive with our product candidates before we do, in which case we would be excluded from that market. Even if we obtain orphan drug exclusivity for any of our product candidates, we may not be able to maintain it. For example, if a competitive product is shown to be different or clinically superior to our product, any orphan drug exclusivity we have obtained will not block the approval of such competitive product. In addition, even if we obtain orphan drug exclusivity for any of our product candidates, a viable commercial market may never develop and we may never derive any meaningful revenues from the sales of these products. We may not be able to develop product candidates into viable commercial products, which would impair our ability to grow and could cause a decline in the price of our stock. The process of developing product candidates, such as XIAFLEX for the treatment of Frozen Shoulder syndrome and cellulite, and any other product candidates, involves a high degree of risk and may take several years. Developing product candidates is very expensive and will have a significant impact on our ability to generate profits. Product candidates may fail to reach the market for several reasons, including: •clinical trials may show our product candidates to be ineffective or not as effective as anticipated or to have harmful side effects or any unforeseen result; •our inability to enroll patients in clinical trials within the expected timeframes; •our inability to obtain authorization from the FDA or other regulatory authority to initiate clinical trials within the expected timeframes; •product candidates may fail to receive regulatory approvals required to bring the products to market; •the FDA may not accept for review any applications for marketing approval that we submit; •adverse events arising out of investigator initiated trials over which we do not exercise control; •our ability to raise any additional funds that we need to complete our trials; •manufacturing costs and delays and manufacturing problems in general, the inability to scale up to produce supplies for clinical trials or commercial supplies, or other factors may make our product candidates uneconomical; •the proprietary rights of others and their competing products and technologies may prevent our product candidates from being effectively commercialized or obtaining exclusivity; and 51 Table of Contents •failure to meet one or more of management's target product profile criteria. Success in preclinical and early clinical trials does not ensure that large-scale clinical trials will be successful. Clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. The length of time necessary to complete clinical trials and to submit an application for marketing approval for a final decision by a regulatory authority varies significantly and may be difficult to predict. Any changes to the U.S. regulatory approval process could significantly increase the timing or cost of regulatory approval for our product candidates making further development uneconomical or impossible. Our product development efforts also could result in large and immediate write-offs, significant milestone payments, incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities or amortization of expenses related to intangible assets, any of which could negatively impact our financial results. Additionally, if we are unable to develop our product candidates into viable commercial products, we will be reliant solely on sales of our currently approved products for our revenues, potentially limiting our growth opportunities. If clinical trials for our product candidates are delayed, we would be unable to commercialize our product candidates on a timely basis, or at all, which could materially harm our business. Clinical trials that we may conduct, or that may be conducted by our partners, may not begin on time or may need to be restructured or temporarily suspended after they have begun. Clinical trials can be delayed or may need to be restructured for a variety of reasons, including delays or restructuring related to: •changes to the regulatory approval process for product candidates in those jurisdictions, including the U.S., in which we may be seeking approval for our product candidates; •obtaining an IND, or other regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; •timing of responses required from regulatory authorities; •negotiating acceptable clinical trial agreement terms with prospective investigators or trial sites; •obtaining institutional review board, or equivalent, approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; •recruiting subjects to participate in a clinical trial; •competition in recruiting clinical investigators; •shortage or lack of availability of clinical trial supplies from external and internal sources; •the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive results or poorly executed testing; •failure to validate a patient-reported outcome questionnaire; •the placement of a clinical hold on a study; •the failure of third parties conducting and overseeing the operations of our clinical trials to perform their contractual or regulatory obligations in a timely fashion; •exposure of clinical trial subjects to unexpected and unacceptable health risks or noncompliance with regulatory requirements, which may result in suspension of the trial; and •manufacturing and/or distribution issues associated with clinical supplies. We have two projects currently in clinical development, specifically CCH for the treatment of Frozen Shoulder syndrome and cellulite. Completion of clinical trials for each product candidate will be required before commercialization. If we experience delays in, or termination of, clinical trials, or fail to enroll patients in clinical trials in a timely manner, or if the cost or timing of the regulatory approval 52 Table of Contents process increases, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates will be adversely impacted. In addition, our product development costs would increase and our ability to generate additional revenue from new products could be impaired. If we are not successful in expanding the label for XIAFLEX for DC or our strategic partner, VIVUS, is not successful in expanding the label for STENDRA to include a 15-minute onset of action, our sales of XIAFLEX for DC or STENDRA, as the case may be, may be adversely affected. We have submitted an sBLA for XIAFLEX for DC seeking to expand our label to include the treatment of multiple cords simultaneously, and our partner, VIVUS, has submitted a supplemental NDA ("sNDA") to seek a label expansion for STENDRA indicating 15-minute onset of action. These label expansions may help grow our revenues related to these two products, and, if either or both of these label expansion efforts is not approved by the FDA, or not approved in a timely manner, our sales of the applicable product or products may be adversely affected. Risks Related to Intellectual Property We have only limited patent protection for our products and our product candidates, and we may not be able to obtain, maintain or protect proprietary rights necessary for the development and commercialization of our products or our product candidates. Our business and competitive positions are in part dependent upon our ability to obtain and protect our proprietary position for our products and our product candidates in the U.S., Canada, Europe and elsewhere throughout the world. We attempt to protect our intellectual property position by filing, or obtaining licenses to, patents and patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business. Our and our licensors' patents and patent applications may not protect our technologies and products because, among other things: •there is no guarantee that any of our or our licensors' pending patent applications will result in issued patents; •we may develop additional proprietary technologies that are not patentable; •there is no guarantee that any patents issued to us, our collaborators or our licensors will provide us with any competitive advantage or cover our product candidates; •there is no guarantee that any patents issued to us or our collaborators or our licensors will not be challenged, interfered with, circumvented or invalidated by third parties; and •there is no guarantee that any patents previously issued to others or issued in the future will not have an adverse effect on our ability to do business. If we fail to obtain adequate patent protection for our products, our ability to compete could be impaired. We may not control the patent prosecution, maintenance or enforcement of our in-licensed technology. Consequently, such licensed patents could be held invalid or unenforceable or could have claims construed in a manner adverse to our interests in litigation, which we would not control or to which we would not be a party. If any of the intellectual property rights of our licensors is found to be invalid, this could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Testosterone, the active ingredient in our TRT Products, and alprostadil, the active ingredient in Edex, are off-patent and are included in competing products. In the U.S., the '968 Patent covers a method for maintaining blood serum testosterone levels for treating a hypogonadal male using Testim and is listed in the Orange Book. The '968 Patent expires in January 2025. Nine additional U.S. patents 53 Table of Contents issued between 2009 and 2012 covering the composition of Testim and methods of its use and have been listed in the Orange Book. They expire in April 2023. Our licensor, FCB, also has filed continuation applications that are currently pending. We are currently party to patent infringement litigations against each of Upsher-Smith and Actavis relating to Upsher-Smith's and Actavis' respective intentions to market a different version of Testim via an ANDA approval pathway prior to the expiration of the patents listed in the Orange Book covering Testim. Also, in December 2013, Upsher-Smith obtained a summary judgment against us in the Delaware Upsher-Smith 505(b)(2) Litigation with respect to its 505(b)(2) NDA seeking approval from the FDA to market a competing testosterone gel product listing Testim as the reference listed drug prior to expiration of the same patents. The adverse outcome in the Delaware Upsher-Smith 505(b)(2) Litigation or an adverse impact in the Delaware Upsher-Smith ANDA Litigation, the Actavis Litigation, or any other such legal action, could result in one or more generic or branded generic versions of Testim being launched in the U.S. immediately after such adverse outcome and before the expiration of the last to expire of the 10 Orange Book patents relating to Testim in January 2025. Now that Upsher-Smith has prevailed in the Delaware Upsher-Smith 505(b)(2) NDA Litigation, it could launch a 1% testosterone gel product using Testim as the reference drug immediately upon final approval by the FDA. We have filed a Notice of Appeal in the Delaware Upsher-Smith 505(b)(2) Litigation, but such appeal is unlikely to prevent an Upsher-Smith launch. It is unclear whether any such potentially approved Upsher-Smith product would receive a therapeutically equivalent rating to, and thus be freely substitutable for, Testim, or if it would receive a different rating to, and perhaps not be freely substitutable for, Testim. Any such Upsher-Smith product, whatever the rating, could have a materially adverse impact on our Testim revenues, but we believe that a product with a therapeutically equivalent rating could likely have a more severe materially adverse impact on our Testim revenues. The introduction of a generic or different version of Testim at any time, whatever the rating, or the introduction of a generic or different version of AbbVie's AndroGel franchise (which could be on or before August 2015) could significantly and potentially permanently reduce the revenue we derive from Testim. A significant reduction in our Testim revenue could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, including without limitation, our liquidity and net working capital and could materially and adversely affect our ability to execute on our short and long-term business plans. The standards that the USPTO and its foreign counterparts use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change. Limitations on patent protection in some countries outside the U.S. and the differences in what constitutes patentable subject matter in these countries may limit the protection we seek outside of the U.S. In the U.S., issued patent claims may be broadened, narrowed, or even cancelled as a result of post-issuance procedures instituted by us or third parties, including reissue, re-examination, and the new supplemental examination procedure enacted as part of the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act. In addition, laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as would laws of the U.S. Also, some countries will not grant patents on patent applications that are filed after the public sale or disclosure of the material claimed in the patent application. Failure to obtain adequate patent protection for our proprietary product candidates and technology would impair our ability to be commercially competitive in these markets. Accordingly, we do not know the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights or the breadth of claims allowed in any patents issued to us or others. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and technology, which are not protected by patents, to maintain our competitive position. To maintain the confidentiality of trade secrets and proprietary information, we generally seek to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and collaborators upon the commencement of a relationship with us. However, we may not obtain these agreements in all circumstances. Nor can we guarantee that these agreements will provide 54 Table of Contents meaningful protection, that these agreements will not be breached, or that we will have an adequate remedy for any such breach. In addition, adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of this information. Others may have developed, or may develop in the future, substantially similar or superior know-how and technology. In addition, our research collaborators and scientific advisors may have contractual rights to publish our data and other proprietary information, subject to our prior review. Publications by our research collaborators and scientific advisors containing such information, either with our permission or in contravention of the terms of their agreements with us, may impair our ability to obtain patent protection or protect our proprietary information. The loss or exposure of our trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information, as well as independent development of similar or superior know-how, could harm our operating results, financial condition and future growth prospects. Many of our employees and consultants were, and many of our consultants may currently be, parties to confidentiality agreements with other companies. Although our confidentiality agreements with these employees and consultants require that they do not bring to us, or use without proper authorization, any third party's proprietary technology, if they violate their agreements, we could suffer claims or liabilities. If we breach any of the agreements under which we license development or commercialization rights to products or technology from others, we could lose license rights that are critical to our business. We are a party to a number of license and other agreements by which we have rights to use the intellectual property of third parties that are necessary for us to operate our business. In particular, we have obtained the exclusive right to develop and commercialize Testim pursuant to a license agreement with FCB. FCB may unilaterally terminate the agreement if we fail to make payments under this agreement and this failure continues for a period of 30 days following written notice to us by FCB. If the agreement is properly terminated by FCB, we may not be able to manufacture or sell Testim. We have also obtained exclusive worldwide rights from BioSpecifics to develop, market and sell products, other than dermal formulations labeled for topical administration, that contain BioSpecifics's enzyme, which we refer to as XIAFLEX, for the treatment of Dupuytren's, and for the treatment of Peyronie's, and, potentially, for the treatment of Frozen Shoulder syndrome and cellulite. Either party may terminate this agreement in the event of bankruptcy or insolvency by the other party. Additionally, either party may terminate this agreement if the other party is in material breach of its obligations under the agreement which continues for a period of 90 days following receipt of written notice of such material breach. We may terminate this agreement in its entirety, or on a country-by-country basis, on an indication-by-indication basis, or on a product-by-product basis, at any time upon 90 days prior written notice to BioSpecifics. If this agreement is properly terminated by BioSpecifics, we may not be able to execute our strategy to commercialize XIAFLEX for Dupuytren's or XIAFLEX for the treatment of Peyronie's, or to develop and potentially commercialize CCH for the treatment of Frozen Shoulder syndrome, cellulite or future product candidates utilizing BioSpecifics' enzyme. If this agreement is properly terminated by us, we will retain a non-exclusive license for these rights. VIVUS granted us the exclusive right to commercialize its pharmaceutical product STENDRA for the treatment of any urological disease or condition in humans, including male erectile dysfunction, in the U.S. and Canada and their respective territories. Either party may terminate this agreement as a result of the other party's material breach or bankruptcy. VIVUS may terminate this agreement immediately upon written notice to us if we are excluded from participation in the U.S. federal healthcare programs. After the first anniversary of the product launch in the U.S., we may terminate the agreement for any reason upon 180 days written notice. If this agreement is properly terminated by VIVUS, we will no longer be able to commercialize STENDRA. We expect to enter into additional licenses and other similar agreements in the future. These licenses and agreements may impose various development, commercialization, funding, royalty, diligence or other obligations on us. If we breach any of these obligations, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license or render the license non-exclusive, which could make it impossible for us to develop, manufacture or sell the products covered by the license. 55 Table of Contents Disputes may arise with respect to our licensing and other agreements regarding manufacturing, development and commercialization of any products relating to or resulting from the enforcement of our in-licensed intellectual property. These disputes could lead to delays in or termination of the development, manufacture and commercialization of our products or our product candidates or to litigation and could have a material adverse effect on our business. If our products or our future products infringe the intellectual property of our competitors or other third parties, we may be required to pay license fees or cease these activities and pay damages, which could significantly harm our business. Even though our products and our product candidates may be covered by patents, they may nonetheless infringe the patents or violate the proprietary rights of third parties. In these cases, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights of others in order to continue to sell and use our products and develop and commercialize our product candidates. We may not, however, be able to obtain any licenses required under any patents or proprietary rights of third parties on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we were able to obtain rights to a third party's intellectual property, these rights may be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors potential access to the same intellectual property. Third parties may assert patent or other intellectual property infringement claims against us, or our licensors or collaborators, with respect to technologies used in our products or our potential product candidates. For example, we are aware of competing intellectual property relating to the TRT gel market. While we currently believe that we have freedom to operate in the TRT gel market, others may challenge our position in the future. Any claims that might be brought against us relating to infringement of patents may cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, may cause us to pay substantial damages. We may not have sufficient resources to effectively litigate these claims. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from business operations. In addition, any patent claims brought against our licensors or collaborators could affect their ability to carry out their obligations to us. Furthermore, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us, or our licensors or collaborators, the development, manufacture or potential sale of product candidates claimed to infringe a third party's intellectual property may have to cease or be delayed. Ultimately, we may be unable to commercialize one or more of our product candidates, our patent claims may be substantially limited or we may have to cease some portion of our operations as a result of patent infringement claims, which could severely harm our business. We may have to engage in costly litigation to enforce or protect our proprietary technology or to defend challenges to our proprietary technology by our competitors or collaborators, which may harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. The medical device and pharmaceutical fields are characterized by a large number of patent filings involving complex legal and factual questions, and, therefore, we cannot predict with certainty whether our licensed patents will be enforceable. Competitors or collaborators may have filed applications for, or have been issued, patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights related to products or processes that compete with or are similar to ours. We may not be aware of all of the patents potentially adverse to our interests that may have been issued to others. Litigation may be necessary to protect our proprietary rights, and we cannot be certain that we will have the required resources to pursue litigation or otherwise to protect our proprietary rights. An adverse determination in any intellectual property litigation or interference or other post-grant review proceedings could prohibit us from selling a product or service, subject us to significant 56 Table of Contents immediate payments to third parties and require us to seek licenses from third parties. The costs associated with these license arrangements may be significant and could include substantial up-front payments and ongoing royalties. Furthermore, the necessary licenses may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all. Adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling a product or service. Competitors or collaborators may infringe our patents or successfully avoid them through design innovation. Some companies in the medical device industry have employed intellectual property litigation in an attempt to gain a competitive advantage. To prevent infringement or unauthorized use, we may need to file infringement lawsuits, which are expensive and time-consuming. In any such proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours or one that we have licensed is not valid or is unenforceable, may narrowly interpret our patent claims or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover its technology. In particular, if a competitor were to file a paragraph IV certification under the Hatch-Waxman Act in connection with that competitor's submission to the FDA of an ANDA or a 505(b)(2) NDA for approval of a generic or different version of any of our products for which we believed we held a valid patent (e.g. Testim, XIAFLEX), then we could initiate a lawsuit against such competitor claiming patent infringement and defending the relevant patent's validity and enforceability. Depending on the facts and circumstances, the FDA may stay the approval of the ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA for a generic or different version of any of our products for 30 months so long as we initiate litigation against the filer of the ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA within 45 days of receiving the paragraph IV certification. If, prior to the expiration of the 30-month stay, a court found that all of our patents were invalid or not infringed, then, notwithstanding the 30-month stay, the FDA would be permitted to approve the competitor's ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA resulting in a competitive generic or different product. An ANDA or 505(b)(2) filer seeking approval of a generic of any of our products for which there is no patent coverage (e.g., TESTOPEL, Edex) could reach the market with such a product upon approval by the FDA. We are currently party to patent infringement litigations against each of Upsher-Smith and Actavis relating to Upsher-Smith's and Actavis' respective intentions to market a different version of Testim via an ANDA approval pathway prior to the expiration of the patents listed in the Orange Book covering Testim. Also, in December 2013, Upsher-Smith obtained a summary judgment against us in the Delaware Upsher-Smith 505(b)(2) Litigation with respect to its 505(b)(2) NDA seeking approval from the FDA to market a competing testosterone gel product listing Testim as the reference listed drug prior to expiration of the same patents. The adverse outcome in the Delaware Upsher-Smith 505(b)(2) Litigation or an adverse impact in the Delaware Upsher-Smith ANDA Litigation, the Actavis Litigation, or any other such legal action, could result in one or more generic or branded generic versions of Testim being launched in the U.S. immediately after such adverse outcome and before the expiration of the last to expire of the 10 Orange Book patents relating to Testim in January 2025. Now that Upsher-Smith has prevailed in the Delaware Upsher-Smith 505(b)(2) NDA Litigation, it could launch a 1% testosterone gel product using Testim as the reference drug immediately upon final approval by the FDA. We have filed a Notice of Appeal in the Delaware Upsher-Smith 505(b)(2) Litigation, but such appeal is unlikely to prevent an Upsher-Smith launch. It is unclear whether any such potentially approved Upsher-Smith product would receive a therapeutically equivalent rating to, and thus be freely substitutable for, Testim, or if it would receive a different rating to, and perhaps not be freely substitutable for, Testim. Any such Upsher-Smith product, whatever the rating, could have a materially adverse impact on our Testim revenues, but we believe that a product with a therapeutically equivalent rating could likely have a more severe materially adverse impact on our Testim revenues. The introduction of a generic or different version of Testim at any time, whatever the rating, or the introduction of a generic or different version of AbbVie's AndroGel franchise (which could be on or before August 2015) could 57 Table of Contents significantly and potentially permanently reduce the revenue we derive from Testim. A significant reduction in our Testim revenue could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, including without limitation, our liquidity and net working capital and could materially and adversely affect our ability to execute on our short and long-term business plans. Risks Related to Healthcare Reform Legislative or regulatory reform of the healthcare system may affect our ability to sell our products profitably, may increase competition and may increase governmental oversight and compliance costs. In both the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare systems in ways that could impact our ability to sell our products profitably. In March 2010, PPACA and the associated reconciliation bill became law (collectively, the "Healthcare Reform Law"), and it includes a number of healthcare reform provisions and requires most U.S. citizens to have health insurance. Effective January 1, 2010, the Healthcare Reform Law increased the minimum Medicaid drug rebates for pharmaceutical companies, expanded the 340B drug discount program, and made changes to affect the Medicare Part D coverage gap, or "donut hole." The Healthcare Reform Law also revised the definition of "average manufacturer price" for reporting purposes (effective October 1, 2010), which could increase the amount of our Medicaid drug rebates to states. The Healthcare Reform Law also imposed annual fees on companies that manufacture or import branded prescription drug and biological products, which began in 2011. Substantial new provisions affecting compliance were also added, which may require us to modify our business practices with healthcare practitioners. In addition, the Healthcare Reform Law included provisions covering biological product exclusivity periods and a specific reimbursement methodology for biosimilars. As a new biological product, we expect that XIAFLEX will be eligible for 12 years of marketing exclusivity from the date of its approval by the FDA (although this is subject to change as the regulations are enacted). The Healthcare Reform Law also established an abbreviated licensure pathway for products that are biosimilar to or interchangeable with FDA-approved biological products, such as XIAFLEX. As a result, we could face competition from other pharmaceutical companies that develop biosimilar versions of our biological product XIAFLEX that do not infringe our patents or other proprietary rights. The full effects of the Healthcare Reform Law cannot be known until these provisions are fully implemented and CMS and other federal and state agencies issue applicable regulations or guidance. Furthermore, legislation repealing, replacing or modifying all or part of the Healthcare Reform Law may be enacted or courts may issue rulings suspending, interpreting or otherwise affecting all or part of the Healthcare Reform Law, and these changes could significantly alter any advantages or disadvantages to the Company currently stemming from the Healthcare Reform Law. Specifically, any repeal or modification of the exclusivity for biological products could have an adverse effect on our business. Moreover, in the coming years, additional changes could be made to governmental healthcare programs that could significantly impact the success of our products. The cost of pharmaceuticals and medical devices continues to generate substantial governmental interest. We expect to experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of our products due to the trend toward managed healthcare, the increasing influence of managed care organizations and additional legislative proposals. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by current and future healthcare reforms. The PPACA was enacted in March 2010. Under the PPACA, beginning in 2013, medical device manufacturers will pay a 2.3% excise tax on U.S. sales of certain medical devices. Currently, Actient's medical device, Osbon ErecAid, will likely be considered exempt from the medical device excise tax under the "retail exemption" for devices generally purchased by the public at retail for individual use 58 Table of Contents by non-medical professional customers and in a home setting. If the retail exemption is eliminated or modified, Actient's medical device may be subject to the excise tax. Lastly, the Healthcare Reform Law provisions known as the "Physicians Payments Sunshine Act" require reporting to the federal government of all payments in excess of $10 or that aggregate to $100 annually that we make to physicians, including honoraria, consulting fees, payment for research, gifts, speakers' fees, entertainment, travel, education and royalties. Required data submission includes a recipient's name, address, medical specialty, amount received, date of payment, type of payment (cash, stock, items, or services), and if the payment is related to a specific drug or medical product. Several states currently have similar laws and more states may enact similar legislation. Reporting and potential public disclosure of these expenses may make it more difficult to recruit physicians for assistance with activities that would be helpful or necessary to our business. Tracking and reporting the required expenses has resulted in considerable expense. Risks Related to Compliance and Data Security Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. We are a relatively small company and we rely heavily on third parties to conduct many important functions. As a biopharmaceutical and now medical device company, we are subject to a large body of legal and regulatory requirements. We are also subject to a new regulatory regime with respect to our medical device products and as a supplier of durable medical equipment, prosthetics, orthotics and supplies, with which we do not have experience, as a consequence of our acquisition of Actient. In addition, as a publicly traded company we are subject to significant regulations, some of which have either only recently been adopted or are currently proposals subject to change. We cannot give assurances that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable laws and regulations. We cannot verify that the past procedures, programs, and polices of Actient or its subsidiaries were compliant with all potentially applicable laws and regulations. Any such past compliance failures could increase the costs of the Actient acquisition and adversely affect our operations and revenues. Failure to comply with all potentially applicable federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations could lead to the imposition of fines, result in our exclusion from participation in state and federal healthcare programs, cause the value of our common stock to decline, impede our ability to raise capital or lead to the de-listing of our stock. If we fail to comply with applicable requirements of the Health Insurance Portability Accountability Act of 1996, as amended ("HIPAA") and the HIPAA regulations or state health information privacy or identity theft laws with respect to its durable medical equipment ("DME") supplier business, we could be subject to significant monetary penalties and loss of reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on us. The Administrative Simplification provisions of HIPAA, directed the Secretary of HHS to promulgate regulations establishing protections for the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information, known as "protected health information." The HIPAA privacy regulations establish comprehensive requirements relating to the use and disclosure of protected health information. The HIPAA security regulations establish minimum standards for the protection of protected health information that is stored or transmitted electronically. The breach notification regulations require that certain notifications be made to individuals, to HHS and potentially to the media in the event of breaches of the privacy of protected health information. Violations of the HIPAA regulations are punishable by civil and criminal penalties. The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act ("HITECH"), part of the American Recovery and Economic Reinvestment Act of 2009, contained significant changes to HIPAA, including major changes to the enforcement provisions. Among other things, HITECH 59 Table of Contents significantly increased the amount of civil monetary penalties that can be imposed for violations of HIPAA. HITECH also authorized state attorneys general to bring civil enforcement actions under HIPAA. These enhanced penalties and enforcement provisions went into effect immediately upon enactment of HITECH. A number of HITECH's changes to HIPAA required the issuance of implementing regulations by HHS. The breach notification regulations were promulgated as a result of HITECH. In addition, on January 25, 2013, the HHS Office for Civil Rights ("OCR") published a comprehensive set of final regulations designed to implement a number of the HITECH changes and to make other changes to the HIPAA regulations. The new regulations required compliance by September 23, 2013. The changes to HIPAA enacted as part of HITECH reflect a Congressional intent that HIPAA's privacy and security provisions be more strictly enforced. It is likely that these changes will stimulate increased enforcement activity and enhance the potential that health care providers will be subject to financial penalties for violations of HIPAA. In addition to the federal HIPAA regulations, most states also have laws that protect the confidentiality of health information. Also, in response to concerns about identity theft, many states have adopted so-called "security breach" notification laws that may impose requirements regarding the safeguarding of personal information, such as social security numbers and bank and credit card account numbers, and that impose an obligation to notify persons when their personal information has or may have been accessed by an unauthorized person. Some state security breach notification laws may also impose physical and electronic security requirements. Violation of state security breach notification laws can trigger significant monetary penalties. The Company, through its acquisition of Actient's DME supplier business, is subject to HIPAA and the HIPAA regulations and may be subject to the foregoing fines and penalties, which may be significant. Our controls over external financial reporting may fail or be circumvented. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies. In addition, we are required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, to report annually on our internal control over financial reporting. If we, or our independent registered public accounting firm, determine that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, this shortcoming could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results and the price of our common stock could be negatively affected. This reporting requirement could also make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. Any system of internal controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulation concerning control and procedures could have a material effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees and as executive officers. We could be negatively impacted by future interpretation or implementation of federal and state fraud and abuse laws, including anti-kickback laws, false claims laws and federal and state anti-referral laws. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws, false claims laws and physician self-referral laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, Department of Defense and Veterans' health programs. To date, we have not been challenged by a governmental authority under any of these laws. 60 Table of Contents However, because of the far-reaching nature of these laws, we may be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. Health care fraud and abuse regulations are complex, and even minor, inadvertent irregularities can potentially give rise to claims that the law has been violated. Any violations of these laws could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If there is a change in law, regulation or administrative or judicial interpretations, we may have to change our business practices or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could become subject to false claims litigation under federal or state statutes, which can lead to civil monetary penalties, criminal fines and imprisonment, and/or exclusion from participation in federal health care programs. These false claims statutes include the federal False Claims Act, which allows any person and/or the government to bring suit alleging the false or fraudulent submission of claims for payment under federal programs or other violations of the statute and to share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. Such suits, known as qui tam actions, have increased significantly in recent years and have increased the risk that companies like us may have to defend a false claim action. We could also become subject to similar false claims litigation under state statutes. If we must defend any such action and/or if we are unsuccessful in defending any such action, such action may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are required to report pricing information to the Federal and state governments as part of our participation in programs such as the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, Medicare Part B, and programs run by the Public Health Service, and the Department of Defense. If these reports are not filed in a timely and accurate fashion, we could be subjected to fines and liability under the False Claims Act. We may also become subject to liability arising from Actient's role as a DME supplier, notwithstanding the fact that we are no longer a DME supplier since we outsourced these activities. DME suppliers are subject to the Stark Law (i.e., the physician self-referral law), the Anti-Kickback Statute, the False Claims Act, and other federal healthcare program fraud and abuse laws, other federal healthcare program laws that regulate DME suppliers specifically, and federal and state privacy laws. Violations of these laws can result in significant penalties. We also may be liable to third-party payors, including Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs, for repayment of overpayments of claims for DME products that are asserted by such payors or their contractors, or we may incur expenses appealing any such overpayment determinations. For example, we have been subject to Zone Program Integrity ("ZPIC") audits in connection with our and Actient's sales of ErecAid and such audits have resulted in reimbursement payments by us to Medicare. Future ZPIC audits could result in additional and higher reimbursement payment obligations by us. Our medical device business faces periodic and routine reviews, audits and investigations under our contracts with Federal and state government agencies and private payors, and these audits could have adverse findings that may negatively impact our business. As a result of our participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, our medical device business is subject to various governmental reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with these programs and applicable laws and regulations. Our medical device business is also subject to audits under various government programs, including the Recovery Audit Contractor ("RAC") and Zone Program Integrity Contractor ("ZPIC") programs, in which third party firms engaged by CMS conduct extensive reviews of claims data and medical and other records to identify potential improper payments under the Medicare program for our devices. Private pay sources also reserve the right to conduct audits. If billing errors are identified in the sample of reviewed claims, the billing error can be extrapolated to all claims filed which could result in a larger overpayment than originally identified in 61 Table of Contents the sample of reviewed claims. Our costs to respond to and defend reviews, audits and investigations may be significant. Moreover, an adverse review, audit or investigation could result in: •required refunding or retroactive adjustment of amounts we have been paid for our medical devices pursuant to the Federal or state programs or from private payors; •state or Federal agencies imposing fines, penalties and other sanctions on us; •loss of our right to participate in the Medicare program, state programs, or one or more private payor networks; or •damage to our business and reputation in various markets. These results could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We face risks associated with having foreign operations, including compliance with applicable foreign laws and regulations. We are faced with increasingly complex standards for complying with foreign laws and regulations that may differ substantially from country to country and may conflict with corresponding U.S. laws and regulations. We may not be able to operate in, or maintain, compliance with foreign laws and regulations. In addition, there may be unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements, including quality standards and other certification requirements, data privacy safeguards, financial reporting controls and procedures, and reimbursement procedures of which we may not become aware. Any changes to such regulatory requirements could require us to alter one or more of our practices to maintain compliance, which could significantly increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to manufacture, market and sell our products. If we do not comply with foreign laws and regulations we could be faced with significant penalties that could impose considerable costs on us or prevent us from operating in those jurisdictions, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. We may be exposed to liability claims associated with the use of hazardous materials and chemicals. Our research and development activities and our commercial TRT products involve the use of testosterone and large amounts of alcohol which are classified as hazardous materials and chemicals. In addition, we manufacture TESTOPEL ourselves at our Rye, New York facility due to our acquisition of Actient. XIAFLEX is a biologic product. Biologic products may present a manufacturing health hazard due to risk of infection with the bacterial cell line used to produce the product or with potential bacteriophage contamination with the fermentation. Although we believe that our safety procedures for using, storing, handling, manufacturing and disposing of these materials comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from these materials. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages and any liability could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous or radioactive materials and waste products may require us to incur substantial compliance costs that could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. To our knowledge, we have not been the subject of any investigation by any agency or authority for failure to comply with any rules or regulations applicable to hazardous materials or chemicals. We do not maintain specific insurance for the handling of biological, hazardous and radioactive materials. We have contracts with third-party providers for the storage and disposal of hazardous waste and believe that any claims against us in these areas would be the responsibility of these third parties. However, we may be held responsible for these claims despite the fact that we have contracted with third parties for the storage and disposal of hazardous waste. If we are exposed to 62 Table of Contents these types of claims, we could be held responsible for liabilities that exceed our financial resources, which could severely affect our operations. Significant disruptions of information technology systems or breaches of information security could adversely affect our business. We rely upon sophisticated information technology systems to operate our business. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data and confidential information, including our intellectual property and proprietary business information, and that of our suppliers, customers and business partners. The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. We also use our technology to maintain our manufacturing infrastructure to effectively manage and maintain our inventory and internal reports, to manufacture and ship products and prepare timely invoices. Any failure, inadequacy, or interruption of that infrastructure or security lapse of that technology, including cybersecurity incidents could harm our ability to operate our business effectively. Despite our security measures, we may be susceptible to third-party attacks on our information security systems. We may also be vulnerable to breaches due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach or service disruption could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Such a breach or disruption could also affect our ability to manage and maintain our inventory and internal reports and result in delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency of our operations. Any such attack, access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in significant financial, legal, business or reputational harm. Risks Related to Our Financial Results, Our Need for Additional Financing and Our Stock Price We have incurred significant losses since our inception in July 1999 and, although we achieved initial year-end profitability for 2012, we may not remain profitable every quarter or every year. Prior to 2012, we have incurred significant losses since our inception. As of December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of $340.2 million. We achieved initial year-end GAAP profitability for 2012 but did not maintain year-end GAAP profitability in 2013. We cannot be assured that we will achieve profitability in future quarters or years. If we fail to achieve or maintain profitability on a quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year basis, the value of our common stock may decline substantially. Our future results are unpredictable, and therefore, our common stock is a highly speculative investment. Our future results are unpredictable and our success is dependent upon many factors. Accordingly, our stockholders and prospective stockholders must consider our prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we may encounter. Our stock price may be volatile and our stockholders may lose some or all of their investment. For the foreseeable future, if we are unable to grow sales of our products and out-licensing revenues, we will be unable to increase our revenues or maintain profitability and we may be forced to delay or change our current plans to develop our product candidates. Our results of operations and earnings may not meet guidance or expectations. We provide public guidance on our expected results of operations for future periods. This guidance is comprised of forward-looking statements subject to risks and uncertainties, including the risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 and in our other public filings and public statements, and is based necessarily on assumptions we make at the time we provide such guidance. Our actual results may not always be consistent with our guidance, especially in light of our acquisition of Actient, with whose products we have limited experience, or with respect to volatile market conditions for TRT products, rendering it difficult to provide guidance. If, in the future, our results of operations for a particular period do not meet our guidance or the expectations of investment analysts or if we reduce our guidance for future periods, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. 63 Table of Contents Outstanding options and warrants could result in substantial dilution. As of December 31, 2013, options to purchase 7,345,535 shares of our common stock were outstanding. In addition, as of December 31, 2013, a total of 2,956,403 stock options are available for grant under our 2004 Equity Compensation Plan, amended and restated as of June 21, 2012. A total of 1,893,570 of the outstanding options were "in the money" and exercisable as of December 31, 2013. "In the money" means that the current market price of the common stock is above the exercise price of the shares subject to the option. In addition, we have 338,888 restricted stock units outstanding as of December 31, 2013. The issuance of common stock upon the exercise of these options or the vesting of any restricted stock units could adversely affect the market price of the common stock or result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. As part of the consideration delivered to Actient's shareholders, we issued warrants to purchase an aggregate of 1.25 million shares of our common stock on April 26, 2013, at an exercise price of $17.80 per share. In connection with our issuance of our 1.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2018 (the "2018 Convertible Notes") , we issued warrants to purchase 14.48 million shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $27.36 per share. To the extent the warrants are exercised, additional shares of our common stock will be issued that will be eligible for resale in the public market, which will result in dilution to our security holders. The issuance of additional securities could also have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We do not have a significant amount of authorized but unissued common stock that is not already reserved for issuance and, if we do not amend our charter to increase the number of our authorized shares, we will likely not have access to additional equity and such inability to deploy equity could have a material adverse effect on our business. After accounting for our outstanding common stock and common stock reserved for potential issuance in connection with our 2004 Equity Compensation Plan, amended and restated as of June 21, 2012, the conversion of the 2018 Convertible Notes and the warrants issued to Actient's shareholders, we do not have a significant amount of authorized but unissued common stock that is available for new issuances. Increasing our authorized common stock requires us to amend our charter which then requires the approval of our stockholders. If we do not, or are not able to, amend our charter to increase the number of our authorized shares, we will likely not have access to significant additional equity and such inability to deploy equity could hamper efforts to retain and incentivize employees, to access capital, or to engage in strategic transactions using equity as a consideration component, and our failure to achieve such goals could have a material adverse effect on our business. If our financial resources and sources of liquidity are not sufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements or fund our anticipated operations, we may either need or choose to borrow money or issue additional equity or debt or we may be required to limit, scale back or cease our operations. Based on our current plans and expectations, we believe that our current financial resources and sources of liquidity will be adequate for the Company to fund our anticipated operations for the next twelve months. We may elect to raise additional funds in order to enhance our sales and marketing efforts for additional products we may license or acquire, commercialize any product candidates that receive regulatory approval, enhance our ability to acquire businesses or companies or acquire or in-license approved products or product candidates or technologies for development, and to maintain adequate cash reserves to minimize financial market fundraising risks. If additional funds are required, we may raise such funds from time to time through public or private sales of equity or debt securities or from bank or other loans. Financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and our failure to raise capital when needed could materially adversely impact our growth plans and our financial condition or results of operations. Additional equity financing, if available, may be dilutive to the holders of our common stock and may involve significant cash payment obligations and covenants 64 Table of Contents that restrict our ability to operate our business. If we are unable to obtain this additional financing, we may be required to: •reduce the size or scope, or both, of our sales and marketing efforts for our current products or any of our future products; •delay or reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our planned development, commercialization or expansion activities; •seek collaborators for our product candidates at an earlier stage than otherwise would be desirable and on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available; and/or •relinquish, license or otherwise dispose of rights to technologies, product candidates or products that we currently market or would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available. We may become subject to stockholder activism efforts that each could cause material disruption to our business. Certain influential institutional investors and hedge funds have taken steps to involve themselves in the governance and strategic direction of certain companies due to governance or strategic related disagreements between such companies and such stockholders. If we become subject to such stockholder activism efforts, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could harm our business and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware law may prevent or frustrate a change in control in management that stockholders believe is desirable. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: •limitations on the removal of directors; •advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; •the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; and •the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of, and issue, new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a rights plan that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our board of directors. The affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote is necessary to amend or repeal the above provisions of our certificate of incorporation. In addition, absent approval of our board of directors, our bylaws may only be amended or repealed by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote. In addition, Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns or within the last three years has owned 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a 65 Table of Contents prescribed manner. Accordingly, Section 203 may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Our ability to use net operating loss carry forwards to reduce future tax payments may be limited if taxable income does not reach sufficient levels or there is a change in ownership of Auxilium. Under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, a corporation is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize net operating losses ("NOLs"), to offset future taxable income. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $135.9 million of NOLs available to reduce federal taxable income in future years. Losses for federal income tax purposes can generally be carried forward for a period of 20 years. The ability to use net operating loss carry forwards will be dependent on our ability to generate taxable income. The net operating loss carry forwards could expire before we generate sufficient taxable income. Our ability to utilize the NOL's may be further limited if we undergo an ownership change, as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 ("Section 382"). In the event of an ownership change, Section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the amount of post-ownership change taxable income a corporation may offset with pre-ownership change NOL's. If an ownership change were to occur, the annual limitation under Section 382 could result in a material amount of our NOLs expiring unused. This would significantly impair the value of our NOL asset and, as a result, could have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Convertible Senior Notes and Related Hedge Transactions, and Term Loan We incurred significant indebtedness through the sale of our 1.5% 2018 Convertible Notes and under a credit agreement between the Company and its existing domestic subsidiaries and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as amended (the "Credit Agreement") providing for a $225 million senior secured term loan and an additional incremental $50 million (collectively, the "Term Loan"), and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. The indebtedness created by the sale of the notes, the Term Loan and any future indebtedness we incur exposes us to risks that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We incurred $350.0 million of senior indebtedness in January 2013 when we sold $350.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 2018 Convertible Notes. We incurred $225 million in senior secured indebtedness in connection with the acquisition of Actient in April 2013, which, pursuant to the Credit Agreement, will amortize at a rate of 1% per annum and has a final maturity date of April 26, 2017. We also incurred an additional $50 million in senior secured indebtedness in September 2013 under the Credit Agreement with the same amortization and maturity terms, raising the total borrowing under the Term Loan to $275 million. We may also incur additional long-term indebtedness or obtain additional working capital lines of credit to meet future financing needs. Our indebtedness could have significant negative consequences for our business, results of operations and financial condition including: •increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; •limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; •requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes; •limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; and •placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage with less leveraged competitors and competitors that may have better access to capital resources. We cannot assure stockholders that we will continue to maintain sufficient cash reserves or that our business will continue to generate cash flow from operations at levels sufficient to permit us to pay 66 Table of Contents principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or that our cash needs will not increase. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments, or if we fail to comply with the various requirements of the 2018 Convertible Notes, the Credit Agreement or any indebtedness which we may incur in the future, we would be in default, which may permit the holders of the 2018 Convertible Notes, the lenders under the Credit Agreement and holders of such other future indebtedness to accelerate the maturity of the 2018 Convertible Notes, the Term Loan and such other indebtedness and could cause defaults thereunder. Any acceleration of the 2018 Convertible Notes, the Term Loan or any indebtedness which we may incur in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, including without limitation, our liquidity and net working capital. In the event the conditional conversion features of the 2018 Convertible Notes are triggered, holders of the 2018 Convertible Notes will be entitled to convert the 2018 Convertible Notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their 2018 Convertible Notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock, we would be required to make cash payments to satisfy all or a portion of our conversion obligation based on the applicable conversion rate. If we are unable to satisfy any portion of such obligation, we would be in default. In addition, the expenditure of cash to satisfy such obligation could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their 2018 Convertible Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the 2018 Convertible Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which could result in a material reduction of our net working capital. Provisions in the indenture for the 2018 Convertible Notes may deter or prevent a business combination. If a fundamental change occurs prior to the maturity date of the 2018 Convertible Notes, holders of the 2018 Convertible Notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their 2018 Convertible Notes. In addition, if a fundamental change occurs prior to the maturity date of 2018 Convertible Notes, we will in some cases be required to increase the conversion rate for a holder that elects to convert its 2018 Convertible Notes in connection with such fundamental change. In addition, the indenture for the 2018 Convertible Notes prohibits us from engaging in certain mergers or acquisitions unless, among other things, the surviving entity assumes our obligations under the 2018 Convertible Notes. These and other provisions could prevent or deter a third party from acquiring us even where the acquisition could be beneficial to our stockholders. The convertible note hedge and warrant transactions we entered into in connection with our 2018 Convertible Notes issuance may affect the trading price of our common stock. In connection with our offering of the 2018 Convertible Notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions with four financial institutions, or the hedge counterparties. We entered into these convertible note hedge transactions with the expectation that they will reduce the potential dilution to our common stock and/or offset potential cash payments in excess of the principal amount of the 2018 Convertible Notes, as the case may be, upon conversion of the 2018 Convertible Notes. In the event that the hedge counterparties fail to deliver shares to us or potential cash payments, as the case may be, as required under the convertible note hedge documents, we would not receive the benefit of such transactions. Separately, we also entered into warrant transactions with the hedge counterparties. The warrant transactions could separately have a dilutive effect from the issuance of common stock pursuant to the warrants. In connection with hedging these transactions, the hedge counterparties and/or their affiliates may enter into various derivative transactions with respect to our Common Stock, and may enter into, or may unwind, various derivative transactions and/or purchase or sell our Common Stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to maturity of the 2018 Convertible Notes 67 Table of Contents (and are likely to do so during any conversion period related to any conversion of the 2018 Convertible Notes). These activities could have the effect of increasing or preventing a decline in, or could have a negative effect on, the value of our Common Stock and could have the effect of increasing or preventing a decline in the value of our Common Stock during any cash settlement averaging period related to a conversion of the 2018 Convertible Notes. In addition, we intend to exercise options under the convertible note hedge transactions whenever the 2018 Convertible Notes are converted. Depending upon the method we elect to exercise such options, in order to unwind its hedge position with respect to the options we exercise, the hedge counterparties and/or their affiliates may sell shares of our Common Stock or other securities in secondary market transactions or unwind various derivative transactions with respect to our Common Stock during the cash settlement averaging period for the converted 2018 Convertible Notes. The effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the trading price of our Common Stock or the 2018 Convertible Notes will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our Common Stock and the value of the 2018 Convertible Notes. The derivative transactions that the hedge counterparties and/or their affiliates expect to enter into to hedge these transactions may include cash-settled equity swaps referenced to our Common Stock. In certain circumstances, the hedge counterparties and/or their affiliates may have derivative positions that, when combined with the hedge counterparties' and their affiliates' ownership of our Common Stock, if any, would give them economic exposure to the return on a significant number of shares of our Common Stock. The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the 2018 Convertible Notes, is the subject of recent changes that could have a material effect on our reported financial results. In May 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, which we refer to as FASB, issued FASB Staff Position No. APB 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash Upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement), which has subsequently been codified as Accounting Standards Codification 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, which we refer to as ASC 470-20. Under ASC 470-20, an entity must separately account for the liability and equity components of the convertible debt instruments (such as the 2018 Convertible Notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuer's economic interest cost. The effect of ASC 470-20 on the accounting for the 2018 Convertible Notes is that the equity component is required to be included in the additional paid-in capital section of stockholders' equity on our consolidated balance sheet, and the value of the equity component would be treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the 2018 Convertible Notes. As a result, we will be required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense in current periods presented as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of the 2018 Convertible Notes to their face amount over the term of the 2018 Convertible Notes. We will report lower net income in our financial results because ASC 470-20 requires interest to include both the current period's amortization of the debt discount and the instrument's coupon interest, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results, the trading price of our common stock and the trading price of the 2018 Convertible Notes. In addition, convertible debt instruments (such as the 2018 Convertible Notes) that may be settled entirely or partly in cash are, where the issuer has the intent and policy to settle such instruments partly in a cash amount equal to the principal amount, currently accounted for utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the shares issuable upon conversion of the 2018 Convertible Notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the 2018 Convertible Notes exceeds their principal amount. Under the treasury stock method, for diluted earnings per share purposes, the transaction is accounted for as if the 68 Table of Contents number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle such excess, if we elected to settle such excess in shares, are issued. We cannot be sure that the accounting standards in the future will continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method. If we are unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares issuable upon conversion of the 2018 Convertible Notes, then our diluted earnings per share would be adversely affected. Future sales or issuances of our common stock in the public market, or upon settlement of the conditional conversion feature of the 2018 Convertible Notes, if triggered, would be dilutive to our common stockholders, could lower the market price for our common stock and could adversely impact the trading price of the 2018 Convertible Notes. In the future, we may sell additional shares of our common stock to raise capital. In addition, a substantial number of shares of our common stock are reserved for issuance upon the exercise of stock options and upon conversion of the 2018 Convertible Notes. If the 2018 Convertible Notes are converted or if we settle in shares, there would be an issuance of substantial amounts of common stock, which could be dilutive to our common stockholders and could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We cannot predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price for our common stock. The issuance and sale of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such issuances and sales may occur, could adversely affect the trading price of the 2018 Convertible Notes and the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Restrictive covenants in the Credit Agreement may adversely affect us. We must comply with operating and financing restrictions set forth in the Credit Agreement pursuant to which we secured the Term Loan. We may also have similar restrictions with any future debt. These restrictions affect, and in many respects limit or prevent us from: •incurring additional indebtedness; •incurring liens; •merging or consolidating with or into other companies or selling substantially all our assets; •selling assets; •making restricted payments, including dividends or other distributions; •making investments, including joint venture and partnership investments; •repurchasing our debt and our capital stock; and •entering into transactions with affiliates. Under the Credit Agreement, we are required to make regularly scheduled quarterly payments and payments from excess positive cash flow, if any, and, other mandatory payments upon the occurrence of certain events, including the issuance of debt, the sale of assets and the receipt of condemnation or casualty proceeds, in each case subject to certain limitations and conditions set forth in the Credit Agreement. The foregoing restrictions could limit our ability to plan for, or react to, market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs or otherwise could restrict our activities. These restrictions could also adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations, capital needs or engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. 69 Table of Contents Downgrades by credit rating agencies of our Company or our debt could affect our ability to access future borrowings and could adversely affect our business plans and our stock price. Both our Company and our debt are rated by credit ratings agencies. These agencies may downgrade our rating at any time. Any downgrade of us or our debt could limit or eliminate our ability to access the debt markets for additional financing and adversely affect our business plans. In addition, any such downgrade could have a negative impact on our share price. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 