ITEM 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information included in this Report, the following factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. Any of the following risks, either alone or taken together, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations. If one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, our actual results may vary materially from what we projected. There may be additional risks that we do not presently know or that we currently believe are immaterial which could also impair our business or financial position. Risks Related to Commercialization If medical doctors do not prescribe our products or the medical profession or patients do not accept our products, our ability to grow or maintain our revenues will be limited. Our business is dependent on market acceptance of our products by physicians, healthcare payors, patients and the medical community. Medical doctors’ willingness to prescribe, and patients’ willingness to accept, our products depend on many factors, including: • perceived safety and efficacy of our products; • convenience and ease of administration; • prevalence and severity of adverse side effects in both clinical trials and commercial use; • availability of alternative treatments or products, including generics; • cost effectiveness and the pricing of our products; • the adequacy and effectiveness of our sales force and that of any co-promotion partner’s or international partner’s sales force; • the adequacy and effectiveness of our production, distribution and marketing capabilities and those of our international partners; • publicity concerning our products or competing products; and • existence and level of third-party coverage or reimbursement for our products and, in the case of XIAFLEX for the treatment of Dupuytren’s, the procedures performed by physicians while treating patients with XIAFLEX. Even though we have received regulatory approval for Testim® for the treatment of hypogonadism and XIAFLEX for the treatment of adult Dupuytren’s patients with a palpable cord, and even if we receive regulatory approval and satisfy the above criteria for any of our product candidates, physicians may not prescribe, and patients may not accept, our products if we do not promote our products effectively. If any of our products or product candidates fails to achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to market and sell the products successfully, which would limit our ability to generate revenue and could harm our business. Our products and any of our product candidates, if approved, may face competition from lower cost generic or follow-on products and such generic competition could have a material adverse effect on our business. Testim is approved under the provisions of the U.S. Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act that renders it susceptible to potential competition from generic manufacturers via the Abbreviated New Drug Application (“ANDA”) procedure. Generic manufacturers pursuing ANDA approval are not required to conduct costly and time-consuming clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of their products; rather, they are permitted to rely on the innovator’s data regarding safety and efficacy. Thus, generic manufacturers can sell their products at prices much lower than those charged by the innovative pharmaceutical companies who have incurred substantial expenses associated with the research and development of the drug product. 28 The ANDA procedure includes provisions allowing generic manufacturers to challenge the effectiveness of the innovator’s patent protection long before the generic manufacturer actually commercializes their products through the paragraph IV certification procedure. In recent years, generic manufacturers have used paragraph IV certifications extensively to challenge patents on a wide array of innovative pharmaceuticals, and we expect this trend to continue and to implicate drug products with even relatively small total revenues. In October 2008, we and our licensor, CPEX (FCB’s predecessor in interest to Testim), received notice that Upsher-Smith filed an ANDA containing a paragraph IV certification seeking approval from the FDA to market a generic version of Testim prior to the January 2025 expiration of the ’968 Patent. See “Competition–TRT Market Competition–Generic Competition” in Part I, Item 1 above for discussion of the Upsher-Smith Litigation and Upsher-Smith’s efforts to obtain approval of a generic version of Testim. Upsher-Smith will not be able to lawfully launch a generic version of Testim in the U.S. without the necessary approval from the FDA. Although it would seem unlikely based on the FDA’s public statements in its responses to the Citizen’s Petitions submitted by each of us and Abbot and Upsher-Smith’s public stance that its generic product has different penetration enhancers than Testim, the FDA could approve Upsher-Smith’s proposed generic product. With FDA approval, even if the Upsher-Smith Litigation remains pending, Upsher-Smith may nevertheless choose to launch its generic product, if approved, at risk of infringing the ’968 patent. Although administratively closed in December 2011, the Upsher-Smith Litigation has not been dismissed or finally resolved and could also result in a finding that Upsher-Smith’s proposed testosterone product does not infringe the ’968 Patent or that the ’968 Patent is invalid and/or unenforceable. An adverse outcome in the Upsher-Smith Litigation or any such legal action could result in one or more generic versions of Testim being launched in the U.S. before the expiration of the ’968 Patent in January 2025. Since Testim and XIAFLEX for Dupuytren’s are currently our only products, the introduction of a generic version to Testim or Abbot’s AndroGel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to successfully execute our business strategy to maximize the value of Testim as we continue the commercialization of XIAFLEX for Dupuytren’s. Enacted in March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the associated reconciliation bill include provisions covering biological product exclusivity periods and a specific reimbursement methodology for biosimilars. As a new biological product, we expect that XIAFLEX will be eligible for 12 years of marketing exclusivity from the date of its approval by the FDA (although this could change as the regulations are enacted). The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act also establishes an abbreviated licensure pathway for products that are biosimilar to or interchangeable with FDA-approved biological products, such as XIAFLEX. As a result, we could face competition from other pharmaceutical companies that develop biosimilar versions of our biological product XIAFLEX that do not infringe our patents or other proprietary rights. Similar legislation has also been adopted in the EU. Inventories produced during a launch period may not be needed and could result in additional charges for excess inventories. Predicting demand for a new product that is designed to change a treatment paradigm can be very difficult. We must balance between ensuring adequate supply of product and the possibility that inventory produced will expire prior to being sold. With a wide variety of sales curves possible, we decided to ensure that we would not run out of stock during the XIAFLEX launch, even in the most aggressive of all scenarios. Prior to approval and launch of XIAFLEX, we produced finished packaged inventory sufficient to meet a significant demand. In 2010, we concluded that $3.9 million of this inventory may expire prior to its expected sale and charged this cost to Cost of goods sold for 2010. During 2011, $2.8 million of this reserve was utilized in the physical disposal of such expiring inventory. While we believe that potential additional potential obsolescence was not probable, as of December 31, 2011, it is possible that we may be required, in future periods, to record additional charges for additional excess inventories given the limited historical information with the recent launch of XIAFLEX. 29 We make business decisions based on forecasts of future sales of our products and product candidates that may be inaccurate. Our market estimates are based on many assumptions, including, but not limited to, reliance on external market research, our own internal research, population estimates, estimates of disease diagnostic rates, treatment trends, and market estimates by third parties. Any of these assumptions can materially impact our forecasts and we cannot assure you that the assumptions are accurate. If the market for any of our products or product candidates is less than this data would suggest, the potential sales for the product or product candidate in question could be adversely affected. If third-party payors do not adequately reimburse customers for our products or any of our product candidates that are approved for marketing, they might not be used or purchased, and our revenues and profits will not grow. Our revenues and profits depend heavily upon the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement for the use of our products, and any of our product candidates that are approved for marketing, from third-party healthcare and state and federal government payors, both in the U.S. and in foreign markets. Reimbursement by a third-party payor may depend upon a number of factors, including the third-party payor’s determination the product is: • competitively priced; • safe, effective and medically necessary; • appropriate for the specific patient; • cost-effective; and • neither experimental nor investigational. Since reimbursement approval for a product is required from third-party and government payors, seeking this approval, particularly when seeking approval for a preferred form of reimbursement over other competitive products, is a time-consuming and costly process. Third-party payors may require cost-benefit analysis data from us in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of any product we might bring to market. For any individual third-party payor, we may not be able to provide data sufficient to gain reimbursement on a basis similar or preferred to competitive products or at all. If reimbursement is approved, it may be at prices below that which we believe to be appropriate. Once reimbursement at an agreed level is approved by a third-party payor, we may lose that reimbursement entirely or we may lose the similar or better reimbursement we receive compared to competitive products. As reimbursement is often approved for a period of time, this risk is greater at the end of the time period, if any, for which the reimbursement was approved. In November 2011, the CMS released payment rates for CPT codes to be used with XIAFLEX for the treatment of adult Dupuytren’s patients with a palpable cord beginning January 1, 2012. The CPT codes will apply to the procedures only, and leave in place the separate XIAFLEX specific J code for reimbursement of the product that was effective January 1, 2011. The CPT codes, 20527 for the XIAFLEX injection procedure and 26341 for the finger extension or manipulation procedure, and J code, J0775, are used by physicians to identify XIAFLEX when billing to Medicare, Medicaid and commercial health plans for reimbursement. Failure of the existence of the XIAFLEX-specific J code and CPT codes to spur demand may have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, physicians may perceive the reimbursement levels associated with the XIAFLEX-specific J code and CPT codes to be inadequate, which could affect the use of such codes by physicians and have a material adverse effect on our business. If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities. The commercialization of our products and the clinical testing, manufacture and commercialization of our product candidates, if approved, involves significant exposure to product liability claims. We have clinical trial and product liability insurance that covers our products and the clinical trials of our product candidates that we 30 believe is adequate in both scope and amount and has been placed with what we believe to be reputable insurers. We are self-insured for the first $1.0 million of liability under these policies. Our product liability policies have been written on a claims-made basis. If any of our product candidates are approved for marketing, we may seek additional coverage. We cannot predict all of the adverse health events that our products or product candidates may cause. As a result, our current and future coverages may not be adequate to protect us from all the liabilities that we may incur. If losses from product liability claims exceed our insurance coverage, we may incur substantial liabilities that exceed our financial resources. In addition, we may not be able to maintain our clinical trial insurance or product liability insurance at an acceptable cost, if at all, and this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential claims or losses. If we are required to pay a product liability claim, we may not have sufficient financial resources and our business and results of operations may be harmed. Whether or not we are ultimately successful in product liability litigation, such litigation could also consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources, and might result in adverse publicity, all of which would impair our business. Additionally, we enter into various agreements where we indemnify third parties such as manufacturers, investigators and collaborative partners for certain product liability claims related to our products. These indemnification obligations may require us to pay significant sums of money for claims that are covered by these indemnifications. Testim competes in a very competitive market, and if we are unable to compete effectively with the other companies that produce products for the treatment of urologic or sexual health disorders, our ability to generate revenues will be limited. The TRT market is highly competitive. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to grow our prescription volume and protect our share of the market from the competition. Potential competitors in North America, Europe and elsewhere include major pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions and government agencies. Other pharmaceutical companies may develop generic versions of Testim or any products that compete with Testim that do not infringe our patents or other proprietary rights, and, as a result, our business may be adversely affected. For example, because the ingredients of Testim are commercially available to third parties, it is possible that competitors may design formulations, propose dosages or develop methods of administration that would be outside the scope of the claims of one or more, or of all, of the patent rights that we in-license. This would enable their products to effectively compete with Testim. Governmental and other pressures to reduce pharmaceutical costs may result in physicians writing prescriptions for these generic products. The strategies that we deploy to make Testim price-competitive with lower cost generic products may reduce our profit margins on Testim significantly. Consequently, increased competition from the sale of competing generic pharmaceutical products could cause a material decrease in revenue from Testim and adversely affect our business. Increased competition from the sale of competing generic pharmaceutical products could cause a material decrease in revenue from Testim. In addition to potential generic competition, two additional competing TRT products were launched in the U.S. in the first quarter of 2011 and several other pharmaceutical companies have TRT products in development that may be approved for marketing in the U.S. and the rest of the world. For a discussion of competition in the TRT market, see “Competition – TRT Market Competition” in Part I, Item 1 above. If testosterone replacement therapies are perceived, or are found, to create health risks, our sales of Testim may decrease and our operations may be harmed. Publications have, from time to time, suggested potential health risks associated with TRT. Potential health risks are described in various articles, including a 2002 article published in Endocrine Practice and a 1999 article published in the International Journal of Andrology. The potential health risks detailed are fluid retention, sleep apnea, breast tenderness or enlargement, increased red blood cells, development of clinical prostate disease, including prostate cancer, increased cardiovascular disease risk and the suppression of sperm production. In April 2009, the FDA informed the Company that it had become aware, through spontaneous post-marketing adverse event reports and peer-reviewed biomedical literature, of cases of secondary exposure of children to testosterone due to drug transfer (transference) from adult males using testosterone gel drug products. The FDA considered 31 this information to be “new safety information” and requested changes to the prescribing information for Testim, including a “boxed warning”, which is used to highlight warning information that is especially important to the prescriber. The FDA also required a REMS that includes assessments and a Medication Guide to inform patients. It is possible that studies on the effects of TRT could demonstrate these or other health risks. This, as well as negative publicity about the risks of hormone replacement therapy, including TRT, could adversely affect patient or prescriber attitudes and impact Testim sales. These factors could adversely affect our business. International commercialization of our products and our product candidates faces significant obstacles. We may commercialize some of our products, and product candidates, if approved, internationally on our own or through collaborative relationships with foreign partners. Our foreign regulatory, clinical and commercial resources are limited, and accordingly our ability to expand our business outside of the U.S. on our own is limited. We may not be able to enter into collaboration agreements with appropriate partners for important foreign markets on acceptable terms, or at all. Future and current collaborations with foreign partners may not be effective or profitable for us. Any international commercialization may carry risks that we do not foresee due to our limited international resources. Risks Related to the Manufacture of XIAFLEX We have limited experience in manufacturing pharmaceutical and biologic products and may encounter difficulties in the manufacture of the active ingredient of XIAFLEX at our facilities in Horsham, Pennsylvania which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or delay or disrupt manufacture of XIAFLEX. The manufacture of pharmaceutical and biologic products requires significant expertise and capital investment. Although we leased our facilities in Horsham in order to have direct control over the manufacturing of the active ingredient of XIAFLEX, for which we are the sole supplier, we have limited experience in manufacturing XIAFLEX or any other pharmaceutical product. Biologics, such as XIAFLEX, require processing steps that are highly complex and generally more difficult than those required for most chemical pharmaceuticals. We may encounter difficulties with the manufacture of the active ingredient of XIAFLEX, which could delay or disrupt our manufacture of XIAFLEX, require write-offs which may affect our financial results, result in product recalls or product liability claims or otherwise materially affect our results of operations. These problems with manufacturing may include: • our ability to develop, implement and improve our internal manufacturing capability; • difficulties with production and yields, including the viability of the working cell bank and cell growth at lower than expected levels, scale-up and achieving adequate capacity for such supply; • adequately aligning production and inventory with sales; • availability of raw materials and supplies at a commercially reasonable price or at all; • contamination issues; • equipment failures; • issues with quality control and assurance; • shortages of qualified personnel; • compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations; and • lack of capital funding. Furthermore, our manufacturing operations expose us to a variety of significant risks, including: • product defects and potential product liability claims; • contamination of product or product loss; 32 • environmental liabilities or claims resulting from our production process or contamination at our Horsham facilities; • sudden loss of inventory; • reduction of the commercialization payments owed by Pfizer under our agreement and Pfizer gaining the right to engage a third party manufacturer for XIAFLEX; • termination by any of our licensees of its license agreement for breach of contract; and • inability to manufacture products at a cost that is competitive with third party manufacturing operations, below the prices at which we are contractually obligated to supply to our partners or consistent with our costs of goods expectations. If we are unable to maintain regulatory approval for XIAFLEX, we may not have an alternate use for our Horsham facilities but will be required to make payments under our lease. We have entered into leases for our facilities in Horsham, the first of which expires on January 1, 2017. If we are unable to maintain regulatory approval for XIAFLEX for Dupuytren’s, we may not have an alternate use for the Horsham facilities but will be required to make payments under our leases. As of December 31, 2011, the total future minimum lease payments of these leases during their initial noncancellable terms are approximately $22.6 million. Our Horsham facilities are subject to regulatory oversight, which may delay or disrupt our development and commercialization efforts for XIAFLEX. We must ensure that all of the processes, methods, equipment and facilities employed in the manufacture of XIAFLEX at our Horsham facility are compliant with the current cGMP requirements. The cGMP requirements govern quality control of the manufacturing process and documentation policies and procedures. Compliance with cGMP requires record keeping and quality control to assure that the clinical and commercial product meets applicable specifications and other requirements. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we may not be permitted to sell our products or may be limited in the jurisdictions in which we are permitted to sell them. Our manufacturing facilities are subject to inspection by regulatory agencies at any time. If an inspection by regulatory authorities indicates that there are deficiencies including non-compliance with regulatory requirements, we could be required to take remedial actions, stop production or close our Horsham facilities, which would disrupt the manufacturing processes, limit the supplies of XIAFLEX and delay clinical trials and subsequent licensure. Future noncompliance with any applicable regulatory requirements may result in refusal by regulatory authorities to allow use of XIAFLEX made at our Horsham facilities in clinical trials, refusal of the government to allow distribution of XIAFLEX for commercialization, criminal prosecution and fines, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, prohibitions or limitations on the commercial sale of products or refusal to allow the entering into of federal and state supply contracts. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third-Party Manufacturers, Service Providers, Testing Laboratories and Suppliers Since we currently rely on third-party manufacturers, suppliers and packagers, we may be unable to control the availability or cost of manufacturing and packaging our products, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We currently do not manufacture Testim or any of our product candidates, except for the active ingredient for XIAFLEX for which we are the sole source of supply. JHS fills and lyophilizes the XIAFLEX bulk drug substance that we manufacture and produces sterile diluent. Catalent packages and finishes the XIAFLEX products. Testim is manufactured for us by DPT, under a contract that expires on December 31, 2015, and we have qualified CPL as a back-up supplier. We also rely on third parties for certain packaging services for our products. 33 The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment. JHS, Catalent, DPT, CPL or any other third-party manufacturer or packager may encounter difficulties in production. These problems may include: • difficulties with production costs and yields; • availability of raw materials and supplies; • issues with quality control and assurance; • damage to, or complete loss of, raw materials, supplies or finished product; • shortages of qualified personnel; • compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations; and • lack of capital funding. JHS, Catalent, DPT, CPL or any of our other third-party manufacturers and packagers may not perform as agreed. Likewise, we may not perform as agreed under our contracts with these manufacturers and packagers. In either event, the applicable manufacturer or packager or we, as the case may be, may terminate the applicable agreement, which would adversely impact our ability to produce and sell our products or produce our product candidates for use in clinical trials. Also, any of our third-party manufacturers and packagers could become insolvent or cease operations. The number of third-party manufacturers with the expertise, required regulatory approvals and facilities to manufacture bulk drug substance on a commercial scale is limited, and it would take a significant amount of time to arrange and receive regulatory approval for alternative arrangements. We may not be able to contract for the manufacturing of our products or any of our product candidates on acceptable terms, if at all, which would materially impair our business. Any of these factors could increase our costs and result in our being unable to effectively commercialize or develop our products. Furthermore, if any third-party manufacturer fails to deliver the required commercial quantities of finished product on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, we may be unable to meet the demand for our products and we may lose potential revenues. Because we depend on third parties to conduct certain laboratory tests, clinical trials and other critical services, we have limited control and may encounter delays in our efforts to develop product candidates. We commonly rely on third parties to conduct laboratory tests, clinical trials and other critical services for us. If we are unable to obtain these services on acceptable terms, we may be unable to complete our product development efforts in a timely manner. Also, to the extent we will rely on third parties for laboratory tests and clinical trials, we will have limited control over these activities and may be unable to manage them appropriately. Communicating with third parties can also potentially lead to mistakes as well as difficulties in coordinating activities. Third parties may: • have staffing difficulties; • fail to comply with contractual obligations; • experience regulatory compliance issues; or • undergo changes in priorities or may become financially distressed. These third parties may not complete the tests or trials on our schedule, and the tests or trials may be methodologically flawed, may not comply with applicable laws or may be otherwise defective. We may experience unexpected cost increases that are beyond our control. Problems with the timeliness or quality of the work of a contract research organization may lead us to seek to terminate the relationship and use an alternative service provider. However, making this change may be costly and may delay our trials, and contractual restrictions may make such a change difficult. Our contracts with the contract research organizations on which 34 we currently rely are generally terminable upon 30-days prior written notice. If we must replace any of these contract research organizations or any other contract research organization we may use in the future to conduct our clinical trials, our trials may have to be suspended until we find another contract research organization that offers comparable services. The time that it takes us to find alternative organizations may cause a delay in the commercialization of our product candidates or may cause us to incur significant expenses to replicate data that may be lost. Although we do not believe that the contract research organizations on which we rely offer services that are not available elsewhere, it may be difficult to find a replacement organization that can conduct our trials in an acceptable manner and at an acceptable cost. Our third-party manufacturers are subject to regulatory oversight, which may delay or disrupt our development and commercialization efforts. Third-party manufacturers of our products or product candidates must ensure that all of the processes, methods and equipment are compliant with cGMP, and conduct extensive audits of vendors, contract laboratories and suppliers. If they fail to comply with these requirements, we also may be required to curtail the clinical trials of our product candidates, which are also supplied by these manufacturers, and may not be permitted to sell our products or may be limited in the jurisdictions in which we are permitted to sell them. Manufacturing facilities are subject to inspection by regulatory agencies at any time. If an inspection by regulatory authorities indicates that there are deficiencies, third-party manufacturers could be required to take remedial actions, stop production or close the facility, which would disrupt the manufacturing processes and limit the supplies of Testim or our product candidates. We currently rely on single source suppliers for certain raw materials and services for manufacturing XIAFLEX and for two of the primary ingredients for Testim, and the loss of any of these suppliers could prevent us from selling XIAFLEX or Testim, which would materially harm our business. We rely on third-party suppliers for our supply of raw materials for the manufacture of the XIAFLEX bulk drug substance and for our supply of testosterone and cyclopentadecanolide (“CPD”), two key ingredients of Testim. Certain raw materials are available to us from only limited sources and are sole sourced. We rely on one supplier for lyophilization and sterile diluent and we rely on one other supplier for labeling and packaging of XIAFLEX drug product. Testosterone is available to us from only three sources, and we rely exclusively on one outside source for our supply of CPD. We do not have supply agreements in place with all of our raw material suppliers, including our suppliers of testosterone and CPD. If any of the suppliers stops manufacturing, or if we are unable to procure raw materials or services on commercially favorable terms, or if we are not able to obtain them in a timely manner, we may be unable to continue to produce or sell XIAFLEX or Testim on commercially viable terms, if at all. In addition, the limited number of suppliers of these raw materials and services with whom we do not have supply agreements in place may provide such companies with greater opportunity to raise their prices. Any increase in price for these raw materials or services may reduce our gross margins. Risks Related to Collaborators We are dependent upon our collaborative relationships with third parties to further develop and commercialize XIAFLEX outside of the U.S. There may be circumstances that delay or prevent any of these third parties’ ability to develop and commercialize XIAFLEX. We have entered into agreements with each of Pfizer, Asahi Kasei and Actelion under which we have granted them the right to develop and commercialize XIAFLEX in Europe and certain Eurasian countries, and in Japan, and in Australia, Brazil, Canada and Mexico, respectively. In addition, we may seek to enter into similar arrangements with other third parties with respect to the development and commercialization of XIAFLEX in the rest of the world. We are subject to a number of risks associated with our dependence on our collaborative relationship with these third parties, including: • adverse decisions by a third party regarding the amount and timing of resource expenditures for the development and commercialization of XIAFLEX; 35 • possible disagreements as to the timing, nature and extent of our development plans, including clinical trials or regulatory approval strategy; • lack of alignment between specifications for product that we have agreed to provide to a third party and specifications that have or might be approved by regulatory authorities; • the right of a third party to terminate its collaboration agreement with us on limited notice upon the occurrence of certain defined events; • loss of significant rights if we fail to meet our obligations under the collaboration agreement; • withdrawal of support by a third party following change of that third party’s corporate strategy or due to competing priorities; • changes in key management personnel at a third party that are members of the collaboration’s various operating committees; and • possible disagreements with a third party regarding the collaboration agreement or ownership of proprietary rights, including with respect to inventions discovered under the applicable collaborative agreement. Due to these factors and other possible disagreements with a third party, including disputes over intellectual property ownership, we may be delayed or prevented from further developing, manufacturing or commercializing XIAFLEX outside the U.S., or we may become involved in litigation or arbitration, which would be time consuming and expensive. If a third party were to unilaterally terminate its collaboration agreement with us, we would need to undertake development and marketing activities for XIAFLEX in that third party’s territory solely at our own expense and/or seek another partner for some or all of these activities in that territory. If we pursued these activities in that territory on our own, it would significantly increase our capital and infrastructure requirements, and might limit the indications we are able to pursue and could prevent us from effectively developing and commercializing XIAFLEX. If we sought to find another pharmaceutical company partner for some or all of these activities, we may not be successful in such efforts, or they may result in a collaboration that has us expending greater funds and efforts than the relationship with the terminating third party. In general, we cannot control the amount and timing that our third party partners may devote to our collaboration. We are relying on our third-party partners to obtain regulatory approvals for and successfully commercialize XIAFLEX in the relevant territories. If a third party fails to adequately market and promote XIAFLEX in its territory, we may be unable to obtain any remedy against that third party and sales of XIAFLEX may be harmed, which would negatively impact our business, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity due to reduced milestone and royalty payments under the applicable third party agreement. We do not control the actions of our collaborators, and breaches of our agreements by any of them could affect our business, our regulatory approvals or our reputation. We have agreements in place with our collaborators, including Pfizer, Asahi Kasei, Actelion and BioSpecifics, and we expect that any future collaborators would similarly be engaged under contract. Nevertheless, for reasons that we may not have an ability to foresee or control, any of our collaborators may breach their respective agreements. Depending on its nature, a breach could affect our regulatory approvals for our products and could affect our reputation if the consequences of a breach are imputed to us. We may need to engage in costly litigation to enforce our rights, and we may not prevail in such litigation. A breach by one of our collaborators may lead to termination of the applicable agreement, which, in the case of a license agreement, may affect the scope of our license, such as modifying an exclusive license to a non-exclusive license. Any such breach and its consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. 36 We may not be able to license XIAFLEX for development and commercialization in the rest of the world on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Reaching agreement or agreements with one or multiple partners for development and commercialization of XIAFLEX in areas of the world outside the U.S. and the territories covered by our collaboration agreements with Pfizer, Asahi Kasei and Actelion is uncertain. We may not be able to timely find interested or suitable partners for such collaboration, and any such collaboration may not be as profitable as planned or profitable at all. If we are unable to license XIAFLEX for development and commercialization in areas of the world outside the U.S. and the territories covered by our collaboration agreements with Pfizer, Asahi Kasei and Actelion on commercially reasonable terms of at all, it could have an adverse effect on our ability to commercialize XIAFLEX worldwide and on our financial condition. Risks Related to Business Development Our failure to successfully in-license or acquire additional technologies, product candidates or approved products could impair our ability to grow. We intend to in-license, acquire, develop and market additional products and product candidates so that we are not solely reliant on sales from our currently approved products for our revenues. The success of this strategy depends upon our ability to identify, select and acquire the right pharmaceutical product candidates, products and technologies. We have a limited number of product candidates in our development pipeline. We may not be able to acquire or in-license the rights to additional product candidates and approved products on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. We face extensive competition in the acquisition or in-licensing of pharmaceutical products or small companies to enhance our portfolio of products. A number of more established companies, which have strategies to in-license or acquire products, may have competitive advantages, as may other emerging companies taking similar or different approaches to product acquisitions. In addition, a number of established research-based pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies may acquire products in late stages of development to augment their internal product lines. These established companies may have a competitive advantage over us due to their size, resources and experience. If we are unable to in-license or acquire additional commercial products or product candidates, we may be reliant solely on sales of our currently approved products for revenues. As a result, our ability to grow our business or increase our profits could be severely limited. If we engage in any acquisition, we will incur a variety of costs, and we may never realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. If we undertake an acquisition, the process of integrating any newly acquired business, technology, service or product into our existing operations could be expensive and time consuming and may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may divert significant management attention from our ongoing business operations. Moreover, we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition for a variety of reasons, such as an acquired product candidate proving to not be safe or effective in later clinical trials or not reaching its forecasted commercial potential. We may fund any future acquisition by issuing equity or debt securities, which could dilute your ownership percentage or limit our financial or operating flexibility as a result of restrictive covenants related to new debt. Acquisition efforts can consume significant management attention and require substantial expenditures, which could detract from our other programs. In addition, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions that are never completed. In pursuing our acquisition strategy, we may expend significant management time, consulting costs and legal expenses without consummating a transaction. Risks Related to Regulatory Approval of Our Products and Product Candidates We are subject to numerous complex regulatory requirements and failure to comply with these regulations, or the cost of compliance with these regulations, may harm our business. Our products and product candidates are subject to regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the U.S., Europe and the rest of the world. These regulations govern or affect the research and development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, distribution, safety, storage, record-keeping, approval, advertising, promotion, 37 sampling, marketing and import and export of our products and our product candidates, as well as safe working conditions and the experimental use of animals. Noncompliance with any applicable regulatory requirements can result in refusal of the government to approve facilities for testing or manufacture of products as well as refusal to approve products for commercialization. Noncompliance with any applicable regulatory requirements also can result in criminal prosecution and fines, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, prohibitions or limitations on the commercial sale of products or refusal to allow the entering into of federal and state supply contracts. The FDA and comparable governmental authorities have the authority to withdraw product approvals that have been previously granted. Currently, there is a substantial amount of congressional and administrative review of the FDA and the regulatory approval process for drug candidates in the U.S. As a result, there may be significant changes made to the regulatory approval process in the U.S. In addition, the regulatory requirements relating to the manufacturing, testing, labeling, promotion, marketing and distribution of our products may change in the U.S. or the other jurisdictions in which we may have obtained or be seeking regulatory approval for our products or product candidates. Such changes may increase our costs and adversely affect our operations. Additionally, failure to comply with, or changes to, the regulatory requirements that are applicable to our products or our other product candidates may result in a variety of consequences, including the following: • restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes; • warning letters from a governmental authority; • withdrawal of a product or a product candidate from the market; • voluntary or mandatory recall of a product or a product candidate; • fines against us; • suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals for a product or a product candidate; • suspension or termination of any of our ongoing clinical trials of a product candidate; • refusal to permit import or export of our products; • refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit; • denial of permission to file an application or supplement in a jurisdiction; • product seizure; and • injunctions, consent decrees, or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties against us. Testosterone is listed by the DEA as a Schedule III substance under the Controlled Substances Act of 1970. The DEA classifies substances as Schedule I, II, III, IV or V substances, with Schedule I substances considered to present the highest risk of substance abuse and Schedule V substances the lowest risk. Scheduled substances are subject to DEA regulations relating to manufacturing, storage, distribution, and physician prescription procedures. For example, all regular Schedule III drug prescriptions must be signed by a physician and may not be refilled. Furthermore, the amount of Schedule III substances we can obtain for clinical trials and commercial distribution is limited by the DEA and our quota may not be sufficient to complete clinical trials or meet commercial demand, if any. In addition to federal scheduling, Testim is subject to state-controlled substance regulation and may be placed in more restrictive schedules than those determined by the DEA and the FDA. However, to date, with the exception of the State of New York, which has given testosterone a Schedule II classification, testosterone has not been placed in a more restrictive schedule by any state. Entities must be registered annually with the DEA to manufacture, distribute, dispense, import, export and conduct research using controlled substances. State controlled substance laws also require registration for similar activities. In addition, the DEA requires entities handling controlled substances to maintain records, file reports, follow specific labeling and packaging requirements, and provide appropriate security measures to control against diversion of controlled substances. Failure to follow these requirements can lead to significant civil and/or criminal penalties and possibly even lead to a revocation of a DEA registration. 38 Products containing controlled substances may generate public controversy. As a result, these products may have their marketing rights or regulatory approvals withdrawn. Political pressures and adverse publicity could lead to delays in, and increased expenses for, and limit or restrict the introduction and marketing of our product candidates. For some scheduled substances or any product, the FDA may require us to develop a comprehensive risk management program to reduce the inappropriate use of our products and product candidates, including the manner in which they are marketed and sold, so as to reduce the risk of improper patient selection and diversion or abuse of the product. Developing such a program in consultation with the FDA may be a time-consuming process and could delay approval of any of our product candidates. Such a program or delays of any approval from the FDA could increase our product development costs and may allow our competitors additional time to develop or market competing products. In addition, in many foreign markets, including the countries in the EU, pricing of pharmaceutical products is subject to governmental control. In the U.S., there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental pricing control. While we cannot predict whether such legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted, the adoption of such proposals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and profitability. Failure to obtain pricing approval in a timely manner or approval of pricing which would support an adequate return on investment or generate a sufficient margin to justify the economic risk might delay or prohibit the commercial launch of the product in those countries. As a condition for approval of XIAFLEX for Dupuytren’s, we are required to comply with post-marketing requirements. Failure to comply with these requirements or any future post-marketing requirements, or the cost of compliance with such requirements, may harm our business. The FDA can establish requirements for approved products with which we must comply. For example, the law allows the FDA to require us as the sponsor of a marketing application to conduct and report the results of certain studies or clinical trials for certain purposes (“post-marketing requirements”) if the FDA makes certain findings required by the statute. Failure to report or conduct the studies is considered a violation and can result in enforcement action. Additionally, the FDA can request that we voluntarily conduct studies or clinical trials to address questions or concerns (“post-marketing commitments”). These studies or clinical trials could be time-consuming and costly and the results could have negative effects on our ability to market the product. As a condition of approval for XIAFLEX for Dupuytren’s, the FDA required a single post-marketing requirement and several post-marketing commitments. The post-marketing requirement is to conduct a study to evaluate the potential for antibodies to XIAFLEX to interfere with certain other human proteins that are similar to the proteins in XIAFLEX. No new clinical studies are required as part of this evaluation. The post-marketing commitments are generally related to the manufacturing and testing of XIAFLEX. The results of the required and voluntary investigations could be time-consuming and costly and the results could have negative effects on our ability to market the product. For XIAFLEX for Dupuytren’s and Testim, we are required to implement a REMS. Failure to comply, or the cost of compliance with such REMS or any future REMS, may harm our business. The FDA is authorized to require us as the sponsor of an approved or unapproved marketing application to submit a proposed REMS if the FDA determines that a REMS is necessary to ensure that the benefits of a drug outweigh the risks of the drug. Failure to comply with the requirements of the approved REMS can render the drug misbranded. A violation of a REMS requirement is subject to civil penalties. Complying with the requirements of a REMS can be costly and time-consuming and adversely affect our operations. As a condition of approval for XIAFLEX for Dupuytren’s, the FDA required a REMS. The goal of the REMS is to inform and train healthcare providers about the risks of tendon rupture, serious adverse reactions affecting the injected extremity, and the potential risk of serious hypersensitivity reactions (including the potential for anaphylaxis) associated with XIAFLEX. The REMS consists of a medication guide, a 39 communication plan, and a timetable for submission of assessments of the REMS. The communication plan includes a Dear Healthcare Provider Letter and educational materials (i.e., training guide and procedure training video). On May 7, 2009, the FDA announced that it was requiring the manufacturers of two prescription topical testosterone gels, Solvay S.A. (since acquired by Abbott) and Auxilium, to make changes to the prescribing information and develop REMS for the products. The FDA stated that it was requiring this action after it became aware, through spontaneous post-marketing adverse event reports and peer-reviewed biomedical literature, of cases of secondary exposure of children to testosterone due to drug transfer from adult males using testosterone gel drug products (“transference”). The FDA considered this information to be “new safety information.” We believe that all topical testosterone gels have a potential for transference. Testim’s prescribing information has described the risk and procedures for avoidance of transference since the product was launched in 2003. The changes to the prescribing information for Testim include a “boxed warning”, which is used to highlight warning information that is especially important to the prescriber. The goal of the REMS is to inform patients about the serious risk of transference or secondary exposure associated with the use of Testim and Abbot’s AndroGel. The REMS includes assessments and a Medication Guide to inform patients. The revised prescribing information and REMS for Testim was approved in September 2009. We may not be able to obtain or maintain orphan drug exclusivity for our products or product candidates, and our competitors may obtain orphan drug exclusivity prior to us, which could significantly harm our business. Some jurisdictions, including Europe and the U.S., may designate drugs intended to treat relatively small patient populations as orphan drugs. The FDA granted orphan drug status to XIAFLEX in the U.S. for the treatment of Dupuytren’s and Peyronie’s. Orphan drug designation must be requested before submitting an application for marketing authorization. Orphan drug designation may not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process, but does make the product eligible for orphan drug exclusivity and, in the U.S., specific tax credits. Generally, if a product with an orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first marketing approval for the indication for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan drug exclusivity. Orphan drug exclusivity means that another application to market the same drug for the same indication may not be approved, except in limited circumstances, for a period of up to 10 years in Europe and for a period of seven years in the U.S. Maintaining orphan drug designations and orphan drug exclusivity for XIAFLEX for the treatment of Dupuytren’s and Peyronie’s may be critical to their success. Our competitors may obtain orphan drug exclusivity for products competitive with our product candidates before we do, in which case we would be excluded from that market. Even if we obtain orphan drug exclusivity for any of our product candidates, we may not be able to maintain it. For example, if a competitive product is shown to be different or clinically superior to our product, any orphan drug exclusivity we have obtained will not block the approval of such competitive product. In addition, even if we obtain orphan drug exclusivity for any of our product candidates, a viable commercial market may never develop and we may never derive any meaningful revenues from the sales of these products. We may not be able to develop product candidates into viable commercial products, which would impair our ability to grow and could cause a decline in the price of our stock. The process of developing product candidates, such as XIAFLEX for the treatment of Peyronie’s, Frozen Shoulder syndrome, or cellulite, involves a high degree of risk and may take several years. Developing product candidates is very expensive and will have a significant impact on our ability to generate profits. Product candidates may fail to reach the market for several reasons, including: • clinical trials may show our product candidates to be ineffective or not as effective as anticipated or to have harmful side effects or any unforeseen result; • our inability to enroll patients in clinical trials within the expected timeframes; 40 • our inability to obtain authorization from the FDA or other regulatory authority to initiate clinical trials within the expected timeframes; • product candidates may fail to receive regulatory approvals required to bring the products to market; • adverse events arising out of investigator initiated trials over which we do not exercise control; • our ability to raise any additional funds that we need to complete our trials; • manufacturing costs and delays and manufacturing problems in general, the inability to scale up to produce supplies for clinical trials or commercial supplies, or other factors may make our product candidates uneconomical; • the proprietary rights of others and their competing products and technologies may prevent our product candidates from being effectively commercialized or obtaining exclusivity; and • failure to meet one or more of management’s target product profile criteria. Success in the preclinical and early clinical trials does not ensure that large-scale clinical trials will be successful. Clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. The length of time necessary to complete clinical trials and to submit an application for marketing approval for a final decision by a regulatory authority varies significantly and may be difficult to predict. Currently, there is substantial congressional and administration review of the regulatory approval process for drug candidates in the U.S. Any changes to the U.S. regulatory approval process could significantly increase the timing or cost of regulatory approval for our product candidates making further development uneconomical or impossible. Our product development efforts also could result in large and immediate write-offs, significant milestone payments, incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities or amortization of expenses related to intangible assets, any of which could negatively impact our financial results. Additionally, if we are unable to develop our product candidates into viable commercial products, we will be reliant solely on sales of our currently approved products for our revenues, potentially limiting our growth opportunities. If clinical trials for our product candidates are delayed, we would be unable to commercialize our product candidates on a timely basis, which could materially harm our business. Clinical trials that we may conduct, or that may be conducted by our partners, may not begin on time or may need to be restructured or temporarily suspended after they have begun. Clinical trials can be delayed or may need to be restructured for a variety of reasons, including delays or restructuring related to: • changes to the regulatory approval process for product candidates in those jurisdictions, including the U.S., in which we may be seeking approval for our product candidates; • obtaining an IND, or other regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; • timing of responses required from regulatory authorities; • negotiating acceptable clinical trial agreement terms with prospective investigators or trial sites; • obtaining institutional review board, or equivalent, approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; • recruiting subjects to participate in a clinical trial; • competition in recruiting clinical investigators; • shortage or lack of availability of clinical trial supplies from external and internal sources; • the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive results or poorly executed testing; • failure to validate a patient-reported outcome questionnaire; 41 • the placement of a clinical hold on a study; • the failure of third parties conducting and overseeing the operations of our clinical trials to perform their contractual or regulatory obligations in a timely fashion; • exposure of clinical trial subjects to unexpected and unacceptable health risks or noncompliance with regulatory requirements, which may result in suspension of the trial; and • manufacturing and/or distribution issues associated with clinical supplies. We have three projects currently in clinical development, specifically XIAFLEX for the treatment of Peyronie’s, Frozen Shoulder syndrome and cellulite. Completion of clinical trials for each product candidate will be required before commercialization. If we experience delays in, or termination of, clinical trials, or fail to enroll patients in clinical trials in a timely manner, or if the cost or timing of the regulatory approval process increases, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates will be adversely impacted. In addition, our product development costs would increase and our ability to generate additional revenue from new products could be impaired. Risks Related to Intellectual Property We have only limited patent protection for our products and our product candidates, and we may not be able to obtain, maintain and protect proprietary rights necessary for the development and commercialization of our products or our product candidates. Our business and competitive positions are dependent upon our ability to obtain and protect our proprietary position for our products and our product candidates in the U.S., Canada, Europe and elsewhere throughout the world. We attempt to protect our intellectual property position by filing or obtaining licenses to patents and patent applications and, where appropriate, patents and patent applications in other countries related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business. Our and our licensors’ patents and patent applications may not protect our technologies and products because, among other things: • there is no guarantee that any of our or our licensors’ pending patent applications will result in issued patents; • we may develop additional proprietary technologies that are not patentable; • there is no guarantee that any patents issued to us, our collaborators or our licensors will provide us with any competitive advantage or cover our product candidates; • there is no guarantee that any patents issued to us or our collaborators or our licensors will not be challenged, interfered with, circumvented or invalidated by third parties; and • there is no guarantee that any patents previously issued to others or issued in the future will not have an adverse effect on our ability to do business. If we fail to obtain adequate patent protection for our products, our ability to compete could be impaired. We may not control the patent prosecution, maintenance or enforcement of our in-licensed technology. Consequently, such licensed patents could be held invalid or unenforceable or could have claims construed in a manner adverse to our interests in litigation, which we would not control or to which we would not be a party. If any of the intellectual property rights of our licensors is found to be invalid, this could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Testosterone, the active ingredient in Testim, is off-patent and is included in competing TRT products. In the U.S., the ’968 Patent covers a method for maintaining blood serum testosterone levels for treating a hypogonadal male using Testim and is listed in the Orange Book. The ’968 Patent expires in January 2025. Eight 42 additional U.S. patents issued between 2009 and 2011 covering the use of Testim and have been listed in the Orange Book. They expire in April 2023. Our licensor, FCB, also has filed continuation applications that are pending. We are currently party to patent infringement litigation with Upsher-Smith relating to Upsher-Smith’s intention to market a generic version of Testim prior to the January 2025 expiration of the ’968 Patent. See “Competition–TRT Market Competition–Generic Competition” in Part I, Item 1 above for discussion of the Upsher-Smith Litigation. An adverse outcome in the Upsher-Smith Litigation or any other such potential legal action could result in one or more generic versions of Testim being launched in the U.S. before the expiration of the ’968 Patent in January 2025. Since Testim and XIAFLEX for Dupuytren’s are currently our only products, the introduction of a generic version to Testim or Abbott’s AndroGel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to successfully execute our business strategy to maximize the value of Testim as we continue the commercial launch of XIAFLEX for Dupuytren’s. The standards that the USPTO and its foreign counterparts use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change. Limitations on patent protection in some countries outside the U.S. and the differences in what constitutes patentable subject matter in these countries may limit the protection we seek outside of the U.S. In the U.S., issued patent claims may be broadened, narrowed, or even canceled as a result of post- issuance procedures instituted by us or third parties, including reissue, reexamination, and the new supplemental examination procedure enacted as part of the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act. In addition, laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as would laws of the U.S. Also, some countries will not grant patents on patent applications that are filed after the public sale or disclosure of the material claimed in the patent application. Failure to obtain adequate patent protection for our proprietary product candidates and technology would impair our ability to be commercially competitive in these markets. Accordingly, we do not know the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights or the breadth of claims allowed in any patents issued to us or others. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and technology, which are not protected by patents, to maintain our competitive position. To maintain the confidentiality of trade secrets and proprietary information, we generally seek to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and collaborators upon the commencement of a relationship with us. However, we may not obtain these agreements in all circumstances. Nor can we guarantee that these agreements will provide meaningful protection, that these agreements will not be breached, or that we will have an adequate remedy for any such breach. In addition, adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of this information. Others may have developed, or may develop in the future, substantially similar or superior know-how and technology. In addition, our research collaborators and scientific advisors may have contractual rights to publish our data and other proprietary information, subject to our prior review. Publications by our research collaborators and scientific advisors containing such information, either with our permission or in contravention of the terms of their agreements with us, may impair our ability to obtain patent protection or protect our proprietary information. The loss or exposure of our trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information, as well as independent development of similar or superior know-how, could harm our operating results, financial condition and future growth prospects. Many of our employees and consultants were, and many of our consultants may currently be, parties to confidentiality agreements with other companies. Although our confidentiality agreements with these employees and consultants require that they do not bring to us, or use without proper authorization, any third party’s proprietary technology, if they violate their agreements, we could suffer claims or liabilities. If we breach any of the agreements under which we license development or commercialization rights to products or technology from others, we could lose license rights that are critical to our business. We are a party to a number of license and other agreements by which we have rights to use the intellectual property of third parties that are necessary for us to operate our business. In particular, we have obtained the exclusive right to develop and commercialize Testim pursuant to a license agreement with FCB. FCB may 43 unilaterally terminate the agreement if we fail to make payments under this agreement and this failure continues for a period of 30 days following written notice to us by FCB. If the agreement is properly terminated by FCB, we may not be able to manufacture or sell Testim. We have also obtained exclusive worldwide rights from BioSpecifics to develop, market and sell products, other than dermal formulations labeled for topical administration, that contain BioSpecifics’ enzyme, which we refer to as XIAFLEX, for the treatment of Dupuytren’s, Peyronie’s, Frozen Shoulder syndrome and cellulite. Either party may terminate this agreement in the event of bankruptcy or insolvency by the other party. Additionally, either party may terminate this agreement if the other party is in material breach of its obligations under the agreement which continues for a period of 90 days following receipt of written notice of such material breach. We may terminate this agreement in its entirety, or on a country-by-country basis, on an indication-by-indication basis, or on a product-by-product basis, at any time upon 90 days prior written notice to BioSpecifics. If this agreement is properly terminated by BioSpecifics, we may not be able to execute our strategy to commercialize XIAFLEX for Dupuytren’s or to develop and commercialize XIAFLEX for the treatment of Peyronie’s, Frozen Shoulder syndrome, cellulite or future product candidates utilizing BioSpecifics’ enzyme. If this agreement is properly terminated by us, we will retain a non-exclusive license for these rights. We expect to enter into additional licenses and other similar agreements in the future. These licenses and agreements may impose various development, commercialization, funding, royalty, diligence or other obligations on us. If we breach any of these obligations, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license or render the license non-exclusive, which could make it impossible for us to develop, manufacture or sell the products covered by the license. Disputes may arise with respect to our licensing and other agreements regarding manufacturing, development and commercialization of any products relating to our in-licensed intellectual property. These disputes could lead to delays in or termination of the development, manufacture and commercialization of our products or our product candidates or to litigation and could have a material adverse effect on our business. If our products or our future products infringe the intellectual property of our competitors or other third parties, we may be required to pay license fees or cease these activities and pay damages, which could significantly harm our business. Even though our products and our product candidates may be covered by patents, they may nonetheless infringe the patents or violate the proprietary rights of third parties. In these cases, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights of others in order to continue to sell and use our products and develop and commercialize our product candidates. We may not, however, be able to obtain any licenses required under any patents or proprietary rights of third parties on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we were able to obtain rights to a third party’s intellectual property, these rights may be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors potential access to the same intellectual property. Third parties may assert patent or other intellectual property infringement claims against us, or our licensors or collaborators, with respect to technologies used in potential product candidates. For example, we are aware of competing intellectual property relating to the TRT gel market. While we currently believe that we have freedom to operate in the TRT gel market, others may challenge our position in the future. Any claims that might be brought against us relating to infringement of patents may cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, may cause us to pay substantial damages. We may not have sufficient resources to effectively litigate these claims. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from business operations. In addition, any patent claims brought against our licensors or collaborators could affect their ability to carry out their obligations to us. Furthermore, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us, or our licensors or collaborators, the development, manufacture or potential sale of product candidates claimed to infringe a third party’s intellectual 44 property may have to cease or be delayed. Ultimately, we may be unable to commercialize one or more of our product candidates, our patent claims may be substantially limited or may have to cease some portion of our operations as a result of patent infringement claims, which could severely harm our business. We may have to engage in costly litigation to enforce or protect our proprietary technology or to defend challenges to our proprietary technology by our competitors or collaborators, which may harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. The pharmaceutical field is characterized by a large number of patent filings involving complex legal and factual questions, and, therefore, we cannot predict with certainty whether our licensed patents will be enforceable. Competitors or collaborators may have filed applications for, or have been issued, patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights related to products or processes that compete with or are similar to ours. We may not be aware of all of the patents potentially adverse to our interests that may have been issued to others. Litigation may be necessary to protect our proprietary rights, and we cannot be certain that we will have the required resources to pursue litigation or otherwise to protect our proprietary rights. Competitors or collaborators may infringe our patents or successfully avoid them through design innovation. To prevent infringement or unauthorized use, we may need to file infringement lawsuits, which are expensive and time-consuming. In any such proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours or one that we have licensed is not valid or is unenforceable, may narrowly interpret our patent claims or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover its technology. In particular, if a competitor were to file a paragraph IV certification under the Hatch-Waxman Act in connection with that competitor’s submission to the FDA of an ANDA for approval of a generic version of any of our products for which we believed we held a valid patent, then we could initiate a lawsuit against such competitor claiming patent infringement and defending the relevant patent’s validity and enforceability. Depending on the facts and circumstances, the FDA may stay the approval of the ANDA for a generic version of any of our products for 30 months so long as we initiate litigation against the filer of the ANDA within 45 days of receiving the paragraph IV certification. If a court found that one of our patents was invalid or not infringed, then the FDA would be permitted to approve the competitor’s ANDA resulting in a competitive generic product. In the event that the FDA did not grant the 30 month stay, the FDA would be permitted to approve the competitor’s ANDA; however, we could engage in legal proceedings, such as an injunction, to attempt to preclude the generic competitor from entering the market during the pendency of the patent litigation, but we may not prevail in which event the competitor could enter the market, despite the ongoing patent litigation. For example, in October 2008, we and our licensor, CPEX (FCB’s predecessor in interest to Testim), received notice that Upsher-Smith filed an ANDA containing a paragraph IV certification seeking approval from the FDA to market a generic version of Testim prior to the January 2025 expiration of the ’968 Patent. See “Competition–TRT Market Competition–Generic Competition” in Part I, Item 1 above for discussion of the Upsher-Smith Litigation and Upsher-Smith’s efforts to obtain approval of a generic version of Testim. Risks Related to Healthcare Reform Legislative or regulatory reform of the healthcare system may affect our ability to sell our products profitably, may increase competition and may increase governmental oversight and compliance costs. In both the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could impact our ability to sell our products profitably. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the associated reconciliation bill became law (collectively, the Healthcare Reform Law), and it includes a number of healthcare reform provisions and requires most U.S. citizens to have health insurance. Effective January 1, 2010, the Healthcare Reform Law increased the minimum Medicaid drug rebates for pharmaceutical companies, expands the 340B drug discount program, and makes changes to affect the Medicare Part D coverage gap, or “donut hole.” The law Healthcare Reform Law also revised the definition of “average manufacturer price” for reporting purposes (effective October 1, 2010), which could increase the amount of the Company’s Medicaid drug rebates to states. The Healthcare Reform Law 45 also imposed a significant annual fee on companies that manufacture or import branded prescription drug and biological products, which began in 2011. Substantial new provisions affecting compliance were also added, which may require us to modify our business practices with healthcare practitioners. In addition, the Healthcare Reform Law included provisions covering biological product exclusivity periods and a specific reimbursement methodology for biosimilars. As a new biological product, we expect that XIAFLEX will be eligible for 12 years of marketing exclusivity from the date of its approval by the FDA (although this is subject to change as the regulations are enacted). The Healthcare Reform Law also established an abbreviated licensure pathway for products that are biosimilar to or interchangeable with FDA-approved biological products, such as XIAFLEX. As a result, we could face competition from other pharmaceutical companies that develop biosimilar versions of our biological product XIAFLEX that do not infringe our patents or other proprietary rights. The full effects of the Healthcare Reform Law cannot be known until these provisions are fully implemented and the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services and other federal and state agencies issue applicable regulations or guidance. Furthermore, legislation repealing, replacing or modifying all or part of the Healthcare Reform Law may be enacted or courts may issue rulings suspending, interpreting or otherwise affecting all or part of the Healthcare Reform Law, and these changes could significantly alter any advantages or disadvantages to the Company currently stemming from the Healthcare Reform Law. Specifically, any repeal or modification of the exclusivity for biological products could have an adverse effect on our business. Moreover, in the coming years, additional changes could be made to governmental healthcare programs that could significantly impact the success of our products. The cost of pharmaceuticals continues to generate substantial governmental interests. We expect to experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of our products due to the trend toward managed healthcare, the increasing influence of managed care organizations and additional legislative proposals. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by current and future healthcare reforms. Lastly, the Healthcare Reform Law provisions known as the “Physicians Payments Sunshine Act” require reporting to the federal government of all payments in excess of $10 or that aggregate to $100 annually that we make to physicians, including honoraria, consulting fees, payment for research, gifts, speakers’ fees, fees paid for conducting clinical trials, entertainment, travel, education and royalties. Required data submission includes a recipient’s name, address, medical specialty, amount received, date of payment, type of payment (cash, stock, items, or services), and if the payment is related to a specific drug or medical product. Several states currently have similar laws and more states may enact similar legislation. Reporting and potential public disclosure of these expenses may make it more difficult to recruit physicians for assistance with activities that would be helpful or necessary to our business. Tracking and reporting the required expenses may result in considerable expense. Risks Related to Compliance Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. We are a relatively small company and we rely heavily on third parties to conduct many important functions. As a biopharmaceutical company, we are subject to a large body of legal and regulatory requirements. In addition, as a publicly traded company we are subject to significant regulations, some of which have either only recently been adopted or are currently proposals subject to change. We cannot assure you that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply with all potentially applicable federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations could lead to the imposition of fines, result in our exclusion from participation in state and federal healthcare programs, cause the value of our common stock to decline, impede our ability to raise capital or lead to the de-listing of our stock. 46 Our controls over external financial reporting may fail or be circumvented. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies. In addition, we are required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, to report annually on our internal control over financial reporting. If we, or our independent registered public accounting firm, determine that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, this shortcoming could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results and the price of our common stock could be negatively affected. This reporting requirement could also make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. Any system of internal controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulation concerning control and procedures could have a material effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees and as executive officers. We could be negatively impacted by future interpretation or implementation of federal and state fraud and abuse laws, including anti-kickback laws, false claims laws and federal and state anti-referral laws. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws, false claims laws and physician self-referral laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, Department of Defense and Veterans’ health programs. To date, we have not been challenged by a governmental authority under any of these laws. However, because of the far-reaching nature of these laws, we may be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. Health care fraud and abuse regulations are complex, and even minor, inadvertent irregularities can potentially give rise to claims that the law has been violated. Any violations of these laws could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If there is a change in law, regulation or administrative or judicial interpretations, we may have to change our business practices or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could become subject to false claims litigation under federal or state statutes, which can lead to civil monetary penalties, criminal fines and imprisonment, and/or exclusion from participation in federal health care programs. These false claims statutes include the federal False Claims Act, which allows any person and/or the government to bring suit alleging the false or fraudulent submission of claims for payment under federal programs or other violations of the statute and to share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. Such suits, known as qui tam actions, have increased significantly in recent years and have increased the risk that companies like us may have to defend a false claim action. We could also become subject to similar false claims litigation under state statutes. If we must defend any such action and/or if we are unsuccessful in defending any such action, such action may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are required to report pricing information to the Federal and state governments as part of our participation in programs such as the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, Medicare Part B, and programs run by the Public Health Service, and the Department of Defense. If these reports are not filed in a timely and accurate fashion, we could be subjected to fines and liability under the False Claims Act. We may be exposed to liability claims associated with the use of hazardous materials and chemicals. Our research and development activities and our commercial product, Testim, involve the use of testosterone and large amounts of alcohol which are classified as hazardous materials and chemicals. XIAFLEX, 47 approved in the U.S. for the treatment of Dupuytren’s, and in development for the treatment of Peyronie’s, Frozen Shoulder syndrome and cellulite, is a biologic product. Biologic products may present a manufacturing health hazard due to risk of infection with the bacterial cell line used to produce the product or with potential bacteriophage contamination with the fermentation. Although we believe that our safety procedures for using, storing, handling, manufacturing and disposing of these materials comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from these materials. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages and any liability could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous or radioactive materials and waste products may require us to incur substantial compliance costs that could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. To our knowledge, we have not been the subject of any investigation by any agency or authority for failure to comply with any rules or regulations applicable to hazardous materials or chemicals. We do not maintain specific insurance for the handling of biological, hazardous and radioactive materials. We have contracts with third-party providers for the storage and disposal of hazardous waste and believe that any claims against us in these areas would be the responsibility of these third parties. However, we may be held responsible for these claims despite the fact that we have contracted with third parties for the storage and disposal of hazardous waste. If we are exposed to these types of claims, we could be held responsible for liabilities that exceed our financial resources, which could severely affect our operations. Risks Related to Our Financial Results, Our Need for Additional Financing and Our Stock Price We incurred significant losses since our inception and may not achieve profitability in the foreseeable future. We have incurred significant losses since our inception, including net losses of $32.9 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $408.1 million. We expect to continue to incur substantial expenses and, accordingly, we may continue to incur additional losses. In order to achieve and maintain profitability, we will need to generate significantly greater revenues from Testim and XIAFLEX for Dupuytren’s and from our pipeline. If we fail to achieve profitability within the time frame expected by investors, the value of our common stock may decline substantially. Our future results are unpredictable, and therefore, our common stock is a highly speculative investment. Our future results are unpredictable and our success is dependent upon many factors. Accordingly, you must consider our prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we may encounter. Our stock price may be volatile and you may lose some or all of your investment. For the foreseeable future, if we are unable to grow sales of our products and out-licensing revenues, we will be unable to increase our revenues or achieve profitability and we may be forced to delay or change our current plans to develop our product candidates. Our results of operations and earnings may not meet guidance or expectations. We provide public guidance on our expected results of operations for future periods. This guidance is comprised of forward-looking statements subject to risks and uncertainties, including the risks and uncertainties described in this Report on Form 10-K and in our other public filings and public statements, and is based necessarily on assumptions we make at the time we provide such guidance. Our guidance may not always be accurate. If, in the future, our results of operations for a particular period do not meet our guidance or the expectations of investment analysts or if we reduce our guidance for future periods, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly If our financial resources and sources of liquidity are not sufficient, we may be required to limit, scale back or cease our operations. Based on our current plans and expectations, we believe that our existing financial resources and sources of liquidity will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating requirements until such time as we are profitable. If 48 our existing resources are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may need to borrow money or sell additional equity or debt securities. We may not be able to borrow money on commercially reasonable terms. Moreover, the terms of the sale of any equity or debt securities may not be acceptable to us and could result in substantial dilution of your investment. If we are unable to obtain this additional financing, we may be required to: • reduce the size or scope, or both, of our sales and marketing efforts for Testim, XIAFLEX or any of our future products; • delay or reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our planned development, commercialization or expansion activities; • seek collaborators for our product candidates at an earlier stage than otherwise would be desirable and on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available; and/or • relinquish, license or otherwise dispose of rights to technologies, product candidates or products that we currently market or would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available. We may become subject to stockholder activism efforts that each could cause material disruption to our business. Certain influential institutional investors and hedge funds have taken steps to involve themselves in the governance and strategic direction of certain companies due to governance or strategic related disagreements between such companies and such stockholders. If we become subject to such stockholder activism efforts, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Outstanding options could result in substantial dilution. At the end of the period covered by this Report, stock options to purchase 7,262,718 shares of common stock were outstanding. In addition, as of December 31, 2011, a total of 3,541,968 stock options are available for grant under our 2004 Equity Compensation Plan amended and restated as of June 16, 2011. A total of 1,555,595 of the outstanding options were “in the money” and exercisable as of December 31, 2011. “In the money” means that the current market price of the common stock is above the exercise price of the shares subject to the option. The issuance of common stock upon the exercise of these options could adversely affect the market price of the common stock or result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware law may prevent or frustrate a change in control in management that stockholders believe is desirable. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: • limitations on the removal of directors; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; • the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; and • the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of, and issue, new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a rights plan that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our board of directors. 49 The affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote is necessary to amend or repeal the above provisions of our certificate of incorporation. In addition, absent approval of our board of directors, our bylaws may only be amended or repealed by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote. In addition, Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns or within the last three years has owned 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, Section 203 may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 