Risk Factors” for a discussion of risk factors related to the release of new products. Cardiac. Cardiac tests are used for both risk assessment and diagnosis of cardiovascular disease (“CVD”). The cardiac market is one of the highest growth segments of the broader immunochemistry market, growing at approximately 12% annually. We have a leading share in the market for cardiac tests and were one of the first to introduce a widely adopted testing system for the cardiac proteins Troponin I, CK-MB and Myoglobin. In 2004 we introduced the NT-proBNP test, a rapidly growing cardiac marker used to assist physicians in the diagnosis of congestive heart failure (“CHF”). The combination of rapid and accurate tests for these CVD markers has allowed for rapid diagnosis of cardiac disease and has enhanced the physician’s ability for triage and diagnosis of chest pain in patients. We offer a unique combination of platforms for performing cardiac tests. In the central lab, the Dimension® analyzers, BN™II, and BN Prospec® analyzers offer tests for cardiac risk assessment such as cholesterol, HDL, LDL, apolipoprotein, and high sensitivity CRP. We have been the market leader in the development of high sensitivity CRP testing for cardiac application. In addition to cardiac risk assessment tests, the Dimension® analyzers’ menu also includes the four major cardiac disease tests: Troponin I, CK-MB, Myoglobin for cardiac necrosis, and NT-proBNP for helping in the diagnosis of CHF. In the acute care/near patient setting, we offer cardiac testing on our Stratus® CS Acute Care™ Diagnostic System. Being able to standardize cardiac testing between our laboratory and acute care platforms provides us with a unique position in the market, because it is important that physicians be confident that the results from the acute care platform will clinically match those that come from the laboratory. Plasma Protein. Plasma protein systems test serum, plasma, urine or cerebral spinal fluid to help diagnose diseases, such as coronary heart diseases and rheumatic diseases, as well as to detect disorders, such as tumors, renal failure, inflammation, anemia, gammopathies and malnutrition. In 2005, we introduced outside the United States the first automated nephelometric test to diagnose chronic alcohol abuse. Plasma protein tests are conducted on two types of instrument platforms: (1) routine chemistry/immunochemistry analyzers such as our Dimension® instrument line, and (2) dedicated nephelometers such as our BN™II and BN Prospec® instruments. While a higher proportion of protein tests are run on routine chemistry/immunochemistry systems, the high sensitivity and broad test menu make nephelometers a practical option for customers who need this utility. We are the market leader in the worldwide nephelometric plasma protein testing. Drugs of Abuse Testing (“DAT”)/Therapeutic Drug Monitoring (“TDM”). Drug tests are used to measure the level of therapeutic drugs or presence of drugs of abuse, usually in either blood or urine. TDM tests assist physicians in ensuring that the level of therapeutic drugs patients receive reach 7 appropriate levels to treat a condition, but do not exceed safe ranges in the bloodstream. An example of a TDM application is testing performed on transplant patients to monitor the level of immunosuppressive drugs that they are given. Drugs of abuse tests screen for the presence of illicit substances such as cocaine and marijuana. Because of their range of application, drugs tests are used at a variety of sites, from clinical laboratories to employers’ offices. We are a worldwide market leader in drug testing with a comprehensive menu of tests. We offer drug tests on our Dimension® analyzers. In 2003, we also began marketing the mid- to high-volume V-Twin™ analyzer for the Syva® product line, and in 2004 we began marketing the mid-volume Viva™E analyzer. Vital Scientific N.V. manufactures these systems and we distribute them worldwide. Both are configured to run our Emit®-branded drugs of abuse, therapeutic drugs and serum toxicology assays, as well as specimen validity tests. Vital Scientific is currently developing the Viva-Jr, an easy to use, compact benchtop analyzer dedicated to drug testing, which we expect to begin marketing in the first half of 2006. We also have ready-to-use liquid DAT and TDM reagents for a broad range of other commercially available instrument platforms, which makes Syva an attractive choice for DAT assays among open-system providers. Hemostasis. Hemostasis testing measures a patient’s ability to form and dissolve blood clots, a critical factor in the stabilization of the cardiovascular system. Hemostasis testing can be segmented into routine screening and specialty tests. Routine hemostasis tests are typically performed before and during surgical procedures. Hemostasis testing is essential in post-surgical monitoring of anticoagulant treatments that “thin” the blood to prevent clotting. Specialty tests are performed to further characterize patients with coagulation disorders such as hemophilia, or other congenital or acquired disease states. We offer a broad range of instruments that perform both routine and specialty tests to meet the needs of customers from small hospitals to large reference labs. With revenue of approximately $299 million during 2005, we continued to maintain a global leadership position in hemostasis testing through our commitment to the innovation of new and improved products and services. The hemostasis product line continues to lead competitors in number of new systems placed and in overall reagent usage and market share. We offer our BCS analyzer to high-volume and specialty laboratories and distribute instruments manufactured by Sysmex Corporation to the high-volume routine assay reference lab market and to mid- and low-volume laboratories, such as community hospitals. The PFA 100 analyzer is a fully automated system which determines platelet function by mimicking how platelets adhere, aggregate, and form a plug in the presence of an agonist, either collagen ADP or collagen epinephrine. The result is known as closure time, and has utility as an excellent screen for the bleeding disorder von Willebrand’s disease, as well as new cardiac utility in measuring the functional response of platelets to aspirin. We believe this will be a high-growth market as new anti-platelet therapies are developed and introduced. We expect market growth to come from continued growth in the aging population, the increasing number of surgeries performed, and from new hemostasis tests, that more accurately measure blood clotting and allow for improved patient treatment. Microbiology. We serve the automated and manual Identification/Antibiotic Susceptibility Testing (“ID/AST”) microbiology market with our MicroScan® products. Microbiology laboratories use MicroScan® products to identify infection-causing bacteria such as streptococci and staphylococci, and to determine the minimum concentration of antibiotic, such as erythromycin and ampicillin, necessary to inhibit or kill the bacteria. This information is critical to the optimum management of patient therapy. MicroScan revenues were approximately $165 million during 2005, and were derived almost entirely from the automated portion of the ID/AST market. The market for automated ID/AST testing is approximately $400 million within an overall microbiology market of $1.5 billion. 8 At the core of our product line is a patented dry reagent panel. Available as individual testing components, our combination panels provide both organism identification and the susceptibility information using a broad selection of antibiotics to meet formulary needs and streamlined workflow for operator efficiency. Our MicroScan WalkAway® 40SI analyzer and WalkAway® 96SI analyzer are fully automated systems that utilize a dual technology optic system to process colorimetric and fluorogenic panel types simultaneously. The autoSCAN®-4 analyzer provides semi-automated processing solutions for low-volume testing needs of conventional laboratories. All of our analyzers are supported by our MicroScan Microbiology Systems - LabPro Information Management System and our optional Alert System. Designed by microbiologists, these informatics tools provide customizable functionality to enhance the management of test results. We are a leader in the automated ID/AST microbiology market. We have maintained this position by focusing on higher-growth non-U.S. markets and developing improved capabilities for our instrumentation, software and panels to help laboratories reduce their overall costs. In the United States, we continue to secure business by promoting our conventional technology, which utilizes direct susceptibility testing methods and results in optimal detection of emerging antimicrobial resistance. MicroScan® systems were the first automated systems to detect both vancomycin-intermediate and vancomycin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus during routine testing, demonstrating our leadership in providing highly accurate susceptibility test results. In 2004, we introduced our Synergies plus™ panels, which offer two-hour organism identification and “read when ready” antibiotic susceptibility test results. This new line of panels and software will provide more rapid test results on organisms that are slow to express resistance and will enhance patient outcomes without compromising our reputation for accuracy. Continued evolutions in the microbiology testing market have been driven primarily by advances in automation, new antibiotics, the complexity of various microbes, and the increasing resistance of microbes to antibiotics. Infectious Disease Diagnostics. Infectious disease diagnostic systems test for the presence of infectious microorganisms. This market consists of bacteriology, parasitology and virology testing, including HIV and hepatitis testing. These tests are used not only to diagnose disease, but also as screening tests in order to insure a safe blood supply. We have a niche position in infectious disease diagnostics. Infectious disease testing is one of the largest segments of the diagnostics testing market, but accounted for approximately $86 million or 5% of our revenue during 2005. The microtitre plate (“MTP”) subsegment, manual, semi-automated and fully-automated, makes up approximately one-third of the immunoassay testing in this segment. MTP is a high-throughput, low cost testing method that is ideal for blood banks, large hospitals and commercial laboratories. In the European MTP segment, our BEP systems are used by more laboratories than any other batch analyzer. In addition, we possess a strong intellectual property position for HIV-O, a variant of HIV. Due to the prevalence of HIV-O, any future HIV testing platform will need to include HIV-O to offer comprehensive HIV testing capability. We continue to invest in expanded test menu capabilities for our existing instrument line to allow us to better serve the high-volume blood bank market. These instruments have met with positive acceptance by a number of European and Asian blood banks. 9 Sales and Marketing We have a global customer management organization that includes elements beyond traditional sales representatives and marketing personnel, such as healthcare consultants, clinical quality initiatives managers, field service engineers, national accounts/group purchasing organization management, integrated delivery networks management, inside sales, clinical application specialists, customer service representatives, technical assistance, customer operations, pricing analysts and field sales and service management. Our global customer management executives have long tenure in both the clinical diagnostics industry and with our company. Similarly, the experience profile of our customer contact personnel is generally one of long service in the industry and with our company. We utilize a generalist sales force approach, but all countries with significant sales of specific products have specialists who are trained to service specific product lines. Because of the sales volume and market penetration of our chemistry/immunochemistry, microbiology, hemostasis, cardiac risk assessment, protein and therapeutic drug products, most sales representatives, specialists and generalists are familiar with the features and benefits of these products. We use a dedicated health systems sales team in the United States that focuses exclusively on serving the larger hospital networks and reference laboratories, which represent an increasingly important portion of our customer base as the healthcare industry continues to consolidate. Our products are presented to customers through most of the larger group purchasing arrangements serving hospital and reference laboratories. Our health systems sales organization provides overlay support for individual sales representatives. Our key focus is on providing solutions to the challenges our customers face within their laboratories, which are primarily cost pressures, skilled labor shortages and space constraints. We have developed both healthcare solutions and clinical quality initiative organizations to identify and find ways to provide customized solutions for our customers. Among others, areas we focus on include: workflow analysis, improved testing turnaround time, workstation consolidation, patient specimen filing and storage and ways to ensure integrity of patient information. In addition, we provide educational opportunities for our customers through seminars, audio conferences, newsletters and websites. Our customer management organization has a long history and strong reputation for delivering the highest quality customer satisfaction in the clinical diagnostics industry. Research and Development We conduct research and development in the United States and in Germany. Research and development activities are grouped into two primary categories across all product segments: instrument platform development and test menu development. Our instrument platform development efforts are focused on the design of new instrumentation and software that brings increased automation and functionality to clinical laboratories. Customers value broad test menus, quick turnaround of patient samples, integration of multiple laboratory functions, automation of non-value-added activities, minimal space utilization, ease of use and the opportunity to lower operating costs. Our test menu development efforts seek to improve the efficacy of existing products and to develop new tests that extend our existing product offerings. Our research and development teams are skilled in a number of engineering and scientific disciplines including focus areas of chemistry/immunochemistry, microbiology, hemostasis, informatics, applying robotics to sample processing and systems engineering. We develop our products internally using a multifunctional team approach which integrates our internal capabilities of engineering and assay development with regulatory and quality systems, marketing, technical support and manufacturing. Although we continue to develop or license all of our hemostasis reagents and controls, we have sourced 10 new hemostasis instruments through an external instrumentation partner using a similar multifunction approach in recent years. Research and development expense was $141.5 million in 2005, as compared to $134.0 million in 2004 and $117.5 million in 2003. Patents, Trademarks and Licenses We own or have licensed over 2,500 patents in the United States and other countries that relate to our products and business and have also developed brand names and trademarks for our products. We own numerous United States and non-U.S. registered trademarks and service marks and have applications for the registration of trademarks and service marks pending around the world. We also own several United States copyright registrations. In addition, we own a wide array of unpatented proprietary technology and know-how. Further, we license certain intellectual property rights from third parties. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our owned and licensed intellectual property. In each of our business segments, these patents, patent applications, trademarks, copyrights and licenses are, in the aggregate, of significant importance to our business. However, we believe that no single product related patent, trademark or copyright (or related group of patents, trademarks or copyrights) is material in relation to our business as a whole. Competition While the clinical diagnostics industry is highly competitive, there are substantial barriers to entry including: the necessity for significant sales, service and distribution infrastructure; research and development infrastructure that requires engineering and informatics skills necessary to design and commercialize complex instruments as well as the life science skills necessary to develop the diagnostic tests; and the highly regulated environment for our products. We encounter competition from U.S and non-U.S. manufacturers who compete in some or all of the markets we serve. Some of our competitors are large, diversified healthcare companies with substantial resources. Our competitors include Abbott Laboratories, Bayer AG, Beckman Coulter, Becton Dickinson, bioMerieux, Johnson & Johnson, Roche and Diagnostica Stago. We believe that in recent years, the key competitive factors for diagnostic testing products have been quality, service, price and ease of use. For automated and consolidated instrument platforms, menu breadth is of increasing importance. Regulatory Matters Most aspects of our business are subject to some degree of government regulation in the countries in which we operate. In addition to regulations intended to ensure product safety and effectiveness, our business is subject to environment and occupational health and safety regulations. For some products, and in some countries, government regulation is significant and, in general, there is a trend towards more stringent regulation. Our policy is to comply fully with all regulatory requirements that apply to our products and operations. Failure to comply with government regulations can have significant consequences. Governmental regulatory actions can result in the recall or seizure of products, suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for production or sale and other civil, monetary and criminal sanctions. In the United States, the medical device and clinical diagnostic industries have long been subject to regulation by various federal, state and local agencies, primarily regarding product manufacturing, safety, efficacy and labeling. Government agencies in the United States as well as other countries have expressed concern about the costs of healthcare and in some cases have focused attention on the use of diagnostic tests. Regulations in these areas already exist in some countries and may be expanded significantly in the United States and other countries in the future. 11 We devote significant time, effort and expense to address regulatory requirements applicable to our business. Our quality and regulatory compliance training and well established manufacturing practices have consistently allowed us to successfully introduce and maintain the manufacturing and distribution of instrument and reagent products that satisfy regulatory standards as well as our customers’ requirements for quality. Although we are unable to predict the extent to which our business may be affected by future regulatory developments, we expect that our own business would not be disproportionately burdened by future regulation. We believe that the integration we have achieved between our engineering and life sciences capabilities and our substantial experience addressing and accommodating regulatory requirements and restrictions on our operations throughout the world will allow us to continue to develop and introduce new and improved products and enable us to compete effectively within this environment. Raw Materials We purchase raw materials, which include various biological and chemical products, from a variety of suppliers. While some of our principal raw materials are available from multiple sources, we elect to purchase certain raw materials from sole suppliers for various reasons (e.g., quality assurance, cost effectiveness or regulatory approval requirements). Other raw materials that we use are not available from multiple sources. In some cases where there are regulatory requirements relating to the qualification of suppliers, we may not be able to establish additional or replacement sources on a timely basis. While we work closely with our suppliers to ensure continuity of supply, the termination, reduction or interruption in supply of these sole-sourced raw materials could affect our ability to manufacture and sell certain of our products and to achieve anticipated production and sales levels. Employees As of January 31, 2006, we had approximately 6,300 full-time and part-time employees, of which approximately 3,300 were in the United States. The remaining employees were serving at various locations around the world. Our U.S. employees are not represented by collective bargaining groups. We have had no significant difficulty attracting qualified professionals. We consider our relationship with our employees to be very positive. General and Internet Information Dade Behring Holdings, Inc. is a corporation organized on September 23, 1994 under the laws of the State of Delaware. Our principal executive offices are located at 1717 Deerfield Road, Deerfield, Illinois 60015-0778 and our telephone number is (847) 267-5300. This annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and our current reports on Form 8-K, Securities and Exchange Commission Forms 3, 4 and 5 and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, will be made available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our Internet website (http://www.dadebehring.com) as soon as practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Executive Officers of Dade Behring Holdings, Inc. The following is a list of the executive officers of Dade Behring Holdings, Inc. as of January 31, 2006, showing their ages, present positions and offices with Dade Behring and their business experience during the past five or more years. 12 James W.P. Reid-Anderson, 46, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer Mr. Reid-Anderson was elected to the Board of Directors in 2000 and was named Chairman of the Board of Directors in October 2002. Mr. Reid Anderson has served as President and Chief Executive Officer since September 2000. Mr. Reid-Anderson joined us in 1996 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Dade Behring Inc. and became Chief Administrative Officer and Chief Financial Officer in September 1997, responsible for all headquarters functions on the merger of Dade and Behring. In April 1999, Mr. Reid-Anderson was promoted to President and Chief Operating Officer. From 1994 to 1996, Mr. Reid-Anderson worked for Wilson Sporting Goods where he served as Chief Operating Officer and Chief Administrative Officer. In addition, Mr. Reid-Anderson had responsibility for their international unit. He also held financial positions of increasing responsibility at Pepsico, Inc., Grand Metropolitan PLC and Mobil Oil Corporation, with roles based in Europe, Asia and North America. Mr. Reid-Anderson is a fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants and holds a degree with honors from the University of Birmingham in England. John M. Duffey, 45, Chief Financial Officer Mr. Duffey was appointed Chief Financial Officer of Dade Behring Holdings, Inc. in September 2001 and is responsible for finance, legal and investor relations. Mr. Duffey joined us in 1995 as Dade Behring Inc. Vice President, Tax. In January 1997, Mr. Duffey was promoted to Corporate Vice President, Financial Services, having responsibility for Shared Services, Tax and Internal Audit. In May 1999, he was promoted to Corporate Vice President and Controller and became Senior Vice President and Controller in January 2001. Prior to joining us in 1995, Mr. Duffey worked for the Chicago office of Price Waterhouse. Mr. Duffey’s thirteen years at Price Waterhouse included a tour-of-duty in the firm’s Washington D.C. National Office in the Accounting Methods Group. Mr. Duffey is a Certified Public Accountant and holds a B.A. in Accounting from Michigan State University. Dominick M. Quinn, 50, Executive Vice President Mr. Quinn was appointed Executive Vice President of Dade Behring Holdings, Inc. in December 2002. Mr. Quinn is also President, Global Customer Management, of Dade Behring Inc., a position to which he was appointed in January 2002. Mr. Quinn joined us in July 1998 as Dade Behring Inc. Group President, Biology and became President, EMA in March 1999, responsible for all commercial operations within Europe, the Middle East and Africa. In October 2000, he was promoted to President, International, responsible for all commercial operations outside of the U.S. and Canada. Prior to joining us in 1998, Mr. Quinn worked as Global President, Hospital Business, for Mallinckrodt Medical, based in Hennef (Germany), a medical device company. Prior to joining Mallinckrodt Medical in 1982, Mr. Quinn was Controller for Abbott Laboratories’ operations in Ireland. Mr. Quinn earned a Bachelor of Science degree in economics from Cork University in Ireland in 1976. He continued his studies to become a Chartered Management Accountant, and was subsequently awarded a fellowship of the Institute of Chartered Management Accountants (F.C.M.A.). Hiroshi Uchida, 46, Executive Vice President Mr. Uchida was named Executive Vice President of Dade Behring Holdings, Inc. in December 2002. Mr. Uchida is also President, Global Manufacturing Operations, of Dade Behring Inc., a position to which he was appointed in January 2002. Previously, Mr. Uchida held positions as President of North America, President of Asia and Latin America, President of Asia, and Vice President and General Manager for the Asia-Pacific region for Dade Behring Inc., since joining us in 1997. Before that time Mr. Uchida served as a Director with Arthur D. Little, heading the Asia Pacific healthcare practice, and Vice President at Bain Consulting. He holds Ph.D. and M.A. degrees from Harvard University and a B.A. degree from Brown University. 13 Mark Wolsey-Paige, 44, Executive Vice President Mr. Wolsey-Paige was named Executive Vice President of Dade Behring Holdings, Inc. in December 2002. Mr. Wolsey-Paige is responsible for the global research and development function and is also responsible for business development, strategic planning and market research. Mr. Wolsey-Paige was part of the team that formed Dade Behring Inc. through the acquisition of the diagnostic business of Baxter International Inc. in 1994. After the duPont Diagnostics acquisition, Mr. Wolsey-Paige was responsible for marketing and new product development of all chemistry product lines, including Dimension®. In May 2000, Mr. Wolsey-Paige became Senior Vice President, Strategy and Business Development. In December of that year, he also became responsible for legal and corporate research and development. In 2002 Mr. Wolsey-Paige led Dade Behring’s marketing function. Mr. Wolsey-Paige was appointed Senior Vice President, Strategy and Technology for Dade Behring Inc. on January 1, 2003, and now is responsible for research and development, business development and strategic planning. Prior to joining us, Mr. Wolsey-Paige was a consultant at Bain & Company in Boston. Mr. Wolsey-Paige holds a M.B.A. from Harvard University and a B.S.B.A. from Washington University. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Our failure to compete with other manufacturers in the highly competitive clinical diagnostics industry, some of which have greater financial resources than we do, could harm our ability to retain existing customers and obtain future business. The clinical diagnostics industry is highly competitive and we encounter competition from several international manufacturers in both U.S. and non-U.S. markets. Some of our competitors are significantly larger and have greater resources, financial and other, than we do. Moreover, we encounter different competitors in each of our key product lines and we cannot assure you that we will not encounter increased competition in the future that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our profit margins and business approach may be adversely affected by potential healthcare reform. Substantially all of our sales are in the clinical diagnostics industry. Healthcare reform and the growth of managed care organizations have been considerable forces in the diagnostics industry. These forces continue to place constraints on the levels of overall pricing and thus could have a material adverse effect on the profit margins of our products. Such continuing changes in the United States healthcare market could also force us to alter our approach to selling, marketing, distributing and servicing our customer base. In and outside the United States, including Germany and Japan in particular, changes to government reimbursement policies could reduce the funding that healthcare service providers have to spend on diagnostic products, which could have a material adverse impact on our sales and/or profit margin. We make significant investments in research and development, but there is no guarantee that any of these investments will ultimately result in a commercial product that will generate revenues. Our products require the integration of many component systems and processes including electromechanical, information systems and biochemical reactions or assays. Each year we expend significant resources in the development of new products that incorporate these systems. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we spent approximately $142 million on research and development expenses. Notwithstanding these investments, we may be unable to successfully design or develop any or all of these components or to integrate them into viable commercial systems. We might also encounter substantial delays in getting products to market in a timely fashion. If our success in introducing such products is less than we anticipate, we may not be able to recover all of our capitalized new product development costs, and the write down of unrecoverable costs could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. 14 Changes in our business strategy or plans may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. If our business strategy or plans change, whether in response to changes in economic conditions or developments in the diagnostics industry, or otherwise, we may be required to expend significantly more resources than planned to develop and implement any new business strategy or plans. The expense of any such change could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results of operations. Approximately 54% of our sales and a significant portion of our earnings are attributable to operations conducted outside of the United States. The United States dollar value of sales and earnings of these operations varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. Changes in certain foreign currency exchange rates could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet interest and principal obligations on our United States dollar-denominated debt. Our planned hedging of other currencies against the United States dollar may not adequately reduce exposure to currency exchange fluctuation. Our ability to compete depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We own or license over 2,500 United States and non-U.S. patents and have numerous patent applications pending around the world. We own numerous United States and non-U.S. registered trademarks and service marks and have applications for the registration of trademarks and service marks pending around the world. We also own several United States copyright registrations. In addition, we own a wide array of unpatented proprietary technology and know-how. Further, we license certain intellectual property rights from third parties. Our ability to compete depends in part on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our owned and licensed intellectual property. There can be no assurance as to the degree of protection offered by the various patents, the likelihood that patents will be issued on pending patent applications, or, with regard to the licensed intellectual property, that the licenses will not be terminated. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others will not develop around the patented aspects of any of our current or proposed products, independently develop technology or know-how that is the same as or competitive with our technology and know-how or otherwise obtain access to our intellectual property. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our intellectual property and our significant current or proposed products, our revenues and results of operations may be adversely affected. We are subject to regulation by various U.S. federal, state and non-U.S. agencies, which requires us to comply with regulations in the design, manufacture and distribution of most of our products and violation of such regulations could adversely affect us. Most of our products and operations are subject to regulation by the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and various other federal and state agencies, as well as by a number of non-U.S. governmental agencies. FDA regulations require that most of our new products have pre-marketing approval by the FDA, or prove substantial equivalence through a 510(k) notification and also require that most of our products be manufactured in accordance with Good Manufacturing Practices. Some products and operations are also subject to regulation by the United States Drug Enforcement Agency, or DEA, and various other federal and state agencies, including the United States Department of Agriculture, or USDA, as well as by a number of non-U.S. governmental agencies. DEA regulations require that we obtain DEA Registrations for the bulk manufacture and handling of controlled substances, and maintain effective controls against diversion. The USDA regulates the importation of animal-sourced materials and the treatment and handling of animals utilized to derive biological materials used in research or production. 15 Compliance with such regulations substantially increases the time, difficulty and costs incurred in obtaining and maintaining the approval to manufacture and market newly developed and existing products. In addition, government regulatory actions can result in the seizure or recall of products, denial, suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for their production and sale and other civil or criminal sanctions. We are subject to various environmental and occupational health and safety laws and any violation of these laws could result in liability that could adversely affect us. We are subject to worldwide federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and are subject to liabilities and compliance costs associated with past and current handling, processing, storing and disposing of hazardous substances and wastes. Our operations are also subject to federal, state and local occupational health and safety laws and regulations in and outside the United States. This requires us to devote significant resources to maintain compliance with applicable environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations and to manage environmental risks. 