Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s operating strategy and structure may make it difficult to respond quickly to regulatory, operational or financial problems and to grow its business, which could negatively affect the Company’s financial results. The Company operates through firms that report their results to NFP’s corporate headquarters on a monthly basis. The Company has implemented a consolidated general ledger, cash management and management information systems that allow NFP to monitor the overall performance and financial activities of its firms. However, if the Company’s firms delay either reporting results or informing corporate headquarters of a negative business development such as the possible loss of an important client or relationship with a financial services products manufacturer or a threatened professional liability or other claim or regulatory inquiry or other action, NFP may not be able to take action to remedy the situation on a timely basis. This in turn could have a negative effect on the Company’s financial results. In addition, if one of the Company’s firms were to report inaccurate financial information, it might not learn of the inaccuracies on a timely basis and be able to take corrective measures promptly, which could negatively affect NFP’s ability to report its financial results. In addition, due in part to its management approach, NFP may have difficulty helping its firms grow their business. NFP’s failure to facilitate internal growth, cross-selling and other growth initiatives among its firms may negatively impact the Company’s earnings or revenue growth. The Company’s dependence on the principals of its firms may limit its ability to manage its business effectively and profitably. Most of the Company’s acquisitions result in the acquired business becoming its wholly-owned subsidiary. The principals enter into management agreements pursuant to which they continue to manage the acquired business. The principals retain responsibility for day-to-day operations of the acquired business for an initial five-year term, renewable annually thereafter by the principals and/or certain entities they own, subject to termination for cause and supervisory oversight as required by applicable securities and insurance laws and regulations and the terms of the Company’s management agreements. The principals are responsible for ordinary course operational decisions, including personnel, culture and office location, subject to the oversight of the board of directors of the acquired business. Non-ordinary course transactions require the consent of NFP or the unanimous consent of the board of directors of the acquired business, which includes a representative of NFP’s management. The principals also maintain the primary relationship with clients and, in some cases, vendors. Although the Company maintains internal controls that allow it to oversee its operations, this operating structure exposes the Company to the risk of losses resulting from day-to-day decisions of the principals. Unsatisfactory performance by these principals could hinder the Company’s ability to grow and could have a material adverse effect on its business and the value of NFP’s common stock. Further, at times the Company may dispose of firms due to non-performance, the cultural incompatibility of an acquired firm’s management team with the Company, change of business interests of a principal or other issues personal to a principal. Such disposals could also have a negative impact on the Company’s performance and could lead to losses incurred by the Company. The recessionary environment and its impact on consumer confidence could negatively affect the Company. The recent disruption in the global credit markets and the deterioration of the financial markets generally has created increasingly difficult conditions for companies in the financial services industry. Continued volatility and a recessionary environment may reduce the Company’s customers’ demand for its services and could negatively affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Demand for many types of insurance generally rises and falls as economic growth expands or slows. Consumer confidence and consumer spending have deteriorated significantly, and could remain depressed for an extended period. Consumer purchases of the products the Company distributes, such as life insurance, may 21 Table of Contents decline during periods where disposable income is adversely affected or there is economic uncertainty. The tightening of credit in financial markets also adversely affects the ability of customers to obtain financing for the products and services the Company distributes, which could result in a decrease in revenue generated. To the extent the Company’s clients become adversely affected by declining business conditions, they may choose to limit their purchases of insurance coverage or registered investment advisory services, which would inhibit the Company’s ability to generate revenue. Moreover, insolvencies associated with an economic downturn could adversely affect the Company’s business through the loss of carriers, clients or by hampering the Company’s ability to place insurance and reinsurance business. Reduced levels of staffing due to widespread layoffs could also impact the Company’s group benefits sales. If the Company is required to write down goodwill and other intangible assets, the Company’s financial condition and results would be negatively affected. When NFP acquires a business, a substantial portion of the purchase price of the acquisition is allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. The amount of the purchase price which is allocated to goodwill and other intangible assets is determined by the excess of the purchase price over the net identifiable assets acquired. As of December 31, 2008, goodwill of $635.7 million, net of accumulated amortization of $12.1 million, represented 81.0% of the Company’s total stockholders’ equity. As of December 31, 2008, other intangible assets, including book of business, management contracts, institutional customer relationships and trade name, of $462.1 million, net of accumulated amortization of $180.3 million, represented 58.6% of NFP’s total stockholders’ equity. On January 1, 2002, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (“SFAS 142”), which addresses the financial accounting and reporting standards for the acquisition of intangible assets outside of a business combination and for goodwill and other intangible assets subsequent to their acquisition. This accounting standard requires that goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives no longer be amortized but instead be tested for impairment at least annually (or more frequently if impairment indicators arise). Other intangible assets will continue to be amortized over their useful lives. In accordance with SFAS 142, NFP recognized an impairment loss on goodwill and identifiable intangible assets not subject to amortization of $35.0 million, $5.5 million, $5.2 million, $3.1 million and $2.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. On January 1, 2002, the Company adopted SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets” (“SFAS 144”). In accordance with SFAS 144, long-lived assets, such as property, plant and equipment and purchased intangibles subject to amortization, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. NFP recognized an impairment loss on identifiable intangible assets subject to amortization of $6.3 million, $2.4 million, $5.6 million, $5.0 million and $2.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Under current accounting standards, if NFP determines goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, NFP will be required to write down these assets. Any write-down would have a negative effect on the consolidated financial statements. Subsequent to the end of the third quarter of 2008, NFP’s stock price declined below net book value per share. Due to the significant deterioration in the NFP stock price, NFP was required to perform the goodwill impairment test under SFAS 142 during the fourth quarter of 2008. Based upon analysis, NFP concluded that the decline in stock price did not require NFP to recognize an impairment due to the decline in stock price below net book value per share. See also “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies—Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets” found elsewhere in this report. If the stock price remains below the net book value per share, or other negative business factors exist as outlined in SFAS 142, the Company may be required to perform another goodwill impairment analysis, which could result in an impairment of up to the entire balance of the Company’s goodwill. Additionally, significant impairment charges may impact compliance with the financial covenants of NFP’s credit facility. 22 Table of Contents The Company may not resume acquisitions or may be unsuccessful in acquiring suitable acquisition candidates, which could adversely affect the Company’s growth. The Company competes with numerous integrated financial services organizations, insurance brokers, insurance companies, banks and other entities to acquire high quality independent financial services distribution firms. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater financial resources than it does and may be able to outbid NFP for these acquisition targets. If NFP does identify suitable candidates, NFP may not be able to complete any such acquisition on terms that are commercially acceptable to the Company. If NFP is unable to complete acquisitions, it may have an adverse effect on the Company’s earnings or revenue growth and negatively impact the Company’s strategic plan. In the latter part of 2008, NFP suspended acquisition activity (with the exception of certain sub-acquisitions) in order to conserve cash. NFP will continue to reassess the market and economic environment. NFP’s resumption of acquisition activity may be inhibited in light of current conditions in the economy and financial markets, as well as certain restrictions under its credit facility, and there can be no assurance that the Company’s level of acquisition activity and growth from acquisitions will be consistent with past levels. If the Company does not resume acquisitions, its business, earnings, revenue and strategy may be adversely affected. The Company may be adversely affected if the firms it acquires do not perform as expected, which may lead to losses incurred by the Company. Acquisitions involve special risks, including the potential assumption of unanticipated liabilities and contingencies and difficulties in integrating firms. Even if NFP is successful in acquiring firms, the Company may be adversely affected if the acquired firms do not perform as expected. The firms the Company acquires may perform below expectations after the acquisition for various reasons, including legislative or regulatory changes that affect the products in which a firm specializes, the loss of key clients after the acquisition closed, general economic factors that impact a firm in a direct way and the cultural incompatibility of an acquired firm’s management team with NFP. While the Company intends that acquisitions will improve profitability, past or future acquisitions may not be accretive to earnings or otherwise meet operational or strategic expectations. The failure of firms to perform as expected at the time of acquisition may have an adverse effect on the Company’s internal earnings and revenue growth rates, and may result in impairment charges and/or generate losses or charges to its earnings if the firms are disposed. Through December 31, 2008, NFP has completed a total of 263 acquisition transactions, including 45 sub-acquisitions. NFP has also disposed of 24 firms and internally consolidated 13 firms. Through December 31, 2008, NFP has restructured its relationship with the principals of 33 firms due to these factors. Recent economic conditions, factors relating to the Company’s relationship with its principals or other circumstances may lead to restructures or increased dispositions, which may lead to losses incurred by the Company. The Company’s revenue and earnings may be affected by fluctuations in interest rates, stock prices and general economic conditions. General economic and market factors, such as changes in interest rates or declines or significant volatility in the securities markets, can affect the Company’s commission and fee income. These factors can affect the volume of new sales and the extent to which clients keep their policies in force year after year or maintain funds in accounts the Company manages. Equity returns and interest rates can have a significant effect on the sale of many employee benefit programs whether they are financed by life insurance or other financial instruments. For example, if interest rates increase, competing products offering higher returns could become more attractive to potential purchasers than the programs and policies the Company markets and distribute. A portion of the Company’s recent sales of life insurance products includes sales of financed life insurance products. If interest rates increase, the availability or attractiveness of such financing may decrease, which may reduce the Company’s new sales of life insurance products. Further, a decrease in stock prices can have a significant effect on the sale of financial services products that are linked to the stock market, such as variable life insurance, variable annuities, mutual funds and managed accounts. In addition, a portion of the Company’s earnings is 23 Table of Contents derived from fees, typically based on a percentage of assets under management, for the Company’s firms offering financial advice and related services to clients. Further, the Company’s firms earn recurring commission revenue on certain products over a period after the initial sale, provided the customer retains the product. These factors may lead customers to surrender or terminate their products, ending this recurring revenue. A portion of the Company’s earnings is derived from commissions and other payments from manufacturers of financial services products that are based on the volume, persistency and profitability of business generated by the Company. If investors were to seek alternatives to the Company’s firms’ financial planning advice and services or to the Company’s firms’ insurance products and services, it could have a negative effect on the Company’s revenue. The Company cannot guarantee that it will be able to compete with alternative products if these market forces make the Company’s firms’ products and services unattractive to clients. Finally, adverse general economic conditions may cause potential customers to defer or forgo the purchase of products that the Company’s firms sell, for example, to invest more defensively or to surrender products to increase personal cash flow. General economic and market factors may also slow the rate of growth, or lead to a decrease in the size, of the high net worth market and the number of small and medium-size corporations. Further, if the Company’s earnings deteriorate, it is possible that NFP would fail to comply with the terms of its credit facility, which could have a significant impact on the Company. The price of NFP’s common stock may fluctuate significantly, which could negatively affect the Company and the holders of NFP’s common stock. The trading price of NFP’s common stock may be volatile in response to a number of factors, including a decrease in insurance premiums and commission rates, actual or anticipated variations in NFP’s quarterly financial results, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts and announcements by competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments. In addition, financial results may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. If this were to occur, the market price of NFP’s common stock could decrease, perhaps significantly. Any volatility of or a significant decrease in the market price of NFP’s common stock could also negatively affect the Company’s ability to make acquisitions using its common stock as consideration. In addition, the U.S. securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in the last year. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the price of NFP’s common stock, regardless of NFP’s operating performance. In light of current market conditions, the Company’s inability to access the capital markets on favorable terms may adversely affect the Company’s future operations, including continued acquisition activity. On December 9, 2008, NFP amended its credit agreement, dated as of August 22, 2006 (as amended, the “Credit Agreement”). As of December 31, 2008, NFP was in compliance with all of its debt covenants. However, NFP may be unable to satisfy financial covenants in the future, which could materially and adversely affect NFP’s ability to finance future operations, such as acquisitions or capital needs. If the Company’s earnings deteriorate, it is possible that NFP would fail to comply with the terms of its credit facility, such as the consolidated leverage ratio requirement, and therefore be in default under the credit facility. Default under NFP’s credit facility would trigger a default under each of NFP’s convertible note hedge and warrant transactions, in which case the counterparty could designate early termination under either, or both, of these instruments. Default under NFP’s credit facility resulting in its acceleration would, subject to a 30-day grace period, trigger a default under the supplemental indenture governing NFP’s 0.75% convertible senior notes due February 1, 2012. In that case, the trustee under the notes or the holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the notes could accelerate their payment. Due to the existing uncertainty in the capital and credit markets, NFP’s access to capital may not be available on acceptable terms, and this may result in the Company’s inability to achieve present objectives for strategic acquisitions and internal growth. To provide financial flexibility, NFP may seek to further amend the 24 Table of Contents financial covenants of its Credit Agreement; however, there can be no assurance that NFP will be able to secure such amendments or that such amendments will be on acceptable terms. Even if NFP were able to secure such amendments, NFP could experience an increase in borrowing costs. Any disruption in NFP’s access to capital could require the Company to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, reducing or eliminating future share repurchases, dividend payments, acquisitions or other discretionary uses of cash. NFP’s access to funds under its Credit Agreement is dependent on the ability of the banks party to the Credit Agreement to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to the Company if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time. In addition, consolidation of financial institutions could lead to an increased credit risk. NFP’s credit facility contains restrictions and limitations that could significantly restrict the Company’s ability to operate its business. Subject to certain exceptions, NFP’s credit facility contains covenants that restrict the Company’s ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness or guarantees, create liens or other encumbrances on property or grant negative pledges, enter into a merger or similar transaction, sell or transfer certain property, make certain restricted payments or make certain advances or loans. The restrictions in NFP’s credit facility may prevent it from taking actions that it believes would be in the best interest of the Company and its stockholders and may make it difficult for NFP to execute its business strategy successfully, including with respect to completing acquisitions. The credit facility contains financial covenants requiring the Company to maintain certain ratios, including a consolidated leverage ratio. Additionally, a restrictive covenant limits the total balance of notes outstanding to firm principals that are entered into in connection with the over-advancement of management fees. To the extent NFP exceeds its covenant limit on the total balance of notes outstanding pursuant to the over-advancement of management fees, such advances in excess of the limit could impact NFP’s financial results. The Company’s business is subject to risks related to litigation and regulatory actions. From time to time, the Company is subject to lawsuits and other claims arising out of its business operations, including actions relating to the suitability of insurance and financial services products the Company sold to customers and complaints arising out of industry-wide scrutiny of contingent commissions practices. The outcome of these actions cannot be predicted, and no assurance can be given that such litigation or actions would not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. From time to time, the Company is also subject to new laws and regulations and regulatory actions, including investigations. The insurance industry has been subject to a significant level of scrutiny by various regulatory bodies, including state attorneys general and insurance departments, concerning certain practices within the insurance industry. These practices include, without limitation, the receipt of contingent commissions by insurance brokers and agents from insurance companies and the extent to which such compensation has been disclosed, bid rigging and related matters. As a result of these and related matters, including actions taken by the New York Attorney General’s office beginning in April 2004, there have been a number of recent revisions to existing, or proposals to modify or enact new, laws and regulations regarding insurance agents and brokers. These actions have imposed or could impose additional obligations on the Company with respect to the insurance and other financial products the Company markets. In addition, several insurance companies have recently agreed with regulatory authorities to end the payment of contingent commissions on insurance products. A portion of the Company’s earnings is derived from commissions and other payments from manufacturers of financial services products that are based on the volume, persistency and profitability of business generated by 25 Table of Contents the Company. If the Company were required to or chose to end these arrangements or if these arrangements were no longer available to it, the Company’s revenue and results of operations could be adversely affected. During 2004, several of NFP’s subsidiaries received subpoenas and other informational requests from governmental authorities, including the New York Attorney General’s Office, seeking information regarding compensation arrangements, any evidence of bid rigging and related matters. The Company cooperated and will continue to cooperate fully with all governmental agencies. In March 2006, the Company received a subpoena from the New York Attorney General’s Office seeking information regarding life settlement transactions. One of the Company’s subsidiaries received a subpoena seeking the same information. The investigation is ongoing and the Company is unable to predict the investigation’s ultimate outcome. Any changes that are adopted by the Company, the federal government or the states where the Company markets insurance or conducts life settlements or other insurance-related business could adversely affect the Company’s revenue and financial results. In June 2007, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC, approved amendments to the NAIC Viatical Settlements Model Act, or the NAIC Model Act. The amended NAIC Model Act, among other things, prohibits the sale of a life insurance policy into the secondary market for five years from the date of issuance, subject to limited exceptions. In addition, in November 2007, the National Conference of Insurance Legislators, or NCOIL, adopted an amended Life Settlements Model Act, or the NCOIL Model Act, which while similar to the NAIC Model Act has significant differences, including limiting the prohibition on the sale of a life insurance policy into the secondary market to two years from the date of issuance. The Company is unable to predict the effect on the life settlement industry the amended model acts would have if approved in their current forms. The amended models generally are serving as templates for new state proposed legislation relating to life settlement transactions and may have the effect of reducing the number of life settlement transactions generally, which may lead to a decrease in the Company’s revenue. To date, approximately 20 states have introduced proposed legislation based on language of model acts. In 2008, management believes approximately 4% to 7% of the Company’s revenue was derived from fees earned on the settlement of life insurance policies into the secondary market. Should a significant number of states adopt the amended NAIC Model Act or the NCOIL Model Act or other new regulations or practices that could adversely affect the life settlement industry be instituted, the Company’s revenue could be adversely impacted. NFP, however, is unable to quantify the adverse effect any such regulations or practices could have on its revenue and business. NFP cannot predict the effect of any current or future litigation, regulatory activity or investigations on its business. Given the current regulatory environment and the number of NFP’s subsidiaries operating in local markets throughout the country, it is possible that the Company will become subject to further governmental inquiries and subpoenas and have lawsuits filed against it. Further, if NFP were to be the object of litigation as a result of volatility in NFP’s common stock price or for other reasons, it could result in substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could negatively affect the Company’s financial results. The Company’s involvement in any investigations and lawsuits would cause the Company to incur additional legal and other costs and, if the Company were found to have violated any laws, it could be required to pay fines, damages and other costs, perhaps in material amounts. The Company could also be materially adversely affected by the negative publicity related to these proceedings, and by any new industry-wide regulations or practices that may result from these proceedings. Legislative, legal, and regulatory developments concerning financial services products the Company provides may negatively affect the Company’s business and financial results. For example, continuing investigations and proceedings regarding late trading and market timing in connection with mutual funds and variable insurance products could result in new industry-wide legislation, rules or regulations that could significantly affect distributors of financial services products such as itself. Similar to certain mutual fund and insurance companies and other broker-dealers, NFPSI has been contacted by FINRA, and requested to provide information relating to market timing and late trading. NFPSI is cooperating with the regulatory authorities. 26 Table of Contents Although NFP is not aware of any systemic problems with respect to market timing and late trading that would have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position, NFP cannot predict the course that the existing inquiries and areas of focus may take or the impact that any new laws, rules or regulations may have on the Company’s business and financial results. The failure of insurance carriers may impact the Company. In addition, NFP may need to expend resources to address questions regarding its relationship with financial institutions. Any potential defaults by, or even rumors about the stability of, financial institutions such as insurers could result in losses by these institutions. Questions about an insurance carrier's perceived stability and financial strength ratings may contribute to such insurers’ strategic decisions to focus on certain lines of insurance to the detriment of others. Consequently, the potential for a significant insurer to cease writing certain insurance the Company offers its customers could negatively impact overall capacity in the industry, which in turn could have the effect of reduced placement of certain lines and types of insurance and reduced revenue and profitability for the Company. Further, to the extent that questions about an insurance carrier's viability contribute to such insurers’ failure in the market, the Company could be exposed to losses resulting from such insurers’ inability to pay commissions or fees owed. The Company has relationships with many financial institutions, including insurers which are regulated by state insurance departments for solvency issues and are subject to reserve requirements. NFP cannot guarantee that all insurance carriers it does business with will maintain these traditional ratings. The Company may need to expend resources to address questions or concerns regarding its relationships with these insurers, diverting management resources away from operating the Company’s business. Competition in the Company’s industry is intense and, if the Company is unable to compete effectively, the Company may lose clients and its financial results may be negatively affected. The business of providing financial services to high net worth individuals and companies is highly competitive and the Company expects competition to intensify. The Company’s firms face competition in all aspects of their business, including life insurance, wealth transfer and estate planning, corporate and executive benefits, and financial planning and investment advisory services. The Company’s firms compete for clients on the basis of reputation, client service, program and product offerings and their ability to tailor products and services to meet the specific needs of a client. The Company actively competes with numerous integrated financial services organizations as well as insurance companies and brokers, producer groups, individual insurance agents, investment management firms, independent financial planners and broker-dealers. Many of the Company’s competitors have greater financial and marketing resources than the Company does and may be able to offer products and services that the Company’s firms do not currently offer and may not offer in the future. The passage of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act in 1999 reduced barriers to large institutions providing a wide range of financial services products and services. NFP believes, in light of increasing industry consolidation and the regulatory overhaul of the financial services industry, that competition will continue to increase from manufacturers and other marketers of financial services products. The Company’s competitors in the insurance, wealth transfer and estate planning business include individual insurance carrier-sponsored producer groups, captive distribution systems of insurance companies, broker-dealers and banks. In addition, the Company also competes with independent insurance intermediaries, boutique brokerage general agents and local distributors, including M Financial Group and The BISYS Group, Inc. In the employee benefits sector, the Company faces competition from both national and regional groups. The Company’s national competitors include Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc., Aon Corporation, Arthur J. Gallagher & Co., U.S.I. Holdings Corp., Brown & Brown, Inc. and Willis Group Holdings Limited. The Company’s regional competitors include local brokerage firms and regional banks, consulting firms, third-party 27 Table of Contents administrators, producer groups and insurance companies. In the financial planning and investment advisory business, the Company competes with a large number of investment management and investment advisory firms. The Company’s competitors include global and domestic investment management companies, commercial banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, independent financial planners and other financial institutions. There can be no assurance that the Company will compete successfully against its competitors. NFPSI also competes with numerous other independent broker-dealers, including Raymond James Financial, Inc., LPL Financial Services, FSC Securities Corporation, Cambridge Investment Research, Inc., Commonwealth Financial Network, Financial Network Investment Corporation, Walnut Street Securities, Inc., Securities America, and Royal Alliance Associates, Inc. There can be of no assurance that NFPSI will compete successfully against its competitors. Elimination or modification of the federal estate tax could adversely affect revenue from the Company’s life insurance, wealth transfer and estate planning businesses. Additionally, changes in laws and regulations may adversely affect the Company’s business. Legislation enacted in the spring of 2001 under the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001 increased the size of estates exempt from the federal estate tax and phases in additional increases between 2002 and 2009. EGTRRA also phases in reductions in the federal estate tax rate between 2002 and 2009 and repeals the federal estate tax entirely in 2010. Under EGTRRA, the federal estate tax will be reinstated, without the increased exemption or reduced rate, in 2011 and thereafter. As enacted, EGTRRA has had a modest negative impact on the Company’s revenue from the sale of estate planning services and products including certain life insurance products that are often used to fund estate tax obligations and could have a further negative impact in the future. Should additional legislation be enacted that provides for any additional increases in the size of estates exempt from the federal estate tax, further reductions in the federal estate tax rate or other legislation to permanently repeal the federal estate tax, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenue. Proposals for legislation further regulating the financial services industry are continually being introduced in the United States Congress and in state legislatures. Legislation may be enacted that would have a further negative impact on the Company’s revenue. In light of current conditions in the U.S. financial markets and economy, regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. The Company is unable to predict whether any of these proposals will be implemented or in what form, or whether any additional or similar changes to statutes or regulations, including the interpretation or implementation thereof, will occur in the future. Any such action could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. A change in the tax treatment of life insurance products the Company sells or a determination that these products are not life insurance contracts for federal tax purposes could reduce the demand for these products, which may reduce the Company’s revenue. The market for many life insurance products the Company sells is based in large part on the favorable tax treatment, including the tax-free build up of cash values and the tax-free nature of death benefits that these products receive relative to other investment alternatives. A change in the tax treatment of the life insurance products the Company sells or a determination by the IRS that certain of these products are not life insurance contracts for federal tax purposes could remove many of the tax advantages policyholders seek in these policies. In addition, the IRS from time to time releases guidance on the tax treatment of products the Company sells. If the provisions of the tax code were changed or new federal tax regulations and IRS rulings and releases were issued in a manner that would make it more difficult for holders of these insurance contracts to qualify for favorable tax treatment or subject holders to special tax reporting requirements, the demand for the life insurance contracts the Company sells could decrease, which may reduce the Company’s revenue and negatively affect its business. 28 Table of Contents Under current law, both death benefits and accrual of cash value under a life insurance contract are treated favorably for federal income tax purposes. From time to time, legislation that would affect such tax treatment has been proposed, and sometimes it is enacted. For example, federal legislation that would eliminate the tax-free nature of corporate-owned and bank-owned life insurance in certain narrow circumstances was introduced in 2004 and enacted in 2006. Although the effect of the legislation was mitigated as many of the Company’s firms, in line with the life insurance industry generally, modified their business practices in advance of this legislation in order to remain eligible for the tax benefits on such insurance acquisitions, there can be no assurance that the Company’s firms will be able to anticipate and prepare for future legislative changes in a timely manner. In addition, a proposal that would have imposed an excise tax on the acquisition costs of certain life insurance contracts in which a charity and a person other than the charity held an interest was included in the Administration’s Fiscal Year 2006 Budget, but the provision was not ultimately enacted. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 requires the Treasury Department to conduct a study on these contracts, and it is possible that an excise tax or similarly focused provision could be imposed in the future. Such a provision could adversely affect, among other things, the utility of and the appetite of clients to employ insurance strategies involving charitable giving of life insurance policy benefits when the policy is or has been owned by someone other than the charity, and the Company’s revenue from the sale of policies pursuant to such strategies could materially decline. Changes in the pricing, design or underwriting of products and services the Company’s firms sell could adversely affect the Company’s revenue. Adverse developments or volatility in the markets in which the Company operates could lead to changes in the pricing, design or underwriting of products that result in these products becoming less attractive to its customers. For example, the Company believes that changes in the reinsurance market that make it more difficult for insurance carriers to obtain reinsurance coverage for life insurance, including certain types of financed life insurance transactions, have caused some insurance carriers to become more conservative in their underwriting, and to change the design and pricing of universal life policies, which may have reduced their attractiveness to customers. Revisions in mortality tables by life expectancy underwriters could have an additional negative impact on the Company. Regulatory developments also could affect product design and the attractiveness of certain products. For example, in December 2005, the Office of the General Counsel of the New York Insurance Department issued an opinion on certain financed life insurance transactions that led to changes in the design and demand for financed life insurance products generally. Any developments that reduce the attractiveness of products and services could result in fewer sales of those products and services and adversely affect the Company’s revenue. Because the revenue the Company’s firms earn on the sale of certain insurance products is based on premiums and commission rates set by insurers, any decreases in these premiums or commission rates could result in revenue decreases for the Company. The decrease in other fees, such as life settlement and registered investment advisory fees, that the Company’s firms earn may also impact the Company’s revenue. The Company is engaged in insurance agency and brokerage activities and derives revenue from commissions on the sale of insurance products to clients that are paid by the insurance underwriters from whom the Company’s clients purchase insurance. These commission rates are set by insurance underwriters and are based on the premiums that the insurance underwriters charge. Commission rates and premiums can change based on the prevailing economic and competitive factors that affect insurance underwriters. These factors, which are not within the Company’s control, include the capacity of insurance underwriters to place new business, underwriting and non-underwriting profits of insurance underwriters, consumer demand for insurance products, the availability of comparable products from other insurance underwriters at a lower cost and the availability of alternative insurance products, such as government benefits and self-insurance plans, to consumers. 29 Table of Contents NFP cannot predict the timing or extent of future changes in commission rates, premiums or life settlement and investment advisory fees. As a result, NFP cannot predict the effect that any of these changes will have on the Company’s operations. These changes may result in revenue decreases for the Company, which may adversely affect results of operations for the periods in which they occur. While the Company does not believe it has experienced any significant revenue reductions in the aggregate in its business to date due to these occurrences, the Company is aware of several instances in recent years of insurance underwriters reducing commission payments on certain life insurance and employee benefits products. The elimination or modification of compensation arrangements, including contingent compensation arrangements and the adoption of internal initiatives to enhance compensation transparency, may also result in revenue decreases for the Company. Changes in the Company’s accounting estimates and assumptions could negatively affect its financial position and operating results. NFP prepares its financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). These accounting principles require NFP to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of its consolidated financial statements. NFP is also required to make certain judgments that affect the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during each reporting period. NFP periodically evaluates its estimates and assumptions, including those relating to the valuation of intangible assets, investments, income taxes, stock-based compensation, claims handling obligations, retirement plans, litigation and contingencies. NFP bases its estimates on historical experience and various assumptions that NFP believes to be reasonable based on specific circumstances. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Additionally, changes in accounting standards could increase costs to the organization and could have an adverse impact on NFP’s future financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Failure to comply with or changes in state and federal laws and regulations applicable to the Company could restrict the Company’s ability to conduct its business. The financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation. The Company conducts business in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and Canada and is subject to regulation and supervision both federally and in each of these jurisdictions. In general, these regulations are designed to protect clients, policyholders and insureds and to protect the integrity of the financial markets rather than to protect stockholders and creditors. The Company’s ability to conduct business in these jurisdictions depends on the Company’s compliance with the rules and regulations promulgated by federal regulatory bodies and other regulatory authorities. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements could result in actions by regulators, potentially leading to fines and penalties, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation in the marketplace, and in extreme cases, revocation of a subsidiary’s authority to do business in one or more jurisdictions. In addition, NFP could face lawsuits by clients, insureds and other parties for alleged violations of certain of these laws and regulations. State insurance laws grant supervisory agencies, including state insurance departments, broad administrative authority. State insurance regulators and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners continually reexamine existing laws and regulations, some of which affect the Company. These supervisory agencies regulate many aspects of the insurance business, including, among other things, the licensing of insurance brokers and agents and other insurance intermediaries, the handling of third-party funds held in a fiduciary capacity, and trade practices, such as marketing, advertising and compensation arrangements entered into by insurance brokers and agents. This continual reexamination may result in the enactment of new laws and regulations, or the issuance of interpretations of existing laws and regulations, that could adversely affect the Company’s operations or its ability to conduct business profitably. We are unable to predict whether any such laws or regulations will be enacted and to what extent such laws and regulations would affect our business. 30 Table of Contents Although the federal government generally does not directly regulate the insurance business, federal initiatives often and increasingly have an impact on the business in a variety of ways. From time to time, federal measures are proposed which may significantly affect the insurance business, including limitations on antitrust immunity, tax incentives for lifetime annuity payouts and simplification bills affecting tax-advantaged or tax-exempt savings and retirement vehicles. In addition, various forms of direct federal regulation of insurance have been proposed from time to time. NFP cannot predict whether proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if adopted, such laws may have on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operation. Several of the Company’s subsidiaries, including NFPSI, are registered broker-dealers. The regulation of broker-dealers is performed, to a large extent, by the SEC and self-regulatory organizations, principally FINRA and the national securities exchanges, such as the NYSE. Broker-dealers are subject to regulations which cover all aspects of the securities business, including sales practices, trading practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers’ funds and securities, capital structure, recordkeeping and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. Violations of applicable laws or regulations can result in the imposition of fines or censures, disciplinary actions, including the revocation of licenses or registrations, and reputational damage. Recently, federal, state and other regulatory authorities have focused on, and continue to devote substantial attention to the annuity and insurance industries as well as to the sale of products or services to seniors. It is difficult at this time to predict whether changes resulting from new laws and regulations will affect the industry or the Company’s business and, if so, to what degree. Providing investment advice to clients is also regulated on both the federal and state level. NFPSI and certain of the Company’s firms are investment advisers registered with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act, and certain of the Company’s firms are regulated by state securities regulators under applicable state securities laws. Each firm that is a federally registered investment adviser is regulated and subject to examination by the SEC. The Investment Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on registered investment advisers, including disclosure obligations, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, marketing restrictions and general anti-fraud prohibitions. Each firm that is a state-regulated investment adviser is subject to regulation under the laws of the states in which it provides investment advisory services. Violations of applicable federal or state laws or regulations can result in the imposition of fines or censures, disciplinary actions, including the revocation of licenses or registrations, and reputational damage. The Company’s revenue and earnings may be more exposed than other financial services firms to the revocation or suspension of the licenses or registrations of the Company’s firms’ principals because the revenue and earnings of many of the Company’s firms are largely dependent on the individual production of their respective principals for whom designated successors may not be in place. The geographic concentration of the Company’s firms could leave the Company vulnerable to an economic downturn or regulatory changes in those areas, resulting in a decrease in the Company’s revenue. The Company’s firms located in New York produced approximately 10.8%, 9.8%, 10.1%, 9.2% and 12.2% of the Company’s revenue for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company’s firms located in Florida produced approximately 7.8%, 10.8%, 14.2%, 19.2% and 15.4% of the Company’s revenue for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company’s firms located in California produced approximately 8.2%, 9.7%, 11.3%, 9.6% and 11.3% of the Company’s revenue for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Because the Company’s business is concentrated in these three states, the occurrence of adverse economic conditions or an adverse regulatory climate in any of these states could negatively affect the Company’s financial results more than would be the case if the Company’s business were more geographically diversified. A weakening economic environment in any state or region could result in a decrease in employment or wages that 31 Table of Contents may reduce the demand for employee benefit products in that state or region. Reductions in personal income could reduce individuals’ demand for various financial products in that state or region. The loss of key personnel could negatively affect the Company’s financial results and impair the Company’s ability to implement its business strategy. NFP’s success substantially depends on its ability to attract and retain key members of NFP’s senior management team and the principals of the Company’s firms. If the Company were to lose one or more of these key employees or principals, its ability to successfully implement its business plan and the value of NFP’s common stock could be materially adversely affected. Jessica M. Bibliowicz, the chairman of NFP’s board of directors, president and chief executive officer, is particularly important to the Company. Although she has an employment agreement, there can be no assurance that she will serve the term of her employment agreement or renew her employment agreement upon expiration. Other than with respect to Ms. Bibliowicz and many of the principals of the Company’s firms, the Company does not maintain key person life insurance policies. The securities brokerage business has inherent risks. The securities brokerage and advisory business is, by its nature, subject to numerous and substantial risks, particularly in volatile or illiquid markets, or in markets influenced by sustained periods of low or negative economic growth, including the risk of losses resulting from the ownership of securities, trading, counterparty failure to meet commitments, client fraud, employee processing errors, misconduct and fraud (including unauthorized transactions by registered representatives), failures in connection with the processing of securities transactions and litigation. The Company cannot be certain that its risk management procedures and internal controls will prevent losses from occurring. A substantial portion of the Company’s revenue is generated by NFPSI, and any losses at NFPSI due to the risks noted above could have a significant effect on the Company’s revenue and earnings. Failure to comply with net capital requirements could subject the Company’s wholly-owned broker-dealers to suspension or revocation of their licenses by the SEC or expulsion from FINRA. The SEC, FINRA and various other regulatory agencies have stringent rules with respect to the maintenance of specific levels of net capital by securities brokerage firms. Failure to maintain the required net capital may subject a firm to suspension or revocation of registration by the SEC and suspension or expulsion from FINRA and other regulatory bodies, which ultimately could prevent NFPSI or the Company’s other broker-dealers from performing as a broker-dealer. Although the Company’s broker-dealers have compliance procedures in place to ensure that the required levels of net capital are maintained, there can be no assurance that the Company’s broker-dealers will remain in compliance with the net capital requirements. In addition, a change in the net capital rules, the imposition of new rules or any unusually large charge against net capital could limit the operations of NFPSI or the Company’s other broker-dealers, which could harm the Company’s business. The Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively affected by errors and omissions claims. The Company has significant insurance agency, brokerage, intermediary and life settlement operations as well as securities brokerage and investment advisory operations and activities, and is subject to claims and litigation in the ordinary course of business resulting from alleged and actual errors and omissions in placing insurance, effecting life settlement and securities transactions and rendering investment advice. These activities involve substantial amounts of money. Since errors and omissions claims against the Company’s firms may allege the Company’s liability for all or part of the amounts in question, claimants may seek large damage awards. These claims can involve significant defense costs. Errors and omissions could include, for example, 32 Table of Contents failure, whether negligently or intentionally, to place coverage or effect securities transactions on behalf of clients, to provide insurance carriers with complete and accurate information relating to the risks being insured or to appropriately apply funds that the Company holds on a fiduciary basis. It is not always possible to prevent or detect errors and omissions, and the precautions the Company takes may not be effective in all cases. The Company has errors and omissions insurance coverage to protect it against the risk of liability resulting from alleged and actual errors and omissions by the Company and its firms. Prices for this insurance and the scope and limits of the coverage terms available are dependent on market conditions that are outside of the control of the Company. While the Company endeavors to purchase coverage that is appropriate to its assessment of the Company’s risk, NFP is unable to predict with certainty the frequency, nature or magnitude of claims for direct or consequential damages. Although management does not believe that claims against the Company’s firms, either individually or in the aggregate, will materially affect its business, financial condition or results of operations, there can be no assurance that the Company will successfully dispose of or settle these claims or that insurance coverage will be available or adequate to pay the amounts of any award or settlement. The Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively affected if in the future the Company’s insurance proves to be inadequate or unavailable. In addition, errors and omissions claims may harm NFP’s reputation or divert management resources away from operating the Company’s business. Because the Company’s firms’ clients can withdraw the assets its firms manage on short notice, poor performance of the investment products and services the Company’s firms recommend or sell may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company’s firms’ investment advisory and administrative contracts with their clients are generally terminable upon 30 days’ notice. These clients can terminate their relationship with the Company’s firms, reduce the aggregate amount of assets under management or shift their funds to other types of accounts with different rate structures for any of a number of reasons, including investment performance, changes in prevailing interest rates, financial market performance and personal client liquidity needs. Poor performance of the investment products and services that the Company’s firms recommend or sell relative to the performance of other products available in the market or the performance of other investment management firms tends to result in the loss of accounts. The decrease in revenue that could result from such an event could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected if the Company is unable to facilitate smooth succession planning at its firms. NFP seeks to acquire firms in which the principals are not ready to retire, but instead will be motivated to grow their firm’s earnings and participate in the growth incentives that the Company offers. However, NFP cannot predict with certainty how long the principals of its firms will continue working. The personal reputation of the principals of the Company’s firms and the relationships they have are crucial to success in the independent distribution channel. Upon retirement of a principal, the business of a firm may be adversely affected if that principal’s successor in the firm’s management is not as successful as the original principal. As a result of NFP’s short operating history, succession will be a larger issue for the Company in the future. The Company will attempt to facilitate smooth transitions but if the Company is not successful, the Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected. Government regulation relating to the supplemental executive benefits plans the Company designs and implements could negatively affect its financial results. In the Company’s executive benefits business, the Company has designed and implemented supplemental executive retirement plans that use split dollar life insurance as a funding source. Split dollar life insurance 33 Table of Contents policies are arrangements in which premiums, ownership rights and death benefits are generally split between an employer and an employee. The employer pays either the entire premium or the portion of each year’s premium that at least equals the increase in cash value of the policy. Split dollar life insurance has traditionally been used because of its federal tax advantages. However, in recent years, the IRS has adopted regulations relating to the tax treatment of some types of these life insurance arrangements, including regulations that treat premiums paid by an employer in connection with split dollar life insurance arrangements as compensation or loans for federal income tax purposes. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act has affected these arrangements. Specifically, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act includes a provision that prohibits most loans from a public company to its directors or executives. Because a split dollar life insurance arrangement between a public company and its directors or executives is viewed as a personal loan, the Company has faced a reduction in sales of split dollar life insurance policies to the Company’s clients that are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, members of Congress have proposed, from time to time, other laws reducing the tax incentive of, or otherwise affecting, these arrangements. As a result, the Company’s supplemental executive retirement plans that use split dollar life insurance have become less attractive to some of the Company’s firms’ customers, which could result in lower revenue to the Company. The Company’s business is dependent upon information processing systems. The Company’s ability to provide financial services to clients and to create and maintain comprehensive tracking and reporting of client accounts depends on the Company’s capacity to store, retrieve and process data, manage significant databases and expand and periodically upgrade the Company’s information processing capabilities. As the Company continues to grow, the Company will need to continue to make investments in new and enhanced information systems. Interruption or loss of the Company’s information processing capabilities or adverse consequences from implementing new or enhanced systems could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and the value of its common stock. As the Company’s information system providers revise and upgrade their hardware, software and equipment technology, the Company may encounter difficulties in integrating these new technologies into its business. These new revisions and upgrades may not be appropriate for the Company’s business. Further, breaches or infiltration by unauthorized persons of the Company’s network security could cause interruptions in operations and damage to the Company’s reputation. Despite security measures taken, systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, viruses or other disruptive problems. If the Company’s systems or facilities were infiltrated and damaged, the Company’s clients could experience data loss, financial loss and significant business interruption. If that were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. NFP may overestimate management fees advanced to principals and/or certain entities they own, which may negatively affect its financial condition and results. NFP typically advances management fees monthly to principals and/or certain entities they own. NFP sets each principal’s and/or such entity’s management fee amount after estimating how much operating cash flow the firm that the principal and/or such entity manages will produce. If the firm produces less operating cash flow than what NFP estimated, an overadvance may occur, which may negatively affect the Company’s financial condition and results. Further, since contractually NFP is unable to unilaterally adjust payments to the principals and/or certain entities they own until after a three, six or nine-month calculation period depending on the firms, NFP may not be able to promptly take corrective measures, such as adjusting the monthly management fee lower or requiring the principal and/or such entity to repay the overadvance within a limited time period. Additionally, a restrictive covenant under NFP’s credit facility limits the total balance of notes outstanding to firm principals that are entered into in connection with the over-advancement of management fees. To the extent NFP exceeds its covenant limit on the total balance of notes outstanding pursuant to the over-advancement of management fees, such advances in excess of the limit could impact NFP’s financial results. In addition, if a principal and/or certain entities they own fail to repay an overadvance in a timely manner and any security NFP receives from the principal and/or such entities for the overadvance is insufficient, the Company’s financial condition and results may be negatively affected, which could negatively affect the Company’s results of operations. 34 Table of Contents NFPSI relies heavily on Fidelity, its clearing firm, and termination of its agreement with Fidelity could harm its business. Pursuant to NFPSI’s clearing agreement with Fidelity, the clearing firm processes all securities brokerage transactions for NFPSI’s account and the accounts of its clients. Services of Fidelity include billing and credit extension and control, receipt, custody and delivery of securities. NFPSI is dependent on the ability of its clearing firm to process securities transactions in an orderly fashion. Clearing agreements with Fidelity may be terminated by either party upon 90 days’ prior written notice. If this agreement was terminated, NFPSI’s ability to process securities transactions on behalf of its clients could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 