ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors That May Affect Results of Operations and Financial Condition Set forth below are certain risks and uncertainties that could affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and/or stock price. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem less significant also may impair our business operations. We have a history of losses and we may experience losses in the foreseeable future. We have not achieved profitability and we may incur losses for the foreseeable future. In fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, we incurred losses of approximately $76.5 million, $9.3 million, and $22.5 million, respectively. As of September 30, 2008, our accumulated deficit was $323.1 million, which represents 12 our net losses since inception. Although our cash balance is sizable, it may not last long enough for our operations to become profitable. We will need to achieve incremental revenue growth and manage our costs to achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may be unable to sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis thereafter. It is possible that our revenue will grow at a slower rate than we anticipate or that operating expenses will increase beyond our current run rate. Current concern over a potential global economic slowdown could slow customer orders, as well as anticipated revenue growth, and could further delay our prospects for operating profitability. Our cost-reduction initiatives may not result in the anticipated savings or more efficient operations and may harm our long-term viability. Over the past several years, we have implemented extensive cost cutting measures and have incurred significant restructuring charges as we have attempted to streamline operations, improve efficiency, and reduce costs. We expect that we will undertake further restructuring initiatives in the future as we realign our business around areas of strategic focus. Although we believe that it has been and will continue to be necessary to reduce the size and cost of our operations to improve our performance, the reduction in our operations may make it more difficult to develop and market new products and to compete successfully with other companies in our industry. In addition, many of the employees who have been terminated as part of our restructuring activities possessed specific knowledge or expertise that may prove to have been important to our operations and their absence may create significant difficulties. These efforts may not result in anticipated cost savings, making it difficult for us to achieve profitability. These cost reduction initiatives may also preclude us from making complementary acquisitions and/or other potentially significant expenditures that could improve our product offerings, competitiveness or long-term prospects. We derive revenue from only a limited number of products and we do not have a diversified product base. Substantially all of our revenue is derived from the sale of our digital identity systems and products. We anticipate that substantially all of our future revenue, if any, will also be derived from these products. If for any reason our sale of these products is impeded or if we divest existing product lines as part of our ongoing strategic realignment, and we have not diversified our product offerings, our business and results of operations could be harmed. We have reduced our product offerings as part of our prior restructuring initiatives to focus on just our core products and do not expect to diversify our product offerings in the foreseeable future. Our customer base is highly concentrated and the loss of any one of these customers or delay in anticipated orders could adversely affect our business. Our customers consist primarily of medium to large enterprises, governments, system integrators, resellers, distributors, and original equipment manufacturers. Historically, we have experienced a concentration of revenue through certain of our channel partners to customers. In fiscal 2008, Novell accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue. In fiscal 2007 and 2006, two customers (EDS and Novell) each accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue. Additionally, a substantial portion of our total revenue is generated from the governmental sector. In fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, worldwide government business accounted for approximately 20%, 27%, and 28% respectively of total product revenue. We expect future revenue variability in this sector due to fluctuations in government ordering patterns and frequent delays associated with larger programs. Our operating results could be adversely affected if any of the following events occur: •The loss of the above or other significant customers; 13 •The failure of any of our significant channel partners to renew their contracts upon expiration, or the termination by these partners of these contracts; •The divestiture of products or product lines, which could cause the loss of that revenue and the further dependence on remaining customers; or •Delays in orders from governmental agencies. We expect to continue to depend upon a small number of large customers for a substantial portion of our revenue and the occurrence of any of the above events could further extend our reliance on remaining customers. Our quarterly gross and net margins are difficult to predict, and if we miss quarterly financial expectations, our stock price could decline. Our quarterly revenue, expense levels and operating results are difficult to predict and fluctuate from quarter to quarter. It is likely that our operating results in some periods will be below the guidance we have provided, or otherwise not meet investor expectations. If this happens, the market price of our common stock is likely to decline. Fluctuations in our future quarterly operating results may be caused by many factors, including: •The size and timing of customer orders which are received unevenly and unpredictably throughout a fiscal year and may be subject to seasonality relating to the U.S. government's fiscal year and related spending patterns; •The mix of products licensed and types of license agreements; •The effect of generally accepted accounting principles on the timing of revenue recognition; for example, if prices for our products or services vary significantly, we may not maintain vendor specific objective evidence of fair value which could result in deferring revenue to future periods; •The timing of customer payments; •The size and timing of revenue recognized in advance of actual customer billings and customers with installment payment schedules that may result in higher accounts receivable balances; •Changes in financial markets, which could adversely affect the value of our assets and our liquidity; •The relative mix of our license and services revenue, as well as the relative mix of product offerings, which could change in connection with strategic realignment initiatives; •The application of new accounting regulations, which could negatively impact results; and •Changes in currency exchange rates. We have a long and often complicated sales cycle, which can result in significant revenue fluctuations between periods. The sales cycle for our products is typically long and subject to a number of significant risks over which we have little control. The typical sales cycle is six to nine months for an enterprise customer and over twelve months for a network service provider or government. As our operating expenses are based on anticipated revenue levels, a small fluctuation in the timing of sales can cause our operating results to vary significantly between periods. If revenue falls significantly below anticipated levels, our business would be negatively impacted. 14 Purchasing decisions for our products and systems may be subject to delay due to many factors that are outside of our control, such as: •Political and economic uncertainties; •Time required for a prospective customer to recognize the need for our products; •Time and complexity for us to assess and determine a prospective customer's IT environment; •Customer's requirements for customized features and functionalities; •Turnover of key personnel at existing and prospective customers; •Customer's internal budgeting process; and •Customer's internal procedures for the approval of large purchases. Furthermore, the implementation process can be subject to delays resulting from issues associated with incorporating new technologies into existing networks, deployment of a new network system or preservation of existing network infrastructure and data migration to the new system. Full deployment of our technology and products for such networks, servers, or other host systems can be scheduled to occur over an extended period and the licensing of systems and products, including client and server software, smart cards, readers, and tokens, and the recognition of maintenance revenues would also occur over this period. This interaction, thereby can negatively impact the results of our operations in the near term, resulting in unanticipated fluctuations between periods. We invest in securities that are subject to market risk and the recent problems in the financial markets could adversely affect the value of our assets. During fiscal 2008, we reclassified $33.0 million at cost of our investments in certain auction rate securities (ARS) from short-term to long-term investments as the auctions for these holdings effectively ceased with no indication as to when or if these auctions would resume in the future. Given these developments and the resultant consequences of the lack of liquidity for these investments, coupled with other developments in the credit markets in general, we recorded an other-than-temporary impairment on these holdings of $21.2 million, resulting in a carrying value of $11.8 million at September 30, 2008. We hold an additional $3.7 million of ARS in short-term investments, valued at par as of September 30, 2008. These particular ARS investments have had liquidity events recently and we, therefore, expect that these will be called in full and at par within twelve months. We continually monitor all of our ARS investments and evaluate any changes as to impairment factors on a continual basis. ARS are structured to provide liquidity through a Dutch auction process that resets the interest rates paid at pre-determined intervals, generally every 28 days. The auctions have historically provided a liquid market for these securities. Our investments in ARS represent interests in Collateralized Debt Obligations (CDO), Closed-end Mutual Funds, Derivative Product Companies, and Student Loans. Uncertainty in the financial markets has affected the liquidity of our ARS holdings and resulted in a significant increase in the risks related to the ARS investments classified as long-term, specifically the CDO and Derivative Product Companies, and to a lesser degree, the Student Loan holdings. During fiscal 2008, $12.3 million of ARS, specifically the Closed-end Mutual Funds and Taxable Municipals, were called at par. Based on the liquidity provided by these holdings during the year, we continue to classify our remaining Closed-end Mutual Funds holdings as short-term. However, future changes in the market regarding these securities may result in reclassifications and/or revaluations in future periods. Historically, the fair value of ARS approximated par value due to the frequent auction events. However, failed auctions that began in August 2007 have resulted, in most cases, in revised estimates of 15 fair value that are less than par. We have reviewed the ARS investments classified as long-term and have valued these holdings accordingly using a discounted cash flow methodology. While we have used what we believe to be an appropriate valuation model for these securities and have attempted to incorporate all known and significant risk factors into the analysis, we must still make certain estimates and assumptions when assessing the value of the investment portfolio. These estimates are based on market conditions, which are currently in a state of heightened uncertainty. As a result, there is much independent judgment required in deriving these valuation conclusions. Accordingly, assumptions regarding cash flows, liquidity, default and other risks were made as part of management's analysis and valuation of our ARS holdings as of the year ended September 30, 2008. During the fourth quarter, based on an escalation of issues in the credit markets, we determined that the various risks associated with these holdings had increased dramatically, resulting in an additional $17.4 million impairment of ARS, bringing the total year-to-date impairment to $21.2 million. We believe we have made reasonable judgments in our valuation exercise. If the relevant assumptions, estimates, or the related analyses still prove incorrect or, if due to additional information received in the future, management's conclusions could change, we may be required to change the recorded value of these securities, or other securities that make up the investment portfolio. We will continue to carefully monitor these securities and the ARS markets, and work diligently to recover any lost value through all available means. If a liquid market for these securities does not develop, the ARS holdings may require us to recognize additional impairment charges. Any of these events could adversely affect our results of operations and our financial condition. A material change in these underlying estimates and assumptions could significantly change the reported value of the securities and could cause us to take charges for additional write-downs in value. We rely on certain key employees and have faced challenges in the past with employee turnover in senior management. If we are not able to build and maintain a strong management team, our ability to manage and expand our business will be impacted. Employee turnover could adversely impact our revenues, costs and productivity. In recent years, there has been significant and recurring turnover in all levels of management. In March 2008, our Chief Financial Officer, Mark Lustig, announced his resignation, effective in May 2008. In April 2008, Grant Evans became our Chief Executive Officer following the resignation of Thomas Jahn. In August 2008, we hired a new Chief Financial Officer / Chief Operating Officer, Jacques Kerrest. In November 2008, our President, Yves Audebert, was terminated. We may experience further turnover in management in the future and, as a result, we face challenges in effectively managing our operations during these periods of transition. If new key employees and other members of our senior management team cannot work together effectively, or if other members of our senior management team resign, our ability to effectively manage our business may be impacted. Partially due to our restructuring efforts over the past several years, we have become increasingly dependent on a smaller number of employees. If key employees leave ActivIdentity, we suffer loss of productivity while new employees are hired or promoted into vacant positions. The departure of highly skilled key employees sometimes results in a loss of talent or knowledge that is difficult to replace. There are also costs of recruiting and relocating new employees to fill these positions. For example, the recruiting market for experienced operations personnel is very competitive and we may be limited in our ability to attract and retain key operations talent as the need should arise. New employees must learn the ActivIdentity organization, products, and procedures. All of this takes time, reduces productivity and increases cost. The potential adverse impact of employee turnover is greater for situations involving senior positions in the Company and our turnover rate may be higher if key employees decided to leave on their own accord. If turnover increases, the adverse impact of turnover 16 could materially affect our costs, productivity or ability to respond quickly to the competitive environment. The market for some of our products is still developing and if the industry adopts standards or platforms different from our platform, then our competitive position would be negatively affected. The market for digital identity products is still emerging and is also experiencing consolidation. The evolution of the market is in a constant state of flux that may result in the development of different network computing platforms and industry standards that are not compatible with our current products or technologies. We believe smart cards are an emerging platform for providing digital identity for network applications and for the procurement of services from private enterprise and government agencies. A key element of our business model is premised on the smart card becoming a common access platform for network computing in the future. Further, we have focused on developing our products for certain operating systems related to smart card deployment and use. Should platforms or form factors other than the smart card emerge as a preferred platform or should operating systems other than the specific systems we have focused on emerge as preferred operating systems, our current product offerings could be at a disadvantage. If this were to occur, our future growth and operating results would be negatively affected. Additionally, consolidation within this industry has created a more difficult competitive environment and may result in the broader adoption of competing platforms and systems. In addition, the digital identity market has evolving industry-wide standards. While we are actively engaged in discussions with industry peers to define what these standards should be, it is possible that any standards eventually adopted could prove disadvantageous to or incompatible with our business model and product lines. Uncertainty surrounding the Homeland Security Presidential Directive No. 12 may affect sales of our products to government agencies. If our products do not comply with the requirements of Homeland Security Presidential Directive No. 12, we may not be able to sell to agencies that must comply with this Directive. We rely on strategic relationships with other companies to develop and market our products. If we are unable to enter into additional relationships, or if we lose an existing relationship, our business could be harmed. Our success depends on establishing and maintaining strategic relationships with other companies to develop, market, and distribute our technology and products and, in some cases, to incorporate our technology into their products. Part of our business strategy has been to enter into strategic alliances and other cooperative arrangements with other companies in the industry. We are currently involved in cooperative efforts to incorporate our products into the products of others, to jointly engage in research and development efforts, and to jointly engage in marketing efforts and reseller arrangements. To date, none of these relationships is exclusive, and some of our strategic partners have cooperative relationships with certain of our competitors. If we are unable to enter into cooperative arrangements in the future or if we lose any of our current strategic or cooperative relationships, our business could be adversely affected. We do not control the time and resources devoted to such activities by parties with whom we have relationships. In addition, we may not have the resources available to satisfy our commitments, which may adversely affect these relationships. These relationships may not continue, may not be commercially successful, or may require the expenditure of significant financial, personnel, and administrative resources from time to time. Further, certain of our products and services compete with the products and services of our strategic partners, which may adversely affect our relationships with these partners, which could adversely affect our business. 17 We may be adversely affected by operating in international markets. Our international operations subject us to risks associated with operating in foreign markets, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. International sales and expenses make up a substantial portion of our business. A severe economic decline in any of our major foreign markets could make it difficult for our customers to pay us on a timely basis. Any such failure to pay, or deferral of payment, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. During the fiscal years ended September 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006, markets outside of North America accounted for 58%, 59%, and 57% respectively, of total revenue. We face a number of additional risks inherent in doing business in international markets, including: •Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; •Potentially adverse tax consequences; •Export controls relating to encryption technology; •Tariffs and other trade barriers; •Difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; •Laws that restrict our ability, and make it costly, to reduce our workforce; •Changing political conditions; •Exposures to different legal standards; and •Burden of complying with a variety of laws and legal systems. While we present our financial statements in U.S. Dollars, a significant portion of our business is conducted outside of the United States and we incur a significant portion of our expenses in Euros, Australian dollars and British Pounds. Some revenue transactions are denominated in foreign currencies as well. Significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our future operating results. Due to fluctuations in foreign currencies we recorded a loss of $2.0 million in fiscal 2008, a gain of $3.4 million in fiscal 2007, and a gain of $0.2 million in fiscal 2006, on our consolidated statements of operations. We have recorded significant write-downs in recent periods for impairment of acquired intangible assets and goodwill and may have similar write-downs in future periods. We recorded an impairment charge of $35.9 million to goodwill during the quarter ended March 31, 2008, and had previously recorded goodwill impairments in 2005. Due to our declining stock price, we conducted a goodwill impairment analysis and determined the full carrying value of our goodwill was impaired. As of September 30, 2008, we have no goodwill on our balance sheet. We may terminate additional non-core activities in the future or determine that our long-lived assets or acquired intangible assets have been impaired. Any future termination or impairment related charges could have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. As of September 30, 2008, we had $4.2 million of other intangible assets, representing approximately 4% of our total assets. If our estimates of future undiscounted cash flows to be derived from the use of our other intangible assets drop below the carrying value of such assets, an additional impairment charge may be required. 18 Our operating results could suffer if we are subject to intellectual property infringement claims. We may face claims of infringement on proprietary rights of others that could subject us to costly litigation and possible restriction on the use of such proprietary rights. There is a risk that our products infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties. Potential infringement or invalidity claims may be asserted or prosecuted against us and our products may be found to have infringed the rights of third parties. Such claims are costly to defend and could subject us to substantial litigation costs. If any claims or actions are asserted against us, we may be required to modify our products or may be forced to obtain a license for such intellectual property rights. However, we may not be able to modify our products or obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, despite precautions that we take, it may be possible for competitors to copy or reverse-engineer aspects of our current or future products, to independently develop similar or superior technology, or to design around the patents we own. Monitoring unauthorized use and transfer of our technology is difficult and technology piracy currently is and can be expected to continue to be a persistent problem. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the United States. It may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights through litigation, arbitration or other adversarial proceedings, which could be costly and distracting to management and which could put our rights at risk as others may seek to have our rights declared invalid. Additionally, there is no assurance that we would prevail in any such proceedings, or that the recoveries from any such proceedings would exceed our enforcement costs. We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities as a result of inter-company transfer pricing policies. As a multinational organization, we conduct business and are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment and analysis is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision and related tax liabilities. In the ordinary course of a global business, inter-company transactions and calculations result in a variety of uncertain tax positions. Our inter-company pricing policies are subject to audits in the various foreign tax jurisdictions. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, there is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or potential tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire the Company, which could affect the price of our common stock. In July 2008, we adopted a stockholder rights agreement, which is sometimes also called a "poison pill." This agreement has the effect of discouraging a stockholder from acquiring more than 20% of our issued and outstanding common stock without prior approval of our Board of Directors. We are also afforded the protections of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which will prevent us, for a period of three years from engaging in a business combination with a person who acquires more than 15% of our common stock unless our Board of Directors or shareholders' approval is obtained. Defensive measures such as the stockholder rights agreement and Section 203 are expected to have the effect of discouraging coercive hostile takeover attempts where the Board does not support the transaction. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction could deter potential acquirers or prevent the completion of a transaction in which our stockholders could receive a premium over the then current market price for their shares. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have no unresolved staff comments as of the date of this filing. 19 