ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Our failure to compete with other manufacturers in the highly competitive clinical diagnostics industry, some of which have greater financial resources than we do, could harm our ability to retain existing customers and obtain future business. The clinical diagnostics industry is highly competitive and we encounter competition from several international manufacturers in both U.S. and non-U.S. markets. Some of our competitors are significantly larger and have greater resources, financial and other, than we do. Moreover, we encounter different competitors in each of our key product lines and we cannot assure you that we will not encounter increased competition in the future that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our profit margins and business approach may be adversely affected by potential healthcare reform. Substantially all of our sales are in the clinical diagnostics industry. Healthcare reform and the growth of managed care organizations have been considerable forces in the diagnostics industry. These forces continue to place constraints on the levels of overall pricing and thus could have a material adverse effect on the profit margins of our products. Such continuing changes in the United States healthcare market could also force us to alter our approach to selling, marketing, distributing and servicing our customer base. In and outside the United States, including Germany and Japan in particular, changes to government reimbursement policies could reduce the funding that healthcare service providers have to spend on diagnostic products, which could have a material adverse impact on our sales and/or profit margin. We make significant investments in research and development, but there is no guarantee that any of these investments will ultimately result in a commercial product that will generate revenues. Our products require the integration of many component systems and processes including electromechanical, information systems and biochemical reactions or assays. Each year we expend significant resources in the development of new products that incorporate these systems. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we spent approximately $161 million on research and development expenses. Notwithstanding these investments, we may be unable to successfully design or develop any or all of these 14 components or to integrate them into viable commercial systems. We might also encounter substantial delays in getting products to market in a timely fashion. For example, we are currently in the process of launching the Dimension Vista® which involves risks and uncertainties regarding product performance, costs of introduction and support , and customer acceptance. If our success in introducing such products is less than we anticipate, we may not be able to recover all of our capitalized new product development costs, and the write down of unrecoverable costs could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. Changes in our business strategy, plans or systems may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. If our business strategy or plans change, whether in response to changes in economic conditions or developments in the diagnostics industry, or otherwise, we may be required to expend significantly more resources than planned to develop and implement any new business strategy or plans. The expense of any such change could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, implementing new systems in our operations poses execution risks that could adversely affect customer relations and profitability. For example, in early March 2006 we replaced the warehouse management system at our Delaware Distribution Center (“DDC”) with the ultimate goal of providing enhanced capabilities and services to our customers. Initially the implementation fell short of expectations and shipments to a significant number of U.S. and Puerto Rico customers were delayed. We applied additional resources to restore normal product delivery schedules while process changes at the DDC were implemented. Customer service is a key competitive factor in the diagnostics industry. If customer confidence that we can reliably deliver products becomes diminished, establishing new customer relationships and securing contract renewals will become more difficult. Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results of operations. Approximately 54% of our sales and a significant portion of our earnings are attributable to operations conducted outside of the United States. The United States dollar value of sales and earnings of these operations varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. Changes in certain foreign currency exchange rates could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet interest and principal obligations on our United States dollar-denominated debt. Our planned hedging of other currencies against the United States dollar may not adequately reduce exposure to currency exchange fluctuation. Our ability to compete depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We own or license over 2,500 United States and non-U.S. patents and have numerous patent applications pending around the world. We own numerous United States and non-U.S. registered trademarks and service marks and have applications for the registration of trademarks and service marks pending around the world. We also own several United States copyright registrations. In addition, we own a wide array of unpatented proprietary technology and know-how. Further, we license certain intellectual property rights from third parties. Our ability to compete depends in part on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our owned and licensed intellectual property. There can be no assurance as to the degree of protection offered by the various patents, the likelihood that patents will be issued on pending patent applications, or, with regard to the licensed intellectual property, that the licenses will not be terminated. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others will not develop around the patented aspects of any of our current or proposed products, independently develop technology or know-how that is the same as or competitive with our technology and know-how or otherwise obtain access to our intellectual property. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our intellectual property and our significant current or proposed products, our revenues and results of operations may be adversely affected. 15 We are subject to regulation by various U.S. federal, state and non-U.S. agencies, which requires us to comply with regulations in the design, manufacture and distribution of most of our products and violation of such regulations could adversely affect us. Most of our products and operations are subject to regulation by the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and various other federal and state agencies, as well as by a number of non-U.S. governmental agencies. FDA regulations require that most of our new products have pre-marketing approval by the FDA, or prove substantial equivalence through a 510(k) notification, and also require that most of our products be manufactured in accordance with Good Manufacturing Practices. Some products and operations are also subject to regulation by the United States Drug Enforcement Agency (“DEA”) and various other federal and state agencies, including the United States Department of Agriculture (“USDA”), as well as by a number of non-U.S. governmental agencies. DEA regulations require that we obtain DEA Registrations for the bulk manufacture and handling of controlled substances, and maintain effective controls against diversion. The USDA regulates the importation of animal-sourced materials and the treatment and handling of animals utilized to derive biological materials used in research or production. Compliance with such regulations substantially increases the time, difficulty and costs incurred in obtaining and maintaining the approval to manufacture and market newly developed and existing products. In addition, government regulatory actions can result in the seizure or recall of products, denial, suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for their production and sale and other civil or criminal sanctions. We are subject to various environmental and occupational health and safety laws and any violation of these laws could result in liability that could adversely affect us. We are subject to worldwide federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and are subject to liabilities and compliance costs associated with past and current handling, processing, storing and disposing of hazardous substances and wastes. Our operations are also subject to federal, state and local occupational health and safety laws and regulations in and outside the United States. This requires us to devote significant resources to maintain compliance with applicable environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations and to manage environmental risks. 16 