Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s operating strategy and structure may make it difficult to respond quickly to operational, financial or regulatory issues, which could negatively affect the Company’s financial results. The Company’s businesses report their results to NFP’s corporate headquarters on a monthly basis. The Company has implemented a consolidated general ledger, cash management and management information systems that allow NFP to monitor the overall performance of its businesses. However, if the Company’s businesses delay reporting results, correcting inaccurate results, or informing corporate headquarters of negative business developments, such as the loss of an important client or relationship, a threatened liability or a regulatory inquiry, NFP may not be able to take action to remedy the situation on a timely basis. This in turn could have a negative effect on the Company’s financial results. Beginning in 2009, NFP reorganized its businesses into three reportable segments: the CCG, the ICG and the ASG. The reorganization is intended to improve the allocation of the Company’s resources and the quality and scope of the services provided to the Company’s clients. NFP’s failure to facilitate internal growth, cross-selling and other growth initiatives among its businesses may negatively impact the Company’s earnings or revenue growth. Acquired businesses may not perform as expected. NFP’s dependence on the Company’s principals may limit its ability to manage the Company effectively and profitably. While the Company intends that acquisitions will improve profitability, past or future acquisitions may not be accretive to earnings or otherwise meet operational or strategic expectations. The failure of businesses to perform as expected at the time of acquisition may have an adverse effect on the Company’s internal earnings and revenue growth rates, and may result in impairment charges and/or generate losses or charges to its earnings if businesses are disposed. Through December 31, 2010, NFP has completed a total of 268 acquisition transactions, including 48 sub-acquisitions. NFP has also disposed of 57 entities and internally consolidated 19 businesses. Through December 31, 2010, NFP has restructured 61 transactions. Recent economic conditions, poor operating performance, the cultural incompatibility of a firm’s management team with the Company, issues specific to a principal, or other circumstances may lead to restructures or increased dispositions, which may lead to losses incurred by the Company. Most of the Company’s acquisitions result in the acquired business becoming NFP’s wholly-owned subsidiary. The principals enter into management agreements pursuant to which they continue to manage the day-to-day operations of the acquired business. The principals retain responsibility for operations of the acquired business for an initial five-year term, renewable annually thereafter by the principals and/or certain entities they own, subject to termination for cause and supervisory oversight as required by applicable securities and insurance laws and regulations and the terms of the Company’s management agreements. The principals are responsible for ordinary course operational decisions, including personnel, culture and office location. The principals also maintain the primary relationship with clients and in some cases vendors. Unsatisfactory performance by the principals could hinder the Company’s ability to grow and could have a material adverse effect on its business. Although NFP maintains internal controls that allow it to oversee the Company’s operations, and non-ordinary course transactions require NFP’s consent, the Company is exposed to losses resulting from day-to-day decisions of the principals. To the extent that a wholly-owned subsidiary has liabilities or expenses in excess of what it can pay, NFP may be liable for such payment. A depressed economic environment and its impact on consumer confidence could negatively affect the Company. Beginning in late 2008, consumer confidence and consumer spending have decreased significantly, and could remain depressed for an extended period. Consumer purchases of the products the Company distributes may decline during periods where disposable income is adversely affected or there is economic uncertainty. The 13 Table of Contents tightening of credit in financial markets also adversely affects the ability of customers to obtain financing for the products and services the Company distributes. Adverse general economic conditions may cause potential customers to defer or forgo the purchase of products that the Company’s businesses sell. Additionally, the Company’s businesses earn recurring commission revenue on certain products over a period after the initial sale, provided the customer retains the product. Customers may surrender or terminate these products due to a depressed economic environment, ending this recurring revenue. Moreover, insolvencies associated with an economic downturn could adversely affect the Company’s business through the loss of carriers, clients or by hampering the Company’s ability to place business. Further, reduced employee headcount due to widespread layoffs could also impact the Company’s corporate benefits sales. Lower stock prices, associated with a general decline in market conditions, could reduce fees to the Company’s businesses that earn commissions based on assets under management. General economic and market factors may reduce the size or slow the rate of growth of the Company’s clients. Finally, if the Company’s earnings deteriorate, it is possible that NFP would fail to comply with the terms of its credit facility, which could have a significant impact on the Company. Changes in the Company’s accounting or reporting assumptions could negatively affect its financial position and operating results. NFP prepares its financial statements in accordance with GAAP. GAAP requires NFP to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, and the Company’s financial statements. NFP is also required to make certain judgments that affect the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during each reporting period. NFP periodically evaluates its estimates and assumptions, including those relating to the valuation of intangible assets, investments, income taxes, stock-based compensation, claims handling obligations, retirement plans, reserves, litigation and contingencies. NFP bases its estimates on historical experience and various assumptions that NFP believes to be reasonable based on specific circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from estimated results. The Company may not be successful in acquiring suitable acquisition candidates, which could adversely affect the Company’s growth. NFP anticipates continuing acquisitions and sub-acquisitions, focusing on businesses that provide recurring revenue and/or strategically complement its existing businesses. NFP’s acquisition activity may be inhibited in light of economic conditions, and there can be no assurance that the Company’s level of acquisition activity and growth from acquisitions will be consistent with past levels. If the Company is not successful in acquiring suitable acquisition candidates, its business, earnings, revenue and strategies may be adversely affected. The Company competes with numerous integrated financial services organizations, insurance brokers, insurance companies, banks and other entities to acquire high quality independent financial services distribution firms. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater financial resources and may be able to outbid NFP for these acquisition targets. If NFP does identify suitable candidates, NFP may not be able to complete any such acquisition on terms that are commercially acceptable to the Company. If NFP is unable to complete acquisitions, it may have an adverse effect on the Company’s earnings or revenue growth and negatively impact the Company’s strategic plan. If the Company is required to write down goodwill and other intangible assets, the Company’s financial condition and results would be negatively affected. Under GAAP, if NFP determines goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, NFP will be required to write down these assets. Any write-down would have a negative effect on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. As of December 31, 2010, goodwill of $60.9 million, net, represented 14.9% of the Company’s total 14 Table of Contents stockholders’ equity. As of December 31, 2010, other intangible assets, including book of business, management contracts, institutional customer relationships and trade name, of $337.8 million, net, represented 82.8% of the Company’s total stockholders’ equity. The method to compute the amount of impairment incorporates quantitative data and qualitative criteria including new information and judgments that can dramatically change the decision about the valuation of an intangible asset in a very short period of time. The timing and amount of realized losses reported in earnings could vary if management’s conclusions were different. Any resulting impairment loss could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s reported financial position and results of operations for any particular quarterly or annual period. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company recorded impairment losses of $591.5 million, and $35.0 million, respectively, related to goodwill and trade name, which is reflected in the consolidated statements of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2010, no such impairment was recorded. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, the Company recorded impairment losses of $2.9 million, $27.0 million, and $6.3 million respectively, related to management contract and book of business, which is reflected in the consolidated statements of operations. For more detail regarding impairments, see “Note 15—Goodwill and other intangible assets” to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report. Additionally, significant impairment charges may impact compliance with the financial covenants of NFP’s credit facility. Principal incentive plans may not have their intended effect. NFP views incentive plans as an essential component in compensating principals and as a way to activate growth across the Company. NFP historically incentivized its principals through the ongoing incentive plan, which was established for principals who had completed their contingent consideration period. In 2009, NFP adopted three new incentive plans, the Annual Principal Incentive Plan, the Business Incentive Plan and the Long-Term Equity Incentive Plan, for principals and key employees of its businesses. During the quarter ended September 30, 2010, NFP introduced a revised Long-Term Incentive Plan. For a more detailed discussion of NFP’s incentive plans, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Incentive Plans.” While NFP believes that meaningful incentives are an important part of the Company’s operating structure, the financial impact of the principal incentive plans on the Company could be negative. For instance, NFP’s portion of the earnings generated by a particular firm or firms could be higher without the payouts associated with the principal incentive plans. Additionally, the principal incentive plans may not be accurately calibrated to motivate principals, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Because the revenue the Company earns on the sale of certain insurance products is based on premiums and commission rates set by insurers, any decreases in these premiums or commission rates could result in revenue decreases for the Company. The decrease in other fees that the Company earns may also impact the Company’s revenue. The Company is engaged in insurance agency and brokerage activities and derives revenue from commissions on the sale of insurance products to clients that are paid by the insurance underwriters from whom the Company’s clients purchase insurance. Because payments for the sale of insurance products are processed internally by insurance underwriters, the Company may not receive a payment that is otherwise expected in any particular period until after the end of that period, which can adversely affect the Company’s ability to budget for significant future expenditures. The commission rates are set by insurance underwriters and are based on the premiums that the insurance underwriters charge. Commission rates and premiums can change based on the prevailing economic and 15 Table of Contents competitive factors that affect insurance underwriters. These factors, which are not within the Company’s control, include the capacity of insurance underwriters to place new business, underwriting and non-underwriting profits of insurance underwriters, consumer demand for insurance products, the availability of comparable products from other insurance underwriters at a lower cost and the availability of alternative insurance products, such as government benefits and self-insurance plans, to consumers. In March 2010, the federal government enacted the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “PPACA”) and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010 (together with the PPACA, the “Healthcare Reform Laws”). As a result of new regulations created by the Healthcare Reform Laws as well as other factors, certain insurance carriers have either reduced or eliminated compensation paid to intermediaries. These actions have and will likely continue to cause a reduction in compensation the Company receives from certain carriers. In response to these changes, the Company may modify some of its compensation arrangements such that it receives fees from clients as opposed to commissions from carriers. Fees from clients may be lower than commissions previously received from carriers and some clients may not be receptive to paying fees to intermediaries if the carriers’ premiums are not reduced accordingly. NFP cannot predict the timing or extent of future changes in commission rates, premiums or life settlement and investment advisory fees. Any changes may result in revenue decreases for the Company, which may adversely affect results of operations for the periods in which they occur. While the Company does not believe it has experienced any significant revenue reductions in the aggregate in its business to date due to these occurrences, the Company is aware of several instances in recent years of insurance underwriters reducing commission payments on certain life insurance and employee benefits products. Additionally, the elimination or modification of compensation arrangements, including contingent compensation arrangements and the adoption of internal initiatives to enhance compensation transparency, may also result in revenue decreases for the Company. The Company’s business may be adversely affected by restrictions and limitations under its credit facility. Changes in the Company’s ability to access capital could adversely affect the Company’s operations. On June 9, 2010, NFP entered into the fourth amendment to the credit agreement, among NFP, the lenders party thereto and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent (as amended, the “2006 Credit Facility”). On July 8, 2010, NFP terminated the 2006 Credit Facility and entered into a new $225.0 million credit agreement, among NFP, the lenders party thereto and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent (the “2010 Credit Facility”). As of December 31, 2010, NFP was in compliance with the financial covenants under the 2010 Credit Facility. However, if the Company’s earnings deteriorate, it is possible that NFP would fail to comply with its financial covenants and be in default under the 2010 Credit Facility. Default under the 2010 Credit Facility resulting in its acceleration would, subject to a 30-day grace period, trigger a default under the indenture governing NFP’s $125.0 million principal amount of 4.0% convertible senior notes due June 15, 2017 (the “2010 Notes”). In that case, the trustee under the 2010 Notes or the holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the 2010 Notes could accelerate their payment. Default under the 2010 Credit Facility would trigger a default under NFP’s convertible note hedge and warrant transactions entered into concurrently with NFP’s offering of 2010 Notes, in which case the applicable counterparties could designate early termination under these instruments. The restrictions in the 2010 Credit Facility may prevent NFP from taking actions that it believes would be in the best interest of the Company and its stockholders and may make it difficult for NFP to execute its business strategy successfully. Subject to certain exceptions, the 2010 Credit Facility contains covenants that restrict the Company’s ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness or guarantees, create liens or other encumbrances on property or grant negative pledges, enter into a merger or similar transaction, sell or transfer 16 Table of Contents certain property, make certain restricted payments or make certain advances or loans. A restrictive covenant limits the total balance of notes outstanding to principals that are entered into in connection with the over-advancement of management fees. To the extent NFP exceeds its covenant limit on the total balance of such notes outstanding, such advances in excess of the limit could impact NFP’s financial results. NFP may not be able to access capital on acceptable terms, or raise additional capital in the future, which could result in the Company’s inability to achieve operational objectives. Any disruption in NFP’s access to capital could require the Company to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, acquisitions or other discretionary uses of cash. Certain events may dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. To the extent NFP issues any shares of common stock upon conversion of the 2010 Notes, the conversion of some or all of the 2010 Notes may dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders, which may be only partially offset by the convertible note hedge transactions, after settlement of the warrant transactions. The potential issuance of additional shares in connection with future financing activities could adversely impact the price of NFP’s common stock. The price of NFP’s common stock may fluctuate significantly, which could negatively affect the Company and the holders of NFP’s common stock. The trading price of NFP’s common stock may be volatile in response to a number of factors, including a decrease in insurance premiums and commission rates, actual or anticipated variations in NFP’s quarterly financial results, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts and announcements by competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments. In addition, financial results may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. If this were to occur, the market price of NFP’s common stock could decrease, perhaps significantly. Any volatility or a significant decrease in the market price of NFP’s common stock could also negatively affect the Company’s ability to make acquisitions using its common stock as consideration. In addition, stock markets have generally experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market prices of equity securities of many listed companies have experienced wide price fluctuations not necessarily related to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of NFP’s common stock. In the past, securities class action lawsuits frequently have been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of such companies’ securities. If any such litigation is initiated against NFP, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The Company’s business is subject to risks related to legal proceedings and governmental inquiries. The Company is subject to investigations and other claims arising out of its business operations, including actions relating to the suitability of insurance and financial services products and other actions related to the purchase or sale of insurance and investment products and services. In addition, actions and claims against insurance and other financial services companies may result in such companies rescinding the sales of insurance policies or other financial products and seeking to recoup commissions paid to the Company. The outcome of these actions cannot be predicted, and such litigation or actions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. From time to time, the Company is also subject to new laws and regulations and regulatory actions, including investigations. The insurance industry has been subject to a significant level of scrutiny by various regulatory bodies, including state attorneys general and insurance departments, concerning certain practices 17 Table of Contents within the insurance industry. These practices include, without limitation, conducting stranger-owned life insurance sales in which the policy purchaser may not have a sufficient insurable interest as required by some states’ laws or regulations, the receipt of contingent commissions by insurance brokers and agents from insurance companies and the extent to which such compensation has been disclosed, bid rigging and related matters. There have been a number of revisions to existing, or proposals to modify or enact new, laws and regulations regarding insurance agents and brokers. These actions have imposed or could impose additional obligations on the Company with respect to the insurance and other financial products sold by the Company’s businesses. For instance, the New York Insurance Department promulgated Regulation No. 194, which is effective as of January 1, 2011. Regulation No. 194 does not prohibit producers from accepting contingent commissions as compensation from insurers, but does obligate all insurance producers to abide by certain minimally prescribed uniform standards of compensation disclosure. In addition, some insurance companies have agreed with regulatory authorities to end the payment of contingent commissions on insurance products. A portion of the Company’s commissions or payments from manufacturers of financial services products is based on the volume, consistency and profitability of business generated by the Company. If clients seek alternatives to the Company’s products and services, the volume and consistency of business could decrease, having a negative effect on the Company’s revenue. During 2004, several of NFP’s subsidiaries received subpoenas and other informational requests from governmental authorities, including the New York Attorney General’s Office, seeking information regarding compensation arrangements, any evidence of bid rigging and related matters. In March 2006, NFP received a subpoena from the New York Attorney General’s Office seeking information regarding life settlement transactions. One of NFP’s subsidiaries received a subpoena seeking the same information. In December 2010, such subsidiary entered into a settlement agreement with the New York Attorney General’s Office regarding life settlement transactions, pursuant to which the Company agreed to the payment of an immaterial amount. Certain changes, if adopted by the Company, the federal government or the states where the Company markets insurance or conducts life settlements or other insurance-related business, could adversely affect the Company’s revenue and financial results. The Company cooperated and will continue to cooperate fully with all governmental agencies. NFP cannot predict the impact that any new laws, rules or regulations may have on the Company’s business and financial results. Given the current regulatory environment and the number of NFP’s subsidiaries operating in local markets throughout the country, it is possible that the Company will become subject to further governmental inquiries and subpoenas and have lawsuits filed against it. Regulators may raise issues during investigations, examinations or audits that could, if determined adversely, have a material impact on the Company. The interpretations of regulations by regulators may change and statutes may be enacted with retroactive impact, particularly in areas such as accounting or statutory reserve requirements. The Company could also be materially adversely affected by any new industry-wide regulations or practices that may result from these proceedings. The Company’s involvement in any investigations and lawsuits would cause the Company to incur additional legal and other costs and, if the Company were found to have violated any laws, it could be required to pay fines, damages and other costs, perhaps in material amounts. Regardless of eventual costs, these matters could have a material adverse effect on the Company by exposing it to negative publicity, reputational damage, harm to client relationships, or diversion of personnel and management resources. Non-compliance with or changes in licensing requirements, laws and regulations applicable to the Company could restrict the Company’s ability to conduct its business. The financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation. The Company conducts business in the United States, certain United States territories and Canada and is subject to regulation and supervision both federally and in each applicable local jurisdiction. In general, these regulations are designed to protect clients, policyholders and insureds and to protect the integrity of the financial markets rather than to protect stockholders 18 Table of Contents and creditors. The Company’s ability to conduct business in these jurisdictions depends on the Company’s compliance with the rules and regulations promulgated by federal regulatory bodies and other regulatory authorities. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements, or changes in regulatory requirements or interpretations, could result in actions by regulators, potentially leading to fines and penalties, adverse publicity and damage to the Company’s reputation in the marketplace. In extreme cases, revocation of a subsidiary’s authority to do business in one or more jurisdictions could result from failure to comply with regulatory requirements. Changes in federal or state law or changes in their interpretation and application could adversely impact the Company. Further, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to adapt effectively to any changes in law. In addition, NFP could face lawsuits by clients, insureds and other parties for alleged violations of certain of these laws and regulations. Further, the Company cannot predict the effect of the Healthcare Reform Laws on portions of its business. Many provisions of the Healthcare Reform Laws do not go into effect immediately and may be subject to further adjustments through future legislation. Possible impacts include the reduction or elimination of client healthcare expenditures or postponed expenditure decisions, which could have a significant impact on the commissions that the CCG earns through the sale of healthcare products and services. The adoption of state-based health insurance exchanges, the additional regulatory burden on employers, and the increase in premium costs may reduce the number of employers seeking to provide employer-sponsored coverage for their employees, which could also reduce the demand for the CCG’s services. The regulation of the financial services industry has also been a focus of lawmakers. In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) was signed into law. Although few provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act became effective immediately upon enactment, and many of the law’s provisions require the adoption of rules governing implementation of the law, the Dodd-Frank Act is anticipated to have far-reaching implications on the financial services industry generally and may have an impact on the Company’s operations specifically. For instance, the Dodd-Frank Act established a Federal Insurance Office in the U.S. Treasury Department to monitor aspects of the insurance industry, subject to some exceptions. The Company is unable to predict with certainty what impact the Dodd-Frank Act or any other such legislation could have on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Further modification of the federal estate tax could also adversely affect revenue from the Company’s life insurance, wealth transfer and estate planning businesses. Legislation enacted in the spring of 2001 under the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001 (“EGTRRA”), increased the size of estates exempt from the federal estate tax and phased in additional increases between 2002 and 2009. EGTRRA also phased in reductions in the federal estate tax rate between 2002 and 2009 and repealed the federal estate tax entirely in 2010. As enacted, EGTRRA has had a modest negative impact on the Company’s revenue from the sale of estate planning services and products including certain life insurance products that are often used to fund estate tax obligations and could have a further negative impact in the future. As originally enacted, EGTRRA would have reinstated the federal estate tax in 2011 and thereafter, without an increased exemption or reduced tax rate. However, in December 2010, significant legislation was passed to extend or amend certain provisions of EGTRRA, including the establishment of an estate tax rate of 35% with an exclusion of $5.0 million through 2012. Uncertainty remains regarding long-term wealth management strategies. Any additional increases in the size of estates exempt from the federal estate tax, further reductions in the federal estate tax rate or other legislation to permanently repeal the federal estate tax, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenue. Most of NFP’s businesses are licensed to engage in the insurance agency or brokerage business. Further, principals and employees who engage in the solicitation, negotiation or sale of insurance, or provide certain other insurance services, are required to be licensed individually. Insurance laws and regulations govern whether licensees may share insurance commissions with unlicensed entities and individuals. NFP believes that any payments made by the Company to third parties, including payment of management fees to unaffiliated 19 Table of Contents management companies, are in compliance with applicable insurance laws. However, should any insurance department take a contrary position and prevail, NFP will be required to change the manner in which it pays management fees or require entities receiving such payments to become licensed. State insurance laws grant supervisory agencies, including state insurance departments, broad administrative authority. State insurance regulators and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”) continually review existing laws and regulations, some of which affect the Company. These supervisory agencies regulate many aspects of the insurance business, including, among other things, the licensing of insurance brokers and agents and other insurance intermediaries, the handling of third-party funds held in a fiduciary capacity, and trade practices, such as marketing, advertising and compensation arrangements entered into by insurance brokers and agents. Regulatory review or the issuance of interpretations of existing laws and regulations may result in the enactment of new laws and regulations that could adversely affect the Company’s operations or its ability to conduct business profitably. The Company is unable to predict whether any such laws or regulations will be enacted and to what extent such laws and regulations would affect its business. Although the federal government generally does not directly regulate the insurance business, federal initiatives often and increasingly have an impact on the Company’s business in a variety of ways. From time to time, federal measures are proposed which may significantly affect the insurance business, including proposals for exclusive federal regulation over interstate insurers, limitations on antitrust immunity, tax incentives for lifetime annuity payouts and simplification bills affecting tax-advantaged or tax-exempt savings and retirement vehicles. In addition, various forms of direct federal regulation of insurance have been proposed from time to time. NFP cannot predict whether proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals may have on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operation. A few of NFP’s subsidiaries, including NFPSI, are registered broker-dealers. The regulation of broker-dealers is performed, to a large extent, by the SEC and self-regulatory organizations, principally the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”). Broker-dealers are subject to regulations which cover all aspects of the securities business, including sales practices, trading practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers’ funds and securities, capital structure, recordkeeping and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. Continued efforts by market regulators to increase transparency and reduce the transaction costs for investors, such as decimalization and FINRA’s Trade Reporting and Compliance Engine, has affected and could continue to affect the Company’s trading revenue. Providing investment advice to clients is also regulated on both the federal and state level. Each firm that is a state-regulated investment adviser is subject to regulation under the laws and regulation of the states in which it provides investment advisory services. NFPSI and certain of NFP’s businesses are investment advisers registered with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Advisers Act”), and certain of NFP’s businesses are regulated by state securities regulators under applicable state securities laws. Each firm that is a federally registered investment adviser is regulated and subject to examination by the SEC. The Investment Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on registered investment advisers, including disclosure obligations, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, marketing restrictions and general anti-fraud prohibitions. Additionally, changes to Rule 12b-1 under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”) governing the payment of mutual fund marketing and distribution fees may adversely affect the Company’s financial performance. The failure to comply with the Investment Advisers Act or the Investment Company Act could cause the SEC to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations, including censure, termination of an investment adviser’s registration or prohibition to serve as adviser to SEC-registered funds, and could lead to litigation by investors in those funds. The influence of model acts may also have an impact on the Company. The NAIC Model Act and the National Conference of Insurance Legislators (NCOIL) Model Act are serving as templates for new state proposed legislation relating to life settlement transactions and may have the effect of reducing the number of life settlement transactions generally, which may lead to a decrease in the Company’s revenue. The Company is unable to predict 20 Table of Contents the effect of this legislation on the life settlement industry, which may have the effect of reducing the number of life settlement transactions, which in turn may lead to a decrease in the Company’s revenue. Violations of applicable laws or regulations can result in the imposition of fines or censures, disciplinary actions, including the revocation of licenses or registrations, and reputational damage. Federal, state and other regulatory authorities have focused on, and continue to devote substantial attention to the annuity and insurance industries as well as to the sale of products or services to seniors. It is difficult at this time to predict whether changes resulting from new laws and regulations will affect the industry or the Company’s business and, if so, to what degree. Conditions impacting insurance carriers may also affect the Company. Regulations affecting the insurance carriers with whom the Company’s brokers place business can affect how the Company conducts its operations. Significant reforms to the manner in which health insurance is distributed in the United States could impact competition, reduce the need for health insurance brokerage services or reduce the demand for health insurance administration, any of which could harm the CCG’s business, operating results and financial condition. Any potential defaults by, or even rumors about the stability of, financial institutions such as insurers could result in losses by these institutions. Questions about an insurance carrier’s perceived stability and financial strength ratings may contribute to such insurers’ strategic decisions to focus on certain lines of insurance to the detriment of others. Consequently, the potential for a significant insurer to cease writing certain insurance the Company offers its customers could negatively impact overall capacity in the industry, which in turn could have the effect of reduced placement of certain lines and types of insurance and reduced revenue and profitability for the Company. Further, to the extent that questions about an insurance carrier’s viability contribute to such insurers’ failure in the market, the Company could be exposed to losses resulting from such insurers’ inability to pay commissions or fees owed. The Company has relationships with many financial institutions, including insurers which are regulated by state insurance departments for solvency issues and are subject to reserve requirements. NFP cannot guarantee that all insurance carriers it does business with will maintain these traditional ratings. The Company may need to expend resources to address questions or concerns regarding its relationships with these insurers, diverting management resources away from operating the Company’s business. Competition in the Company’s industry is intense and, if the Company is unable to compete effectively, the Company may lose clients and its financial results may be negatively affected. The business of providing financial services to high net worth individuals and companies is highly competitive and the Company expects competition to intensify. The Company’s businesses compete for clients on the basis of reputation, client service, program and product offerings and their ability to tailor products and services to meet the specific needs of a client. The Company actively competes with numerous integrated financial services organizations as well as insurance companies and brokers, producer groups, individual insurance agents, investment management firms, independent financial planners and broker-dealers. Many of the Company’s competitors have greater financial and marketing resources than the Company does and may be able to offer products and services that the Company’s businesses do not currently offer and may not offer in the future. NFP believes, in light of increasing industry consolidation and the regulatory overhaul of the financial services industry, that competition will continue to increase from manufacturers and other marketers of financial services products. 21 Table of Contents A change in the tax treatment of life insurance products the Company sells or a determination that these products are not life insurance contracts for federal tax purposes could reduce the demand for these products, which may reduce the Company’s revenue. The market for many life insurance products the Company sells is based in large part on the favorable tax treatment, including the tax-free build up of cash values and the tax-free nature of death benefits that these products receive relative to other investment alternatives. A change in the tax treatment associated with plans and strategies utilizing life insurance, or an adverse determination by the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) relative to such plans and strategies, could remove many of the tax advantages policyholders seek in these policies. In addition, the IRS from time to time releases guidance on the tax treatment of products the Company sells. If the provisions of the tax code were changed or new federal tax regulations and IRS rulings and releases were issued in a manner that would make it more difficult for holders of these insurance contracts to qualify for favorable tax treatment or subject holders to special tax reporting requirements, the demand for the life insurance contracts the Company sells could decrease, which may reduce the Company’s revenue and negatively affect its business. Under current law, both death benefits and accrual of cash value under a life insurance contract are treated favorably for federal income tax purposes. From time to time, legislation that would affect such tax treatment has been proposed, and sometimes it is enacted. For example, federal legislation that would eliminate the tax-free nature of corporate-owned and bank-owned life insurance in certain narrow circumstances was introduced in 2004 and enacted in 2006. Although the effect of the legislation was mitigated as many of the Company’s businesses, in line with the life insurance industry generally, modified their business practices in advance of this legislation in order to remain eligible for the tax benefits on such insurance acquisitions, there can be no assurance that the Company’s businesses will be able to anticipate and prepare for future legislative changes in a timely manner. In addition, a proposal that would have imposed an excise tax on the acquisition costs of certain life insurance contracts in which a charity and a person other than the charity held an interest was included in the administration’s Fiscal Year 2006 Budget, but the provision was not ultimately enacted. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 requires the U.S. Treasury Department to conduct a study on these contracts, and it is possible that an excise tax or similarly focused provision could be imposed in the future. Such a provision could adversely affect, among other things, the utility of and the appetite of clients to employ insurance strategies involving charitable giving of life insurance policy benefits when the policy is or has been owned by someone other than the charity, and the Company’s revenue from the sale of policies pursuant to such strategies could materially decline. If the tax treatment associated with the sale of life insurance products is determined to be different than originally anticipated, the Company could be subject to litigation or IRS scrutiny. The Company cannot predict whether changes in the tax treatment, or anticipated tax treatment, of life insurance, or plans or strategies utilizing life insurance, are likely or what the consequences of such changes would ultimately be to the Company. Changes in the pricing, design or underwriting of products and services the Company sells could adversely affect the Company’s revenue. Insurance premiums may vary widely based on market conditions, which the Company does not control. Market cycles for insurance product pricing can lead to the Company’s brokerage revenues and profitability to be volatile or lowered for extended periods of time. Additionally, the Company believes that changes in the reinsurance market have made it more difficult for insurance carriers to obtain reinsurance coverage for life insurance, including certain types of financed life insurance transactions. This has caused some insurance carriers to become more conservative in their underwriting and to change the design and pricing of universal life insurance policies, which may reduce their attractiveness to customers. Revisions in mortality tables by life expectancy underwriters could have an additional negative impact on the Company. Interest rates can have a significant effect on both the sale of employee benefit programs, whether they are financed by life insurance or other financial instruments, and the sale of financed life insurance products. If 22 Table of Contents interest rates increase, competing products offering higher returns could become more attractive to potential purchasers than the programs and policies the Company distributes. Additionally, if interest rates increase, the availability or attractiveness financed life insurance products may decrease, which may reduce the Company’s new sales of life insurance products. A decrease in stock prices can have a significant effect on the sale of financial services products that are linked to the stock market, such as variable life insurance, variable annuities, mutual funds and managed accounts. Additionally, a portion of the Company’s earnings is derived from businesses offering financial advisory services, which are typically based on a percentage of assets under management. A decrease in the value of assets under management could lead to a corresponding decrease in the Company’s earnings derived from these businesses. Further, regulatory developments also could affect product design and the attractiveness of certain products. For example, in December 2005, the Office of the General Counsel of the New York Insurance Department issued an opinion on certain financed life insurance transactions that led to changes in the design and demand for financed life insurance products generally. Any developments that reduce the attractiveness of products and services could result in fewer sales of those products and services and adversely affect the Company’s revenue. The securities brokerage business has inherent risks. The securities brokerage and advisory business is subject to numerous and substantial risks, particularly in volatile or illiquid markets, or in markets influenced by sustained periods of low or negative economic growth. Risks associated with the operation of a broker-dealer include counterparty failure to meet commitments, fraudulent behavior, including unauthorized transactions by registered representatives or fraud perpetrated by clients, failures in connection with the processing of securities transactions and litigation. The Company cannot be certain that its risk management procedures and internal controls will prevent losses from occurring. A substantial portion of the Company’s revenue is generated by NFPSI, and any losses at NFPSI could have a significant effect on the Company’s revenue and earnings. Failure to comply with net capital requirements could subject the Company’s wholly-owned broker-dealers to suspension or revocation of their licenses by the SEC or expulsion from FINRA. The SEC, FINRA and various other regulatory agencies have stringent laws, regulations and rules with respect to the maintenance of specific levels of net capital by securities brokerage firms. Failure to maintain the required net capital may subject a business to suspension or revocation of registration by the SEC or FINRA, which ultimately could prevent NFPSI or the Company’s other broker-dealers from performing as a broker-dealer. Although the Company’s broker-dealers have compliance procedures in place to ensure that the required levels of net capital are maintained, there can be no assurance that the Company’s broker-dealers will remain in compliance with the net capital requirements. In addition, a change in the net capital rules, the imposition of new rules or any unusually large charge against net capital could limit the operations of NFPSI or the Company’s other broker-dealers, which could harm the Company’s business. The geographic concentration of the Company’s businesses could leave the Company vulnerable to economic downturns, regulatory changes, or severe climate conditions in those areas, resulting in a decrease in the Company’s revenue. The Company’s businesses located in New York produced approximately 10.6%, 12.1%, 10.8%, 9.8% and 10.1% of the Company’s revenue for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. The Company’s businesses located in Florida produced approximately 4.6%, 4.4%, 7.8%, 10.8% and 14.2% of the Company’s revenue for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. The Company’s businesses located in California produced approximately 6.2%, 6.6%, 8.2%, 9.7% and 11.3% of the Company’s revenue for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. 23 Table of Contents Because the Company’s business is concentrated in these three states, the occurrence of adverse economic conditions or an adverse regulatory climate in any of these states could negatively affect the Company’s financial results more than would be the case if the Company’s business were more geographically diversified. A weakening economic environment in any state or region could result in a decrease in employment or wages that may reduce the demand for employee benefit products in that state or region. Reductions in personal income could reduce individuals’ demand for various financial products in that state or region. Businesses in California and Florida may be particularly susceptible to natural disasters, such as earthquakes or hurricanes. To the extent broad environmental factors, triggered by climate change or otherwise, lead to disruptions in business or unexpected relocation costs, the performance of businesses in these regions could be adversely impacted. The loss of key personnel could negatively affect the Company’s financial results and impair the Company’s ability to implement its business strategy. The Company’s success substantially depends on its ability to attract and retain key members of NFP’s senior management team and the principals of the businesses. If the Company were to lose one or more of these key employees or principals, its ability to successfully implement its business plan and the value of NFP’s common stock could be materially adversely affected. Jessica M. Bibliowicz, the chairman of NFP’s board of directors, president and chief executive officer, is particularly important to the Company. Although she has an employment agreement, there can be no assurance that she will serve the term of her employment agreement or renew her employment agreement upon expiration. Other than with respect to Ms. Bibliowicz and certain of the Company’s principals, the Company does not maintain key person life insurance policies. The Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively affected by errors and omissions claims. The Company has significant insurance agency, brokerage, intermediary and life settlement operations as well as securities brokerage and investment advisory operations and activities, and is subject to claims and litigation in the ordinary course of business resulting from alleged and actual errors and omissions in placing insurance, effecting life settlement and securities transactions and rendering investment advice. These activities involve substantial amounts of money. Since errors and omissions claims against NFP’s businesses may allege the Company’s liability for all or part of the amounts in question, claimants may seek large damage awards. These claims can involve significant defense costs. Errors and omissions could include, for example, failure, whether negligently or intentionally, to place coverage or effect securities transactions on behalf of clients, to provide insurance carriers with complete and accurate information relating to the risks being insured or to appropriately apply funds that the Company holds on a fiduciary basis. It is not always possible to prevent or detect errors and omissions, and the precautions the Company takes may not be effective in all cases. The Company has errors and omissions insurance coverage to protect against the risk of liability resulting from alleged and actual errors and omissions by the Company. Prices for this insurance and the scope and limits of the coverage terms available are dependent on market conditions that are outside of the control of the Company. While the Company endeavors to purchase coverage that is appropriate to its assessment of the Company’s risk, NFP is unable to predict with certainty the frequency, nature or magnitude of claims for direct or consequential damages. Although management does not believe that claims against the Company, either individually or in the aggregate, will materially affect its business, financial condition or results of operations, there can be no assurance that the Company will successfully dispose of or settle these claims or that insurance coverage will be available or adequate to pay the amounts of any award or settlement. 24 Table of Contents Because clients can withdraw the assets the Company manages on short notice, poor performance of the investment products and services the Company’s businesses recommend or sell may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company’s investment advisory and administrative contracts with their clients are generally terminable upon 30 days’ notice. These clients can terminate their relationship with the Company’s businesses, reduce the aggregate amount of assets under management or shift their funds to other types of accounts with different rate structures for any of a number of reasons, including investment performance, changes in prevailing interest rates, financial market performance and personal client liquidity needs. Poor performance of the investment products and services that the Company’s businesses recommend or sell relative to the performance of other products available in the market or the performance of other investment management firms tends to result in the loss of accounts. The decrease in revenue that could result from such an event could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected if the Company is unable to facilitate smooth succession planning at its businesses. NFP seeks to acquire businesses in which the principals are not ready to retire, are motivated to grow earnings and participate in the growth incentives that the Company offers. However, NFP cannot predict with certainty how long the principals of its businesses will continue working. The personal reputation of the principals of the Company’s businesses and the relationships they have are crucial to success in the independent distribution channel. Upon retirement of a principal, a business may be adversely affected if that principal’s successor is not as successful as the original principal. As a result of NFP’s short operating history, succession will be a larger issue for the Company in the future. The Company will attempt to facilitate smooth transitions but if the Company is not successful, the Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected. The Company’s revenue and earnings may be more exposed than other financial services firms to the revocation or suspension of the licenses or registrations of the Company’s principals because the revenue and earnings of many of the Company’s businesses are largely dependent on the individual production of their respective principals for whom designated successors may not be in place. The Company’s business is dependent upon information processing systems. Security or data breaches may hurt the Company’s business. The Company’s ability to provide financial services to clients and to create and maintain comprehensive tracking and reporting of client accounts depends on the Company’s capacity to store, retrieve and process data, manage significant databases and expand and periodically upgrade the Company’s information processing capabilities. As the Company continues to grow, the Company will need to continue to make investments in new and enhanced information systems. Interruption or loss of the Company’s information processing capabilities or adverse consequences from implementing new or enhanced systems could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and the value of its common stock. As the Company’s information system providers revise and upgrade their hardware, software and equipment technology, the Company may encounter difficulties in integrating these new technologies into its business. These new revisions and upgrades may not be appropriate for the Company’s business. In the course of providing financial services, certain of the Company’s businesses electronically store personally identifiable information, such as social security numbers, of clients or employees of clients. Breaches in data security or infiltration by unauthorized persons of the Company’s network security could cause interruptions in operations and damage to the Company’s reputation. While the Company maintains policies, procedures and technological safeguards designed to protect the security and privacy of this information, the Company cannot entirely eliminate the risk of improper access to or disclosure of personally identifiable information. Further, despite security measures taken, systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, viruses 25 Table of Contents or other disruptive problems. If the Company’s systems or facilities were infiltrated or damaged, the Company’s clients could experience data loss, financial loss and significant business interruption leading to a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. NFP may overestimate management fees advanced to principals and/or certain entities they own, which may negatively affect its financial condition and results. NFP typically advances management fees monthly to principals and/or certain entities they own. NFP sets each principal’s and/or such entity’s management fee amount after estimating how much operating cash flow the business that the principal and/or such entity manages will produce. If the business produces less operating cash flow than what NFP estimated, an overadvance may occur, which may negatively affect the Company’s financial condition and results. Further, since contractually NFP is unable to unilaterally adjust payments to the principals and/or certain entities they own until after a three, six or nine-month calculation period depending on the businesses, NFP may not be able to promptly take corrective measures, such as adjusting the monthly management fee lower or requiring the principal and/or such entity to repay the overadvance within a limited time period. Additionally, a restrictive covenant under NFP’s 2010 Credit Facility limits the total balance of notes outstanding to principals that are entered into in connection with the over-advancement of management fees. To the extent NFP exceeds its covenant limit on the total balance of such notes outstanding, such advances in excess of the limit could impact NFP’s financial results. In addition, if a principal and/or certain entities they own fail to repay an overadvance in a timely manner and any security NFP receives from the principal and/or such entities for the overadvance is insufficient, the Company’s financial condition and results may be negatively affected, which could negatively affect the Company’s results of operations. NFPSI relies heavily on Fidelity, its clearing firm, and termination of its agreement with Fidelity could harm its business. Pursuant to NFPSI’s clearing agreement with Fidelity, the clearing firm processes all securities brokerage transactions for NFPSI’s account and the accounts of its clients. Services of Fidelity include billing and credit extension and control, receipt, custody and delivery of securities. NFPSI is dependent on the ability of its clearing firm to process securities transactions in an orderly fashion. Clearing agreements with Fidelity may be terminated by either party upon 90 days’ prior written notice. If this agreement was terminated, NFPSI’s ability to process securities transactions on behalf of its clients could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 