ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors That May Affect Results of Operations and Financial Condition Set forth below are certain risks and uncertainties that could affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and/or stock price. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem less significant also may impair our business operations. We have a history of losses and we expect to experience losses in the foreseeable future. We have not achieved profitability and we may incur losses for the foreseeable future. In fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, we incurred losses of approximately $22.5 million $47.9 million and $27.4 million, respectively. As of September 30, 2006, our accumulated deficit was $237.2 million, which represents our net losses since inception. Although our cash balance is sizable, it may not last long enough for our operations to become profitable. We will need to achieve significant incremental revenue growth and manage our costs to achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may be unable to sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. It is possible that our revenue will grow more slowly than we anticipate or that operating expenses will grow. Our cost-reduction initiatives may not result in the anticipated savings or more efficient operations and may harm our long-term viability. Over the past several years, we have implemented extensive cost cutting measures and have incurred significant restructuring charges as we have attempted to streamline operations, improve efficiency, and reduce costs. These restructuring efforts may be disruptive to operations and our current cost-cutting efforts may not generate anticipated savings and improvements in our operating margins and profitability. Additionally, these restructurings may yield unanticipated consequences, such as attrition beyond our planned reduction in 11 workforce or increased difficulties in managing our day-to-day operations. Although we believe that it has been necessary to reduce the size and cost of our operations to improve our performance, the reduction in our operations may make it more difficult to develop and market new products and to compete successfully with other companies in our industry. In addition, many of the employees who have been terminated as part of our restructuring activities possessed specific knowledge or expertise that may prove to have been important to our operations and their absence may create significant difficulties. These efforts may not result in anticipated cost savings, making it difficult for us to achieve profitability. These cost reduction initiatives may also preclude us from making complementary acquisitions and/or other potentially significant expenditures that could improve our product offerings, competitiveness or long-term prospects. It is difficult to integrate acquired companies, products and technologies into our operations and our inability to do so could greatly lessen the value of any such acquisitions. We have made various strategic acquisitions of companies, products or technologies, including our acquisition of Protocom in August 2005 and the remaining equity interest in Aspace in December 2004, and we may make additional acquisitions in the future as a component of our business strategy. These acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • Difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products, and personnel of the acquired companies; • Diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; • Disputes over earn-outs or contingent payment obligations; • Insufficient revenue to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; and • The potential loss of key employees of the acquired entities. Acquisitions may also result in: • Recording goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and can result in potential periodic impairment charges which could be substantial; • Increases in our amortization expense; • Incurring large and immediate write-offs, and restructurings; and • Disputes regarding representations and warranties, indemnities and other provisions in acquisition agreements. In the past we have recorded charges to earnings associated with the impairment of other intangible assets, write-downs of goodwill and property and equipment, and losses from discontinued operations from our previous acquisitions. In addition, due to a change in our revenue forecast related to our acquisition of Aspace, we recorded a charge of $9.4 million related to the impairment of goodwill and a charge of $6.1 million related to the impairment of intangible assets in fiscal 2005. Additionally, acquisitions can also lead to expensive and time-consuming litigation, including relating to the achievement of earn-out targets, and may subject us to unanticipated liabilities or risks, disrupt our operations, divert management’s attention from day-to-day operations, and increase our operating expenses. To date, we have primarily used cash and stock to finance our business acquisitions. We may incur debt to finance future acquisitions. The issuance of equity securities for any future acquisitions could be substantially dilutive to our stockholders. If we are unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses, products or technologies with our existing operations, we may not receive the intended benefits of such acquisitions and we may be required to take future charges to earnings. 12 We have recorded significant write-downs in recent periods for impairment of acquired intangible assets and may have similar write-downs in future periods. We recorded an impairment charge of $9.4 million related to goodwill in fiscal 2005. Additionally, we have recorded impairment of acquired developed technology of $3.7 million in fiscal 2005, and impairment of acquired intangible assets of $2.4 million in fiscal 2005, $45,000 in the nine months ended September 30, 2004. The impaired assets consisted of developed and core technology, customer relationships, agreements, contracts, and trade names and trademarks capitalized in our acquisitions. We may terminate additional non-core activities in the future or determine that our long-lived assets, acquired intangible assets, or goodwill have been impaired. Any future termination or impairment related charges could be significant and would have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. As of September 30, 2006, we had $9.8 million of other intangible assets and $35.9 million of goodwill, accounting for approximately 23% of our total assets. We performed the annual impairment evaluation of goodwill as of December 1, 2005 and determined that no goodwill impairment existed as of that date. If the enterprise value at December 1, 2006 is lower than the enterprise value as of our last impairment evaluation date of December 1, 2005, the annual evaluation could result in an impairment of goodwill and/or other intangible assets charge in the quarter ending December 31, 2006 or at a later date, if the circumstances indicate that an impairment exists. If the members of our management team are unable to work together effectively or if there is additional turnover in senior management, our ability to manage and expand our business will suffer. Our management team has changed significantly in the past 12 months. In February 2006, we appointed Mark Lustig as our Chief Financial Officer to replace Ragu Bhargava, our former Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer who resigned in December 2005. Also, in February 2006 we appointed Jason Hart, our former Senior Vice President, Sales and Marketing, as our Chief Executive Officer to replace Ben C. Barnes, our former Chief Executive Officer, who resigned in February 2006. At the same time, Thomas Jahn, our former Chief Restructuring and Integration Officer, was appointed as our Chief Operating Officer. If these and other members of our senior management team cannot work together effectively, or if other members of our senior management team resign, our ability to manage our business will suffer. Employee turnover could adversely impact our revenues, costs and productivity. As employees leave ActivIdentity, we suffer loss of productivity while new employees are hired or promoted into vacant positions. The departure of highly skilled employees sometimes results in a loss of talent or knowledge that is difficult to replace. There are also costs of recruiting and relocating new employees. For example, the recruiting market for experienced operations personnel is very competitive and we may be limited in our ability to attract and retain key operations talent. New employees must learn the ActivIdentity organization, products and procedures. All of this takes time, reduces productivity and increases cost. The potential adverse impact of employee turnover is greater for situations involving senior positions in the company. Turnover rates tend to increase as economic conditions improve. If turnover increases, the adverse impact of turnover could materially affect our costs, productivity or ability respond quickly to the competitive environment. Increased costs associated with corporate governance compliance may significantly impact the results of our operations. Changing laws, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance, public disclosure, and compliance practices, including SOX, new SEC regulations and Nasdaq Global Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours in understanding and complying with these laws, regulations, and standards. As a result of this uncertainty and other factors, devoting the necessary resources to comply with evolving corporate governance and public disclosure standards have resulted in increased general and 13 administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention to compliance activities and are expected to continue to do so. We spent approximately $2.1 million on our SOX compliance effort in fiscal 2005 and $2.2 million in fiscal 2006. While we expect the costs of SOX compliance will decrease, these costs can be difficult to predict with certainty. In addition, these developments may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher premiums to obtain such coverage. We derive revenue from only a limited number of products and we do not have a diversified product base. Substantially all of our revenue is derived from the sale of our digital identity systems and products. We anticipate that substantially all of our future revenue, if any, will also be derived from these products. If for any reason our sale of these products is impeded, and we have not diversified our product offerings, our business and results of operations could be harmed. We have reduced our product offerings as part of our prior restructuring initiatives to focus on just our core products and we do not expect to diversify our product offerings in the foreseeable future. By limiting our product offerings in the future, we will likely increase the risks associated with not having a more diversified product base. Our customer base is highly concentrated and the loss of any one of these customers or delay in anticipated orders could adversely affect our business. Our customers consist primarily of medium to large enterprises, system integrators, resellers, distributors, and original equipment manufacturers. Historically, we have experienced a concentration of revenue through certain of our channel partners to customers and in fiscal 2006 there was a high concentration of revenue through a number of system integrators to the U.S. government. Many of our contracts with our significant channel partners are short-term. EDS and Novell each accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue during the fiscal year 2006. Peta Holdings LLC and Worldwide Technologies each accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue in fiscal 2005 and 2004, respectively. Additionally, due to uncertainties surrounding Homeland Security Presidential Directive #12, our government business declined significantly from 48% of product revenue in the year ended December 31, 2003 to 26% in fiscal 2005. The government business recovered somewhat during the fourth quarter of 2006 and accounted for 29% of revenue in fiscal year 2006. We expect that this variability will continue for the foreseeable future. If we lose any of the above or other significant customers or if any of our significant channel partners do not renew their contract upon expiration, or if there are further delays in orders from the U.S. government, it could adversely affect our business and operating results. We expect to continue to depend upon a small number of large customers for a substantial portion of our revenue. Our quarterly results are difficult to predict, and if we miss quarterly financial expectations, our stock price could decline. Our quarterly revenue, expense levels and operating results are difficult to predict and fluctuate from quarter to quarter. It is likely that our operating results in some periods will be below investor expectations. If this happens, the market price of our common stock is likely to decline. Fluctuations in our future quarterly operating results may be caused by many factors, including: • The size and timing of customer orders, which are received unevenly and unpredictably throughout a fiscal year and may be subject to seasonality relating to the U.S. federal government’s fiscal year and related spending patterns; • The mix of products licensed and types of license agreements; • The effect of generally accepted accounting principles on the timing of revenue recognition; • The timing of customer payments; 14 • The size and timing of revenue recognized in advance of actual customer billings and customers with graduated payment schedules that may result in higher accounts receivable balances; • The relative mix of our license and services revenue; • Our ability to win new customers and retain existing customers; • Changes in our pricing and discounting practices and licensing terms and those of our competitors; • Changes, if any, in the interpretation of the authoritative literature under which we recognize revenue; • The timing of product releases or upgrades by us or our competitors; • The integration, by us or our competitors, of newly-developed or acquired products; • Our ability to establish credit for certain customers; and • Consolidation within our industry which may provide our competitors an advantage. We have a long and often complicated sales cycle, which can result in significant revenue fluctuations from quarter to quarter. The sales cycle for our products is typically long and subject to a number of significant risks over which we have little control. The typical sales cycle is six to nine months for an enterprise customer and over twelve months for a network service provider or government. As our operating expenses are based on anticipated revenue levels, a small fluctuation in the timing of sales can cause our operating results to vary significantly from period to period. If revenue falls significantly below anticipated levels, our business would be negatively impacted. Purchasing decisions for our products and systems may be subject to delay due to many factors that are outside of our control, such as: • Political and economic uncertainties; • Time required for a prospective customer to recognize the need for our products; • Time and complexity for us to assess and determine a prospective customer’s IT environment; • Significant expense of digital identity products and network systems; • Customer’s requirement for customized features and functionalities; • Turnover of key personnel at existing and prospective customers; • Customer’s internal budgeting process; and • Customer’s internal procedures for the approval of large purchases. Furthermore, the implementation process is subject to delays resulting from concerns associated with incorporating new technologies into existing networks, deployment of a new network system or preservation of existing network infrastructure and data migration to the new system. Full deployment of our technology and products for such networks, servers, or other host systems can be scheduled to occur over an extended period and the licensing of systems and products, including client and server software, smart cards, readers, and tokens, and the recognition of maintenance revenues would also occur over this period, thereby negatively impacting the results of our operations in the near term, resulting in unanticipated fluctuations from quarter to quarter. The market for our products is still developing and if the industry adopts standards or a platform different from our platform, then our competitive position would be negatively affected. The market for digital identity products is still emerging and is also experiencing consolidation. The evolution of the market is in a constant state of flux that may result in the development of different network computing platforms and industry standards that are not compatible with our current products or technologies. 15 We believe that smart cards are an emerging platform for providing digital identity for network applications and services. Our business model is premised on the smart card becoming a common access platform for network computing in the future. Further, we have focused on developing our products for certain operating systems related to smart card deployment and use. Should platforms or form factors other than the smart card emerge as a preferred platform or should operating systems other than the specific systems we have focused on emerge as preferred operating systems, our current product offerings could be at a disadvantage. If this were to occur, our future growth and operating results could be negatively affected. The acquisitions of RSA Security, Inc. by EMC Corporation and Alacris by Microsoft are expected to create a more difficult competitive environment for us and may result in the broader adoption of their platforms and systems, which compete with ours. In addition, the digital identity market lacks industry-wide standards. While we are actively engaged in discussions with industry peers to define what these standards should be, it is possible that any standards eventually adopted could prove disadvantageous to or incompatible with our business model and product lines. Uncertainty surrounding the Homeland Security Presidential Directive #12 may affect sales of our products to government agencies. If our products do not comply with the requirements of Homeland Security Presidential Directive #12, we may not be able to sell to agencies that must comply with this Directive. We may be adversely affected by operating in international markets. Our international operations subject us to risks associated with operating in foreign markets, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. International sales and expenses make up a substantial portion of our business. A severe economic decline in one of our major foreign markets could make it difficult for our customers to pay us on a timely basis. Any such failure to pay, or deferral of payment, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. During the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005 and the nine-month transition period ended September 30, 2004, markets outside of North America accounted for 57%, 47% and 53%, respectively, of total revenue. We face a number of additional risks inherent in doing business in international markets, including among others: • Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • Potentially adverse tax consequences; • Export controls relating to encryption technology; • Tariffs and other trade barriers; • Difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • Laws that restrict our ability, and make it costly to reduce our workforce; • Changing economic or political conditions; • Exposures to different legal standards; • Burden of complying with a variety of laws and legal systems; • Fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and • Seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months in Europe as well as other parts of the world. While we prepare our financial statements in U.S. Dollars, we have historically incurred a significant portion of our expenses in Euros and in British Pounds. We expect that a significant portion of our expenses will be incurred in euros and in the Australian Dollar, as well as in other currencies, although to a lesser extent. Fluctuations in the value of these currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar have caused and will continue to cause 16 dollar-translated amounts to vary from period-to-period. Due to the constantly changing currency exposures and the substantial volatility of currency exchange rates, we cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon future operating results. Failure to fully implement new information systems may adversely affect our business. The two companies we acquired in fiscal 2005 had IT systems that were incompatible with our systems. These acquisitions resulted in a need to upgrade our operational, financial, and management information systems. In particular, we were required to improve our accounting and financial reporting systems in order to accommodate our growth and expansion of operations abroad. We implemented a new enterprise resource planning system, including an accounting and financial bookkeeping system for tracking and reporting our financial information during fiscal 2006. While we believe that the system once fully implemented, will enable us to operate more efficiently and will enhance our ability to provide timely and accurate reporting, the failure to fully implement the system, or if errors are found in the newly-implemented system, could impact our ability to sell and deliver our products, which could in turn materially and adversely impact our business, including our ability to meet our revenue and expense targets. We rely on strategic relationships with other companies to develop and market our products. If we are unable to enter into additional relationships, or if we lose an existing relationship, our business could be harmed. Our success depends on establishing and maintaining strategic relationships with other companies to develop, market, and distribute our technology and products and, in some cases, to incorporate our technology into their products. Part of our business strategy has been to enter into strategic alliances and other cooperative arrangements with other companies in the industry. We are currently involved in cooperative efforts to incorporate our products into the products of others, to jointly engage in research and development efforts, and to jointly engage in marketing efforts and reseller arrangements. To date, none of these relationships is exclusive, and some of our strategic partners have cooperative relationships with certain of our competitors. If we are unable to enter into cooperative arrangements in the future or if we lose any of our current strategic or cooperative relationships, our business could be adversely affected. We do not control the time and resources devoted to such activities by parties with whom we have relationships. In addition, we may not have the resources available to satisfy our commitments, which may adversely affect these relationships. These relationships may not continue, may not be commercially successful, or may require the expenditure of significant financial, personnel, and administrative resources from time to time. Further, certain of our products and services compete with the products and services of our strategic partners, which may adversely affect our relationships with these partners, which could adversely affect our business. Our operating results could suffer if we are subject to an intellectual property infringement claim. We may face claims of infringement on proprietary rights of others that could subject us to costly litigation and possible restriction on the use of such proprietary rights. There is a risk that our products infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties. While we currently do not believe that our products infringe on proprietary rights of third parties, infringement or invalidity claims may nevertheless be asserted or prosecuted against us and our products may be found to have infringed the rights of third parties. Such claims are costly to defend and could subject us to substantial litigation costs. If any claims or actions are asserted against us, we may be required to modify our products or may be forced to obtain a license for such intellectual property rights. However, we may not be able to modify our products or obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, despite precautions that we take, it may be possible for competitors to copy or reverse-engineer aspects of our current or future products, to independently develop similar or superior technology, or to design around the patents we own. Monitoring unauthorized use and transfer of our technology is difficult and 17 technology piracy currently is and can be expected to continue to be a persistent problem. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the United States. It may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights through litigation, arbitration or other adversarial proceedings, which could be costly and distracting to management, and there is no assurance that we would prevail in any such proceedings. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 