ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors That May Affect Results of Operations and Financial Condition Set forth below are certain risks and uncertainties that could affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and/or stock price. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem less significant also may impair our business operations. Risks Relating to the Pending Merger Our business and stock price may be materially and adversely affected if the merger with ASSA ABLOY is not completed. On October 11, 2010, we entered into a merger an agreement of merger with ASSA ABLOY and Merger Sub, which provides for the merger of Merger Sub with and into ActivIdentity, with pursuant to which ActivIdentity surviving would survive the merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of ASSA ABLOY. The announcement of the planned merger could have an adverse effect on our revenues in the near term if customers delay, defer, or cancel purchases in response to the announcement. To the extent that the announcement of the merger creates uncertainty among our current or potential customers contemplating purchases of our products or services such that several large customers, or a significant group of small customers, delay purchase decisions pending completion of the planned merger, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected, our quarterly revenues could be substantially below the expectations of market analysts and the market price for our shares of common stock could decline. Furthermore, activities relating to the proposed merger and related uncertainties could cause employees to seek alternative employment and weaken our ability to recruit qualified personnel which could detract from our ability to generate revenue and control costs. In addition, completion of the pending merger is subject to certain conditions, including approval by the holders of our common stock of ActivIdentity stockholders. We cannot be certain that these conditions will be met or waived, that the necessary stockholder approval will be obtained or that we will be able to successfully consummate the merger as currently contemplated under the merger agreement or at all. If the merger is not completed, we could be subject to a number of risks that may materially and adversely affect our business and stock price, including: •the diversion of our management's attention from our day to day business and the unavoidable disruption to our employees and our relationships with customers which, in turn, may detract from our ability to grow revenues and minimize costs and lead to a loss of market position that we might be unable to regain; •the market price of our shares of common stock may decline to the extent the current market price of those shares reflects a market assumption that the merger will be completed; 12 Table of Contents •under certain circumstances we could be required to pay ASSA ABLOY a termination fee of approximately $5.0 million; •we may experience a negative reaction to any termination of the merger from our customers, employees or affiliates which may adversely impact our future results of operations as a stand-alone entity; and •the amount of the costs, fees and expenses and charges related to the merger. Restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to the completion of the pending merger with ASSA ABLOY may have a negative impact on our operating results. We have agreed to certain restrictions on the conduct of our business in connection with the proposed merger with ASSA ABLOY that require us to conduct our business in the ordinary course consistent with past practices, subject to specific limitations. These restrictions may delay or prevent us from undertaking business opportunities that may arise pending completion of the merger. Risks Relating to Our Business We have a history of losses and we may experience losses in the foreseeable future. We have not achieved profitability and we may incur losses for the foreseeable future. In fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, we incurred losses of approximately $5.7 million, $5.5 million, and $76.5 million, respectively. As of September 30, 2010, our accumulated deficit was $334.3 million, which represents our net losses since inception. Although we had approximately $78.2 million in cash and cash equivalents, and investments as of September 30, 2010, we may not be able to raise additional capital in the event that our current cash and cash equivalents are insufficient. We will need to achieve incremental revenue growth and manage our costs to achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may be unable to sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis thereafter. It is possible that our revenue will grow at a slower rate than we anticipate or that operating expenses will increase beyond our current run rate. The current global economic slowdown could slow customer orders, as well as anticipated revenue growth, and could further delay our prospects for operating profitability. Our cost-reduction initiatives may not result in the anticipated savings or more efficient operations and may harm our long-term viability. Over the past several years, we have implemented extensive cost cutting measures and have incurred significant cost-reduction charges as we have attempted to streamline operations, improve efficiency, and reduce costs. We expect that we may undertake further cost-reduction initiatives in the future as we realign our business around areas of strategic focus. Although we believe that it has been and will continue to be necessary to reduce the size and cost of our operations to improve our performance, the reduction in our operations may make it more difficult to develop and market new products and to compete successfully with other companies in our industry. In addition, many of the employees who have been terminated as part of our cost-reduction activities possessed specific knowledge or expertise that may prove to have been important to our operations, and we may be required to rehire them or to hire persons with similar skills in order to develop new products to increase our revenue. These efforts may not result in anticipated cost savings, making it difficult for us to achieve profitability. These cost-reduction initiatives may also preclude us from making complementary acquisitions and/or other potentially significant expenditures that could improve our product offerings, competitiveness or long-term prospects. 13 Table of Contents Our operating results may continue to be adversely affected by the current economic environment, unfavorable market and economic conditions. The current global economic environment may continue to have a negative impact on demand for our services, our business and our foreign operations. The economic environment has or may negatively impact, among other things: •Current and future demand for our products; •Our customers' continued growth and development of their businesses and our customers' abilities to continue as going concerns; •The ability of our customers to maintain their business; •Price competition for our products and services; •The price of our common stock; or •Our liquidity. In addition, to the extent that the economic environment impacts specific industry and geographic sectors in which many of our customers are concentrated, that may further negatively impact our business. If the economic and market conditions in the U.S. and globally do not improve, or if they further deteriorate, we may experience material adverse impacts on our business, operating results and financial position as a consequence of the above factors or otherwise. We derive revenue from only a limited number of products and we do not have a diversified product base. Substantially all of our revenue is derived from the sale of our credential management and strong authentication systems and products. We anticipate that substantially all of our future revenue, if any, will also be derived from these products. If for any reason our sale of these products is impeded or if we divest existing product lines as part of our ongoing strategic realignment, and we have not diversified our product offerings, our business and results of operations could be harmed. We have reduced our product offerings as part of our prior restructuring initiatives to focus on our core products and do not expect to diversify our product offerings in the foreseeable future. Our customer base is highly concentrated and the loss of any one of these customers or delay in anticipated orders could adversely affect our business. Our customers consist primarily of medium to large enterprises, governments, system integrators, resellers, distributors, and OEMs. Historically, we have experienced a concentration of revenue in certain of our channel partners and customers. In fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, one customer accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue. Additionally, a substantial portion of our total product revenue is generated from the governmental sector. In fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008, worldwide government business accounted for approximately 10%, 19%, and 20%, respectively, of total product revenue. Although government spending is currently higher in light of various economic recovery initiatives, diversion of government resources to economic recovery programs and reductions in state and local government spending may harm our business. We expect future revenue variability in this sector due to fluctuations in government ordering patterns and frequent delays associated with larger programs. Our operating results would be adversely affected if any of the following events occur: •The loss of significant customers; •The failure of our significant customers to pay us due to their financial difficulties or for any other reason; 14 Table of Contents •The failure of any of our significant channel partners to renew their contracts upon expiration, or the termination by these partners of their contracts; •The divestiture of products or product lines, which would cause the loss of related revenue; or •Delays in orders from governmental agencies. We expect to continue to depend upon a small number of large customers for a substantial portion of our revenue, and the occurrence of any of the above events could further extend our reliance on remaining customers. Our quarterly gross and net margins are difficult to predict, and if we miss quarterly financial expectations, our stock price could decline. Our quarterly revenue, expense levels, and operating results are difficult to predict and fluctuate from quarter to quarter. It is likely that our operating results in some periods will vary from the guidance we have provided, or otherwise not meet investor expectations. If this happens, the market price of our common stock is likely to decline. Fluctuations in our future quarterly operating results may be caused by many factors, including: •The size and timing of customer orders which are received unevenly and unpredictably throughout a fiscal year and may be subject to seasonality relating to the United States federal government's fiscal year and related spending patterns; •The mix of products licensed and types of license agreements; •The effect of generally accepted accounting principles on the timing of revenue recognition; for example, if prices for our products or services vary significantly, we may not maintain vendor specific objective evidence of fair value of undelivered elements which could result in deferring revenue to future periods; •The timing of customer payments; •The size and timing of revenue recognized in advance of actual customer billings and customers with installment payment schedules that may result in higher accounts receivable balances; •Changes in financial markets, which could adversely affect the value of our assets and our liquidity; •The relative mix of our software and services revenue, as well as the relative mix of product offerings, which could change in connection with strategic realignment initiatives; •The application of new accounting regulations, which could negatively impact results; and •Changes in currency exchange rates. We have a long and often complicated sales cycle, which can result in significant revenue fluctuations between periods. The sales cycle for our products is typically long and subject to a number of significant risks over which we have little control. The typical sales cycle is six to nine months for an enterprise customer and over twelve months for a network service provider or government. As our operating expenses are based on anticipated revenue levels, a small fluctuation in the timing of sales can cause our operating results to vary significantly between periods. If revenue falls significantly below anticipated levels, our business would be negatively impacted. 15 Table of Contents Purchasing decisions for our products and systems may be subject to delay due to many factors that are outside of our control, such as: •Political and economic uncertainties; •Time required for a prospective customer to recognize the need for our products; •Time and complexity for us to assess and determine a prospective customer's IT environment; •Customer's requirements for customized features and functionalities; •Turnover of key personnel at existing and prospective customers; •Customer's internal budgeting process; and •Customer's internal procedures for the approval of large purchases. Furthermore, the implementation process can be subject to delays resulting from issues associated with incorporating new technologies into existing networks, deployment of a new network system or preservation of existing network infrastructure and data migration to the new system. Full deployment of our technology and products for such networks, servers, or other host systems can be scheduled to occur over an extended period and the licensing of systems and products, including client and server software, smart cards, readers, and tokens, and the recognition of maintenance revenue, would also occur over this period. This can negatively impact the results of our operations in the near term, resulting in unanticipated fluctuations between periods. The market for some of our products is still developing and if the industry adopts standards or platforms different from our platform, then our competitive position would be negatively affected. The market for digital identity products is still emerging and is also experiencing consolidation. The evolution of the market is in a constant state of flux that may result in the development of different network computing platforms and industry standards that are not compatible with our current products or technologies. We believe smart cards are an emerging platform for providing digital identity for network applications and for the procurement of services from private enterprise and government agencies. A key element of our business model is premised on the smart card becoming a common access platform for network computing in the future. Further, we have focused on developing our products for certain operating systems related to smart card deployment and use. Should platforms or form factors other than the smart card emerge as a preferred platform or should operating systems other than the specific systems we have focused on emerge as preferred operating systems, our current product offerings could be at a disadvantage. If this were to occur, our future growth and operating results would be negatively affected. Additionally, consolidation within this industry has created a more difficult competitive environment and may result in the broader adoption of competing platforms and systems. In addition, the digital identity market has evolving industry-wide standards. While we are actively engaged in discussions with industry peers to define what these standards should be, it is possible that any standards eventually adopted could prove disadvantageous to or incompatible with our business model and product lines. Uncertainty surrounding the Homeland Security Presidential Directive No. 12 ("HSPD 12") may affect sales of our products to government agencies. If our products do not comply with the requirements of HSPD 12, we may not be able to sell to agencies that must comply with this Directive. 16 Table of Contents We rely on strategic relationships with other companies to develop and market our products. If we are unable to enter into additional relationships, or if we lose an existing relationship, our business could be harmed. Our success depends on establishing and maintaining strategic relationships with other companies to develop, market, and distribute our technology and products and, in some cases, to incorporate our technology into their products or their technology into our products. Part of our business strategy has been to enter into strategic alliances and other cooperative arrangements with other companies in the industry. We are currently involved in cooperative efforts to incorporate our products into the products of others, to incorporate their technology into our products, to jointly engage in research and development efforts, and to jointly engage in marketing efforts and reseller arrangements. To date, none of these relationships are exclusive, and some of our strategic partners have cooperative relationships with certain of our competitors. If we are unable to enter into cooperative arrangements in the future or if we lose any of our current strategic or cooperative relationships, our business could be adversely affected. We do not control the time and resources devoted to such activities by parties with whom we have relationships. In addition, we may not have the resources available to satisfy our commitments, which may adversely affect these relationships. These relationships may not continue, may not be commercially successful, or may require the expenditure of significant financial, personnel, and administrative resources from time to time. Further, certain of our products and services compete with the products and services of our strategic partners, which may adversely affect our relationships with these partners, which could adversely affect our business. We may be adversely affected by operating in international markets. Our international operations subject us to risks associated with operating in foreign markets, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. International revenue and expenses make up a substantial portion of our business. A severe economic decline in any of our major foreign markets could make it difficult for our customers to pay us on a timely basis. Any such failure to pay, or deferral of payment, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. During fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008, markets outside of North America accounted for 46%, 53%, and 58%, respectively, of total revenue. We face a number of additional risks inherent in doing business in international markets, including: •Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; •Potentially adverse tax consequences; •Export controls relating to encryption technology; •Tariffs and other trade barriers; •Difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; •Laws that restrict our ability, and make it costly, to reduce our workforce; •Changing political conditions; •Exposures to different legal standards; and •Burden of complying with a variety of laws and legal systems. While we present our financial statements in U.S. dollars, a significant portion of our business is conducted outside of the United States, and we incur a significant portion of our expenses in Euros, Australian dollars and British Pounds. Some revenue transactions are denominated in foreign 17 Table of Contents currencies as well. Significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollars and foreign currencies may adversely affect our future operating results. Due to fluctuations in foreign currencies we recorded losses of $0.7 million, $0.8 million and $2.0 million in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively on our consolidated statements of operations. We rely on certain key employees. If we are not able to build and maintain a strong management team, our ability to manage and expand our business will be impacted. Employee turnover could adversely impact our revenue, costs and productivity. We rely on the services of Grant Evans, our Chief Executive Officer, Jacques Kerrest, our Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer, and John Boyer, our Senior Vice President Worldwide Engineering. Michael Sotnick, our Executive Vice President Worldwide Sales and Field Operations, left the company in July 2010. We may experience further turnover in management in the future and, as a result, we face challenges in effectively managing our operations during these periods of transition. If new key employees and other members of our senior management team cannot work together effectively, or if other members of our senior management team resign, our ability to effectively manage our business may be impacted. In part due to our restructuring efforts over the past several years, we have become increasingly dependent on a smaller number of employees. If key employees leave ActivIdentity, we suffer loss of productivity while new employees are hired or promoted into vacant positions. The departure of highly skilled key employees sometimes results in a loss of talent or knowledge that is difficult to replace. There are also costs of recruiting and relocating new employees to fill these positions. For example, the recruiting market for experienced personnel is very competitive, and we may be limited in our ability to attract and retain key operations talent if the need should arise. New employees must learn the ActivIdentity organization, products, and procedures. All of this takes time, reduces productivity and increases cost. The potential adverse impact of employee turnover is greater for situations involving senior positions in the Company, and our turnover rate may be higher if key employees decided to leave on their own accord. If turnover increases, the adverse impact of turnover could materially affect our costs, productivity, or ability to respond quickly to the competitive environment. We have recorded significant write downs in recent periods for impairment of acquired intangible assets and goodwill and may have similar write downs in future periods. During fiscal 2010, in connection with the CoreStreet acquisition, we recorded $9.4 million of goodwill on our balance sheet representing approximately 8% of our total assets. At September 30, 2009, we had no goodwill on our balance sheet. As of September 30, 2010, we had $9.1 million of other intangible assets on our balance sheet representing approximately 8% of our total assets. If the Company's enterprise value at a future date is lower than the enterprise value as of our last impairment evaluation, the evaluation could result in an impairment of goodwill and / or other intangible asset impairment charges if the circumstances indicate that impairment may exist. Also, if our estimates of future undiscounted cash flows to be derived from the use of our other intangible assets drop below the carrying value of such assets, an additional impairment charge may be required. We may terminate additional non-core activities in the future or determine that our long-lived assets or acquired intangible assets have been impaired. Any future termination or impairment related charges could have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents While we believe we currently have effective internal control over financial reporting, we may identify a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting that could cause investors to lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and result in a decrease in the value of our securities. We will continue to evaluate, upgrade and enhance our internal controls. Because of inherent limitations, our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements, errors or omissions, including those caused by human error, the circumvention of overriding controls, the violation of company policies or practices (whether negligent or willful) or fraud, and any projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal controls to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or that the degree of compliance with our policies or procedures may deteriorate. While we believe that we have effective internal control over financial reporting, if we fail to maintain the effectiveness of our internal control including any failure to implement or difficulty in implementing required new or improved controls, our business and results of operations could be harmed, the results of operations we report could be subject to adjustments, we could fail to be able to provide reasonable assurance as to our financial results or the effectiveness of our internal controls or meet our reporting obligations, and there could be a material adverse effect on our stock price and business. Implementation of the new FASB rules and the issuance of new laws or other accounting regulations, or reinterpretation of existing laws or regulations, could materially impact our stated results. From time to time, the government, courts and financial accounting rule making bodies issue new laws or accounting regulations, or modify or reinterpret existing ones. There may be other future changes in FASB rules or in laws, interpretations or regulations that would affect our financial results or the way in which we present them. Additionally, changes in the laws or regulations could have adverse effects on our business that would affect our ability to compete, both nationally and internationally. We must comply with European governmental regulations setting environmental standards. Our activities in Europe require that we comply with European Union Directives with respect to product quality assurance standards and environmental standards. Directive 2002/95/ec of the European Parliament on the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, known as the RoHS Directive, became effective on July 1, 2006. If we fail to maintain compliance, we may be restricted from selling our products in the European Union and this could adversely affect our results of operations. European Directive 2002/96/EC on waste, electrical and electronic equipment, known as the WEEE Directive, makes manufacturers of electrical and electronic equipment financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. The WEEE Directive became effective on August 13, 2005. We may incur financial responsibility for the collection, recycling, treatment or disposal of products covered under the WEEE Directive. Because the EU member states have not fully implemented the WEEE Directive, the nature and extent of the costs to comply and fees or penalties associated with noncompliance are unknown at this time. Costs to comply with the WEEE Directive and similar future legislation, if applicable, may also include legal and regulatory costs and insurance costs. We may also be required to take additional reserves for costs associated with compliance with these regulations. We or our suppliers may be impacted by new regulations related to climate change. In addition to the European environmental regulations noted above, we or our suppliers may become subject to new laws enacted with regards to climate change. In the event that new laws are enacted or current laws are modified in countries in which we or our suppliers operate, our flow of product may be impacted and/or the costs of handling the potential waste associated with our products 19 Table of Contents may increase dramatically, either of which could result in a significant negative impact on our ability to operate or operate profitably. The protection of our intellectual property rights is crucial to our business and, if third parties use our intellectual property without our consent, our business could be damaged. Our success is heavily dependent on protecting intellectual property rights in our proprietary technology, which is primarily our software. It is difficult for us to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights for a number of reasons, including: •Policing unauthorized copying or use of our products is difficult and expensive; •Software piracy is a persistent problem in the software industry; •Our patents may not cover the full scope of our product offerings and may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or may be enforceable only in certain jurisdictions; and •Our shrink-wrap licenses may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions. In addition, the laws of many countries do not protect intellectual property rights to as great an extent as those of the United States and France. We believe that effective protection of intellectual property rights is unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries, creating an increased risk of potential loss of proprietary technology due to piracy and misappropriation. We also seek to protect our confidential information and trade secrets through the use of nondisclosure agreements with our employees, contractors, vendors, and partners. However, there is a risk that our trade secrets may be disclosed or published without our authorization, and in these situations it may be difficult or costly for us to enforce our rights and retrieve published trade secrets. We sometimes contract with third parties to provide development services to us, and we routinely ask them to sign agreements that require them to assign intellectual property to us that is developed on our behalf. However, there is a risk that they will fail to disclose to us such intellectual property, or that they may have inadequate rights to such intellectual property. This could happen, for example, if they failed to obtain the necessary invention assignment agreements with their own employees. We have been involved in litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, and we may become involved in further litigation in the future. This type of litigation is costly and could negatively impact our operating results. See "Item 3 Legal Proceedings." Our operating results could suffer if we are subject to intellectual property infringement claims. We may face claims of infringement on proprietary rights of others that could subject us to costly litigation and possible restriction on the use of such proprietary rights. There is a risk that potential infringement or invalidity claims may be asserted or prosecuted against us and our products may be found to have infringed the rights of third parties. Such claims are costly to defend and could subject us to substantial litigation costs. If any claims or actions are asserted against us, we may be required to modify our products or may be forced to obtain a license for such intellectual property rights. However, we may not be able to modify our products or obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. 20 Table of Contents We may pursue strategic acquisitions and investments that could have an adverse effect on our business if they are unsuccessful. As part of our business strategy, we have acquired companies, technologies, product lines and personnel to complement our internally developed products. We expect that we will have a similar business strategy going forward. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: •Our acquisitions may not enhance our business strategy; •We may apply overly optimistic valuation assumptions and models for the acquired businesses, and we may not realize anticipated cost synergies and revenue as quickly as we expected or at all; •We may not integrate acquired businesses, technologies, products, personnel and operations effectively; •Management's attention may be diverted from our day to day operations, resulting in disruption of our ongoing business; •We may not adopt an appropriate business model for integrated businesses, particularly with respect to our "go to market" strategy; •Customer demand for the acquired company's products may not meet our expectations; •We may incur higher than anticipated costs for the support and development of acquired products; •The acquired products may not be compatible with our existing products, making integration of acquired products difficult and costly and potentially delaying the release of other, internally developed products; •We may have insufficient revenue to offset the increased expenses associated with acquisitions; •We may not retain key employees, customers, distributors and vendors of the companies we acquire; •Ineffective internal controls of the acquired company may require remediation as part of the integration process; •We may be required to assume pre-existing contractual relationships, which may be costly for us to terminate and disruptive for our customers; •The acquisitions may result in infringement, trade secret, product liability or other litigation: and •If we are unable to acquire companies that facilitate our strategic objectives, we may not have sufficient time to develop our own products and may not remain competitive. As a result, it is possible that the contemplated benefits of these or any future acquisitions may not materialize within the time periods or to the extent anticipated. Changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations may adversely affect our effect tax rates. We are a U.S. based multinational organization subject to income taxes in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future results of operations. Our future effective tax rates could be unfavorable affected by changes in, or interpretation of, tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we do business, by lapses of the availability of the U.S. research and development tax credits, or by the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. 21 Table of Contents We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities as a result of inter-company transfer pricing policies. As a multinational organization, we conduct business and are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment and analysis is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision and related tax liabilities. In the ordinary course of a global business, intercompany transactions and calculations result in a variety of uncertain tax positions. Our intercompany pricing policies are subject to audits in the various foreign tax jurisdictions. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, there is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or potential tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have no unresolved staff comments as of the date of this filing. 