ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We are substantially dependent upon the success of our TH-070 and glufosfamide product candidates. Pivotal clinical trials for our products may not demonstrate efficacy or lead to regulatory approval. We will not be able to commercialize our lead product candidates, TH-070 and glufosfamide, until we obtain FDA approval in the United States or approval by comparable regulatory agencies in Europe and other countries. To satisfy FDA or foreign regulatory approval standards for the commercial sale of our product candidates, we must demonstrate in adequate and controlled clinical trials that our product candidates are safe and effective. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including biotechnology companies, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results in earlier clinical trials. For example, estimates of survival time in cancer trials or percentages or results obtained from small scale Phase 2 clinical trials are not necessarily indicative of the results in larger clinical trials. There can be no assurance that our ongoing clinical trials for symptomatic BPH will confirm results from our Phase 2 trial in Italy, will show that beneficial results of TH-070 will be sustained beyond 28 days, or will 25 Table of Contents lead to regulatory approval. We completed enrollment in March 2006 in a Phase 2 trial that was initiated in the United States in June 2005 and expect to complete enrollment in April 2006 in a Phase 3 trial that was initiated in August 2005 in several European countries and Canada for this indication; however, we expect regulatory agencies will require additional clinical trials and may require additional preclinical studies to support approval of TH-070 for the treatment of symptomatic BPH. A portion of the preclinical studies were completed by others in the early 1980s in connection with the development of the active ingredient in TH-070 as an anti-cancer agent. If these studies are deemed inadequate, additional studies to satisfy FDA requirements would need to be conducted, which could result in delays in obtaining any regulatory approvals. Phase 1 and Phase 2 safety trials of glufosfamide were conducted on small numbers of patients and were designed to evaluate the activity of glufosfamide on a preliminary basis. However, these trials were not designed to demonstrate the efficacy of glufosfamide as a therapeutic agent. There can be no assurance that results similar to our Phase 1 and 2 trials will be observed in subsequent trials, or that such results will prove to be statistically significant or demonstrate safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA or other regulatory agencies. In Phase 2 studies, glufosfamide has not shown clinical activity for the treatment of glioblastoma and has only demonstrated marginal activity for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer. The clinical trial we commenced in September 2004 for the second-line treatment of pancreatic cancer is intended to serve as a pivotal Phase 3 trial. If the results from this trial are not persuasive as determined by the FDA, then this trial will not serve as the basis for FDA approval. We may decide to conduct additional clinical trials or other studies, or the FDA may require us to conduct additional clinical trials or other studies prior to accepting our NDA or granting marketing approval. Our product candidates must undergo rigorous clinical testing, the results of which are uncertain and could substantially delay or prevent us from bringing them to market. Before we can obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate, we must undertake extensive clinical testing in humans to demonstrate safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA or other regulatory agencies. Clinical trials of new drug candidates sufficient to obtain regulatory marketing approval are expensive and take years to complete. We cannot be assured of successfully completing clinical testing within the time frame we have planned, or at all. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent us from receiving regulatory approval or commercializing our product candidates, including the following: • our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical and/or preclinical testing or to abandon programs; • the results obtained in earlier stage testing may not be indicative of results in future trials; • trial results may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or other regulatory agencies; • enrollment in our clinical trials for our product candidates may be slower than we anticipate, resulting in significant delays; • we, or regulators, may suspend or terminate our clinical trials if the participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; and • the effects of our product candidates on patients may not be the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or other characteristics that may delay or preclude regulatory approval or limit their commercial use, if approved. Completion of clinical trials depends, among other things, on our ability to enroll a sufficient number of patients, which is a function of many factors, including: • the therapeutic endpoints chosen for evaluation; • the eligibility criteria defined in the protocol; 26 Table of Contents • the size of the patient population required for analysis of the trial’s therapeutic endpoints; • our ability to recruit clinical trial investigators and sites with the appropriate competencies and experience; • our ability to obtain and maintain patient consents; and • competition for patients by clinical trial programs for other treatments. We may experience difficulties in enrolling patients in our clinical trials, which could increase the costs or affect the timing or outcome of these trials. This is particularly true with respect to diseases with relatively small patient populations, such as pancreatic cancer, which is the indication we are currently testing for our glufosfamide product candidate. In addition, we are aware that our planned and future trials for TH-070 for the treatment of symptomatic BPH may be subject to competition for patients by competing trials, which could delay enrollment for our trials. We are subject to significant regulatory approval requirements, which could delay, prevent or limit our ability to market our product candidates. Our research and development activities, preclinical studies, clinical trials and the anticipated manufacturing and marketing of our product candidates are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and by comparable authorities in Europe and elsewhere. We require the approval of the relevant regulatory authorities before we may commence commercial sales of our product candidates in a given market. The regulatory approval process is expensive and time-consuming, and the timing of receipt of regulatory approval is difficult to predict. Our product candidates could require a significantly longer time to gain regulatory approval than expected, or may never gain approval. We cannot be assured that, even after expending substantial time and financial resources, we will obtain regulatory approval for any of our product candidates. A delay or denial of regulatory approval could delay or prevent our ability to generate product revenues and to achieve profitability. Changes in regulatory approval policies during the development period of any of our product candidates, changes in, or the enactment of, additional regulations or statutes, or changes in regulatory review practices for a submitted product application may cause a delay in obtaining approval or result in the rejection of an application for regulatory approval. Regulatory approval, if obtained, may be made subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which we may market a product. These limitations could adversely affect our potential product revenues. Regulatory approval may also require costly post-marketing follow-up studies. In addition, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and record-keeping related to the product will be subject to extensive ongoing regulatory requirements. Furthermore, for any marketed product, its manufacturer and its manufacturing facilities will be subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA or other regulatory authorities. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements may, among other things, result in fines, suspensions of regulatory approvals, product recalls, product seizures, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. The “Fast Track” designation for development of glufosfamide for the treatment of refractory pancreatic cancer may not lead to a faster development or regulatory review or approval process. If a drug is intended for the treatment of a serious or life-threatening condition and the drug demonstrates the potential to address unmet medical needs for this condition, the drug sponsor may apply for FDA “Fast Track” designation for a particular indication. Marketing applications filed by sponsors of products in Fast Track development may qualify for expedited FDA review under the policies and procedures offered by the FDA, but the Fast Track designation does not assure any such qualification. Although we have obtained a Fast Track designation from the FDA for glufosfamide for the treatment of second-line pancreatic cancer, we may not 27 Table of Contents experience a faster development process, review or approval compared to drugs considered for approval under conventional FDA procedures. In addition, the FDA may withdraw our Fast Track designation at any time. If we lose our Fast Track designation, the approval process may be lengthened. In addition, our Fast Track designation does not increase the likelihood that glufosfamide will receive regulatory approval for the treatment of second-line pancreatic cancer. Our product candidates are based on Metabolic Targeting, which is an unproven approach to therapeutic intervention. All of our product candidates are based on Metabolic Targeting, a therapeutic approach that targets fundamental differences in energy metabolism between normal and certain diseased cells. We have not, nor to our knowledge has any other company, received regulatory approval for a drug based on this approach. There can be no assurance that our approach will lead to the development of approvable or marketable drugs. In addition, the FDA or other regulatory agencies may lack experience in evaluating the safety and efficacy of drugs based on Metabolic Targeting, which could lengthen the regulatory review process, increase our development costs and delay or prevent commercialization of our product candidates. Our product candidates may have undesirable side effects that prevent or delay their regulatory approval or limit their use if approved. Glufosfamide is known to cause reversible toxicity to the bone marrow and kidneys, as well as nausea and vomiting. TH-070, which we are developing to treat patients with BPH, has been investigated by others as a male contraceptive because of its effects on spermatogenesis, fertility and shrinkage of testes in animals. As a consequence, these may be significant side effects that may or may not be reversible in patients treated with TH-070 for BPH. Clinical studies to investigate these side effects can be lengthy and expensive, and may be required prior to additional Phase 3 efficacy studies for TH-070. Furthermore, in clinical trials involving cancer patients at doses significantly higher than the doses of TH-070 currently being investigated for BPH, muscle and testicular pain have been observed. These side effects or others identified in the course of our clinical trials or that may otherwise be associated with our product candidates may outweigh the benefits of our product candidates. Side effects may prevent or delay regulatory approval or limit market acceptance if our products are approved. Delays in clinical testing could result in increased costs to us and delay our ability to obtain regulatory approval and commercialize our product candidates. Significant delays in clinical testing could materially impact our product development costs and delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. We do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin on time, will need to be redesigned or will be completed on schedule, if at all. Clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in: • obtaining regulatory approval to commence a trial; • obtaining clinical materials; • reaching agreement on acceptable clinical study agreement terms with prospective sites; • obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a study at a prospective site; and • recruiting patients to participate in a study. Orphan drug exclusivity affords us limited protection, and if another party obtains orphan drug exclusivity for the drugs and indications we are targeting, we may be precluded from commercializing our product candidates in those indications. We intend to seek orphan drug designation for the cancer indications that our glufosfamide and 2DG product candidates are intended to treat. Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug 28 Table of Contents designation to drugs intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is defined by the FDA as a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States. The company that obtains the first FDA approval for a designated orphan drug indication receives marketing exclusivity for use of that drug for that indication for a period of seven years. Orphan drug exclusive marketing rights may be lost if the FDA later determines that the request for designation was materially defective, or if the manufacturer is unable to assure sufficient quantity of the drug. Orphan drug designation does not shorten the development or regulatory review time of a drug. Because the prevalence of BPH is greater than 200,000 individuals in the United States, TH-070 for the treatment of symptomatic BPH is not eligible for orphan drug designation and we cannot rely on this protection to provide marketing exclusivity. Orphan drug exclusivity may not prevent other market entrants. A different drug, or, under limited circumstances, the same drug may be approved by the FDA for the same orphan indication. The limited circumstances include an inability to supply the drug in sufficient quantities or where a new formulation of the drug has shown superior safety or efficacy. As a result, if our product is approved and receives orphan drug status, the FDA can still approve other drugs for use in treating the same indication covered by our product, which could create a more competitive market for us. Moreover, due to the uncertainties associated with developing pharmaceutical products, we may not be the first to obtain marketing approval for any orphan drug indication. Even if we obtain orphan drug designation, if a competitor obtains regulatory approval for glufosfamide or 2DG for the same indication we are targeting before we do, we would be blocked from obtaining approval for that indication for seven years, unless our product is a new formulation of the drug that has shown superior safety or efficacy, or the competitor is unable to supply sufficient quantities. Even if we obtain regulatory approval, our marketed drugs will be subject to ongoing regulatory review. If we fail to comply with continuing United States and foreign regulations, we could lose our approvals to market drugs and our business would be seriously harmed. Following initial regulatory approval of any drugs we may develop, we will be subject to continuing regulatory review, including review of adverse drug experiences and clinical results that are reported after our drug products become commercially available. This would include results from any post-marketing tests or vigilance required as a condition of approval. The manufacturer and manufacturing facilities we use to make any of our drug candidates will also be subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA. If a previously unknown problem or problems with a product or a manufacturing and laboratory facility used by us is discovered, the FDA or foreign regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product or on the manufacturing facility, including requiring us to withdraw the product from the market. Any changes to an approved product, including the way it is manufactured or promoted, often require FDA approval before the product, as modified, can be marketed. We and our contract manufacturers will be subject to ongoing FDA requirements for submission of safety and other post-market information. If we and our contract manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: • issue warning letters; • impose civil or criminal penalties; • suspend or withdraw our regulatory approval; • suspend or terminate any of our ongoing clinical trials; • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us; • impose restrictions on our operations; • close the facilities of our contract manufacturers; or • seize or detain products or require a product recall. 29 Table of Contents The FDA and foreign regulatory authorities impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses and marketing of pharmaceutical products. FDA rules for pharmaceutical promotion require that a company not promote an unapproved drug or an approved drug for an unapproved use. In addition to FDA requirements, regulatory and law enforcement agencies, such as the Department of Health and Human Services’ Office of Inspector General and the United States Department of Justice, monitor and investigate pharmaceutical sales, marketing and other practices. For example, sales, marketing and scientific/educational grant programs must comply with the Medicare-Medicaid Anti-Fraud and Abuse Act, as amended, the False Claims Act, as amended, and similar state laws. In recent years, actions by companies’ sales forces and marketing departments have been scrutinized intensely to ensure, among other things, that actions by such groups do not qualify as “kickbacks” to healthcare professionals. A “kickback” refers to the provision of any item of value to a healthcare professional or other person in exchange for purchasing, recommending, or referring an individual for an item or service reimbursable by a federal healthcare program. These kickbacks increase the expenses of the federal healthcare program and may result in civil penalties, criminal prosecutions, and exclusion from participation in government programs, any of which would adversely affect our financial condition and business operations. In addition, even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which would also harm our financial condition. Comparable laws also exist at the state level. We are, and in the future may be, subject to new federal and state requirements to submit information on our open and completed clinical trials to public registries and databases. In 1997, a public registry of open clinical trials involving drugs intended to treat serious or life-threatening diseases or conditions was established under the Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act, or FDMA, in order to promote public awareness of and access to these clinical trials. Under FDMA, pharmaceutical manufacturers and other trial sponsors are required to post the general purpose of these trials, as well as the eligibility criteria, location and contact information of the trials. Since the establishment of this registry, there has been significant public debate focused on broadening the types of trials included in this or other registries, as well as providing for public access to clinical trial results. A voluntary coalition of medical journal editors has adopted a resolution to publish results only from those trials that have been registered with a no-cost, publicly accessible database, such as www.clinicaltrials.gov. The Pharmaceuticals and Research Manufacturers of America has also issued voluntary principles for its members to make results from certain clinical studies publicly available and has established a website for this purpose. Other groups have adopted or are considering similar proposals for clinical trial registration and the posting of clinical trial results. The state of Maine has enacted legislation, with penalty provisions, requiring the disclosure of results from clinical trials involving drugs marketed in the state, and similar legislation has been introduced in other states. Federal legislation was introduced in the fall of 2004 to expand www.clinicaltrials.gov and to require the inclusion of study results in this registry. In some states, such as New York, prosecutors have alleged that a lack of disclosure of clinical trial information constitutes fraud, and these allegations have resulted in settlements with pharmaceutical companies that include agreements to post clinical trial results. Our failure to comply with any clinical trial posting requirements could expose us to negative publicity, fines, and other penalties, all of which could materially harm our business. Risks Related to Our Financial Performance and Operations We have incurred losses since our inception and anticipate that we will incur significant continued losses for the next several years, and our future profitability is uncertain. We are a development stage company with a limited operating history and no current source of revenue from the sale of our product candidates. We have incurred losses in each year since our inception in 2001. We have devoted substantially all of our resources to research and development of our product candidates. Prior to our initial public offering in February 2005, we financed our operations primarily through private placements of 30 Table of Contents our equity securities. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we had a net loss of $44.4 million, and we had an accumulated deficit of $79.0 million. We do not expect to generate any revenue from the sale of our product candidates at least within the next couple of years. Clinical trials are costly, and as we continue to advance our product candidates through development, we expect our research and development expenses to increase significantly, especially as we continue our pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial for glufosfamide and our Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials for TH-070 for the treatment of BPH. In addition, we plan to expand our operations, and will need to expand our infrastructure, hire additional personnel and begin commercialization activities. As a result, we expect that our annual operating losses will increase significantly over the next several years. To attain profitability, we will need to develop products successfully and market and sell them effectively. We have never generated revenue from our product candidates, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to do so in the future. If our TH-070 or glufosfamide product candidates fail to show positive results in our ongoing clinical trials, or we do not receive regulatory approval for either of them, or if these product candidates do not achieve market acceptance even if approved, we may not become profitable. If we fail to become profitable, or if we are unable to fund our continuing losses, we may be unable to continue our clinical development programs. We may need substantial additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which could force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our drug discovery, product development and commercialization activities. Developing drugs, conducting clinical trials, and commercializing products is expensive. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing, acquisition or other arrangements that we may establish; • the progress and cost of our clinical trials and other research and development activities; • the costs and timing of obtaining regulatory approvals; • the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent applications, claims, patents and other intellectual property rights; • the cost and timing of securing manufacturing capabilities for our clinical product candidates and commercial products, if any; and • the costs of establishing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. We believe that our cash on hand and marketable securities will be sufficient to fund our projected operating requirements through at least 2007, including our current and planned clinical trials of TH-070, glufosfamide, and 2DG, the initial development of a commercialization effort, general corporate purposes and the support and expansion of our product candidate pipeline. We expect to seek funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain products candidates that we might otherwise seek to develop or commercialize independently. There can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into any such arrangements on reasonable terms, if at all. We may need to raise additional capital or incur indebtedness to continue to fund our operations in the future. Our ability to raise additional funds will depend on financial, economic and market conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that sufficient funds will be available to us when required or on satisfactory terms. If necessary funds are not available, we may have to delay, reduce the scope or eliminate some of our development programs, which could delay the time to market for any or all of our product candidates. Raising additional funds may cause dilution to existing stockholders or require us to relinquish valuable rights. We may raise additional funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on 31 Table of Contents acceptable terms, or at all. To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience further dilution. Debt financing, if available, may subject us to restrictive covenants that could limit our flexibility in conducting future business activities. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it will be necessary to relinquish some rights to our clinical product candidates. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities, we may be unable to successfully commercialize our cancer and BPH product candidates. If our cancer product candidates are approved for commercial sale, we plan to establish our own sales force to market them in the United States and potentially Europe. We may also establish a sales force to market TH-070 for the treatment of symptomatic BPH. We currently have no experience in selling, marketing or distributing pharmaceutical products and do not have a sales force to do so. Before we can commercialize any products, we must develop our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, which is an expensive and time consuming process and our failure to do this successfully could delay any product launch. Our efforts to develop internal sales and marketing capabilities could face a number of risks, including: • we may not be able to attract a sufficient number of qualified sales and marketing personnel; • the cost of establishing a marketing or sales force may not be justifiable in light of the potential revenues for any particular product; and • our internal sales and marketing efforts may not be effective. Our success depends in part on recruiting and retaining key personnel and, if we fail to do so, it may be more difficult for us to execute our business strategy. We are currently a small organization and will need to hire additional personnel to execute our business strategy successfully. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management, clinical and scientific personnel and on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with leading academic institutions, clinicians and scientists. We are highly dependent upon our senior management and scientific staff, particularly our Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Harold E. Selick, and our Chief Medical Officer, Dr. Alan B. Colowick. We do not have employment contracts with Drs. Selick or Colowick. The loss of the services of Drs. Selick and Colowick or one or more of our other key employees could delay or have an impact on the successful completion of our clinical trials or the commercialization of our product candidates. As of December 31, 2005, we had 66 employees. Our success will depend on our ability to hire additional qualified personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology field is intense. We face competition for personnel from other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, universities, public and private research institutions and other organizations. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel on acceptable terms given the competition for such personnel. If we are unsuccessful in our recruitment efforts, we may be unable to execute our strategy. As we expand our operations, we may experience difficulties in managing our growth. Future growth will impose significant added responsibilities on management, including the need to identify, recruit, train and integrate additional employees. In addition, rapid and significant growth will place a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. As our operations expand, we expect that we will need to manage additional relationships with collaborators and various third parties, including contract research organizations, manufacturers and others. Our ability to manage our operations and growth will require us to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, it may be difficult for us to execute our business strategy. 32 Table of Contents Because we are a newly public company, we have little experience complying with public company obligations, including recently enacted changes in securities laws and regulations. Compliance with these requirements will increase our costs and although we have hired additional management and financial resources we still may fail to comply. We are a small company with limited resources. Prior to our initial public offering in February 2005, we operated as a private company and were not subject to many of the requirements applicable to public companies. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing the company’s financial statements must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. We expect this requirement will first apply to our annual report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2006. Substantial uncertainty exists regarding our ability to comply with these requirements by applicable deadlines. If we are unable to complete the required assessment as to the adequacy of our internal control reporting or if we conclude that our internal control over financial reporting are not effective or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006 and future year ends, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial reporting. Our facilities in California are located near an earthquake fault, and an earthquake or other natural disaster or resource shortage could disrupt our operations. Important documents and records, such as hard copies of our laboratory books and records for our product candidates, are located in our corporate headquarters at a single location in Redwood City, California, near active earthquake zones. In the event of a natural disaster, such as an earthquake, drought or flood, or localized extended outages of critical utilities or transportation systems, we do not have a formal business continuity or disaster recovery plan, and could therefore experience a significant business interruption. In addition, California from time to time has experienced shortages of water, electric power and natural gas. Future shortages and conservation measures could disrupt our operations and could result in additional expense. Although we maintain business interruption insurance coverage, the policy specifically excludes coverage for earthquake and flood. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties We rely on third parties to manufacture TH-070, glufosfamide and 2DG. If these parties do not manufacture the active pharmaceutical ingredients or finished products of satisfactory quality, in a timely manner, in sufficient quantities or at an acceptable cost, clinical development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed. We do not currently own or operate manufacturing facilities; consequently, we rely and expect to continue to rely on third parties for the production of clinical and commercial quantities of our product candidates. We have not yet entered into any long term manufacturing or supply agreement for any of our product candidates. Our current and anticipated future dependence upon others for the manufacture of our product candidates may adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize any product candidates on a timely and competitive basis. We believe we have sufficient supplies of TH-070 drug product that have been tested and released by Pharmaceutics International, Incorporated for our United States Phase 2 and our European Phase 3 trial of TH-070 for the treatment of BPH. Additionally, for future trials, we have ordered and received TH-070 active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, from an alternative supplier that has been formulated into drug product. Failure of any of these suppliers to continue to provide acceptable API or drug product could delay clinical trials or commercialization of TH-070, if approved. 33 Table of Contents Our initial supplies of glufosfamide were prepared by a subsidiary of Baxter International, Inc. and were used to initiate our current clinical trials. We are currently using glufosfamide API and drug product that were manufactured, tested and released by other suppliers and we believe this material will be sufficient through November 2006. We are in the process of qualifying an additional vendor to manufacture glufosfamide API. If we experience unexpected delays, or if the API does not meet specifications, we may experience a significant delay in the completion of our pivotal Phase 3 trial. We believe that we have a sufficient supply of 2DG for our anticipated clinical trials over the next year, although there can be no assurance that these supplies will remain stable and usable during this period. If these materials are not stable, we may experience a significant delay in our 2DG clinical program. We will need to enter into additional agreements for additional supplies of each of our product candidates to complete clinical development and/or commercialize them. There can be no assurance that we can do so on favorable terms, if at all. For regulatory purposes, we will have to demonstrate comparability of the same drug substance from different manufacturers. Our inability to do so could delay our clinical programs. To date, our product candidates have been manufactured in quantities sufficient for preclinical studies or clinical trials. If any of our product candidates is approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies for commercial sale, we will need to have it manufactured in commercial quantities. We may not be able to increase the manufacturing capacity for any of our product candidates in a timely or economic manner successfully or at all. Significant scale-up of manufacturing may require additional validation studies, which the FDA and other regulatory agencies must review and approve. If we are unable to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for a product candidate, the regulatory approval or commercial launch of that product candidate may be delayed, or there may be a shortage of supply which could limit our sales. In addition, if the facility or the equipment in the facility that produces our product candidates is significantly damaged or destroyed, or if the facility is located in another country and trade or commerce with such country is interrupted, we may be unable to replace the manufacturing capacity quickly or inexpensively. The inability to obtain manufacturing agreements, the damage or destruction of a facility on which we rely for manufacturing or any other delays in obtaining supply would delay or prevent us from completing our clinical trials and commercializing our current product candidates. We have no control over our manufacturers’ and suppliers’ compliance with manufacturing regulations, and their failure to comply could result in an interruption in the supply of our product candidates. The facilities used by our contract manufacturers must undergo an inspection by the FDA for compliance with current good manufacturing practice, or cGMP regulations, before the respective product candidates can be approved. In the event these facilities do not receive a satisfactory cGMP inspection for the manufacture of our product candidates, we may need to fund additional modifications to our manufacturing process, conduct additional validation studies, or find alternative manufacturing facilities, any of which would result in significant cost to us as well as a delay of up to several years in obtaining approval for such product candidate. In addition, our contract manufacturers, and any alternative contract manufacturer we may utilize, will be subject to ongoing periodic inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies for compliance with cGMP regulations, similar foreign regulations and other regulatory standards. We do not have control over our contract manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. Any failure by our third-party manufacturers or suppliers to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on them (including fines, injunctions and civil penalties), failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our product candidates, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of product candidates or products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and their failure to perform their obligations in a timely or competent manner may delay development and commercialization of our product candidates. We are using clinical research organizations to oversee our ongoing TH-070 and glufosfamide clinical trials and expect to use the same or similar organizations for our future clinical trials. There are numerous alternative 34 Table of Contents sources to provide these services. However, we may face delays outside of our control if these parties do not perform their obligations in a timely or competent fashion or if we are forced to change service providers. This risk is heightened for our clinical trials conducted outside of the United States, where it may be more difficult to ensure that studies are conducted in compliance with FDA requirements. Completion of our ongoing studies of TH-070 and glufosfamide are dependent upon the continuing accrual of patients at clinical sites outside the United States. Any third-party that we hire to conduct clinical trials may also provide services to our competitors, which could compromise the performance of their obligations to us. If we experience significant delays in the progress of our clinical trials and in our plans to file NDAs, the commercial prospects for product candidates could be harmed and our ability to generate product revenue would be delayed or prevented. We may rely on strategic collaborators to market and sell our potential treatment for BPH, TH-070, either outside the United States or worldwide and our potential cancer products outside the United States. We have no sales and marketing experience. We may contract with strategic collaborators to sell and market, when and if approved, TH-070 for the treatment of symptomatic BPH either outside the United States or worldwide and our cancer products outside the United States. We may not be successful in entering into collaborative arrangements with third parties for the sale and marketing of any products. Any failure to enter into collaborative arrangements on favorable terms could delay or hinder our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates and could increase our costs of development and commercialization. Dependence on collaborative arrangements will subject us to a number of risks, including: • we may not be able to control the amount or timing of resources that our potential collaborators may devote to the product candidates; • we may be required to relinquish important rights, including intellectual property, marketing and distribution rights; • we may have lower revenues than if we were to market and distribute such products ourselves; • should a collaborator fail to commercialize one of our product candidates successfully, we may not receive future milestone payments or royalties; • a collaborator could separately move forward with a competing product candidate developed either independently or in collaboration with others, including our competitors; • our collaborators may experience financial difficulties; • business combinations or significant changes in a collaborator’s business strategy may also adversely affect a collaborator’s willingness or ability to complete its obligations under any arrangement; and • our collaborators may operate in countries where their operations could be adversely affected by changes in the local regulatory environment or by political unrest. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property TH-070 and 2DG are known compounds that are not protected by patents on the composition of the molecules. TH-070 and 2DG are known compounds that are no longer eligible for patent protection on the composition of the molecules. A patent of this nature, known as a compound per se patent, excludes others from making, using or selling the patented compound, regardless of how or for what purpose the compound is formulated or intended to be used. Consequently, these compounds and certain of their uses are in the public domain. Acraf, S.p.a. once marketed TH-070 in certain European countries for the treatment of cancer, and we cannot prevent its sale for that indication or for any indications where we have not received patent protection. We have an issued U.S. patent for the use of TH-070 for the treatment of BPH and we may obtain patents for TH-070 to treat BPH outside the U.S., but there may be off-label use of competitive products even for our patented indication. 35 Table of Contents We have an issued U.S. patent for the use of orally administered 2-DG for the treatment of cancer at certain doses and administration schedules, and we have in-licensed one issued patent that covers the treatment of breast cancer with 2DG in combination with paclitaxel or docetaxel. We also have applications related to the issued licensed patent that cover other 2DG combination therapies, but there can be no assurance that any other patent application under this license will be issued. Others may develop and market 2DG for the treatment of cancer, however, if they develop treatments using dosing and administration schedules or combination therapies outside the scope of our patents or in contravention of our patent rights. Metabolic Targeting is not protected by patents, and others may be able to develop competitive drugs using this approach. We do not have issued patents or patent applications that would prevent others from taking advantage of Metabolic Targeting generally to discover and develop new therapies for cancer, BPH or other diseases. Consequently, our competitors may seek to discover and develop potential therapeutics that operate by mechanisms of action that are the same or similar to the mechanisms of action of our product candidates. We are dependent on patents and proprietary technology, both our own and those licensed from others. If we or our licensors fail to adequately protect this intellectual property or if we otherwise do not have exclusivity for the marketing of our products, our ability to commercialize products could suffer. Our commercial success will depend in part on our ability and the ability of our licensors to obtain and maintain patent protection sufficient to prevent others from marketing our product candidates, as well as to successfully defend and enforce these patents against infringement and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We will only be able to protect our product candidates from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable patents cover our product candidates or they are effectively protected by trade secrets. If our patent applications do not result in issued patents, or if our patents, or those patents we have licensed are found to be invalid, we will lose the ability to exclude others from making, using or selling the inventions claimed therein. We have a limited number of patents and pending patent applications. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents has emerged to date in the United States. The laws of many countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as United States laws, and those countries may lack adequate rules and procedures for defending our intellectual property rights. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. We do not know whether any of our patent applications will result in the issuance of any patents and we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed in our patent applications or in the patent applications we license from others. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example: • we or our licensors might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our or our licensors’ pending patent applications and issued patents, and we may have to participate in expensive and protracted interference proceedings to determine priority of invention; • we or our licensors might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative product candidates or duplicate any of our or our licensors’ product candidates; • our or our licensors’ pending patent applications may not result in issued patents; • our or our licensors’ issued patents may not provide a basis for commercially viable products or may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties; 36 Table of Contents • others may design around our or our licensors’ patent claims to produce competitive products that fall outside the scope of our or our licensors’ patents; • we may not develop or in-license additional patentable proprietary technologies related to our product candidates; or • the patents of others may prevent us from marketing one or more of our product candidates for one or more indications that may be valuable to our business strategy. Moreover, an issued patent does not guarantee us the right to practice the patented technology or commercialize the patented product. Third parties may have blocking patents that could be used to prevent us from commercializing our patented products and practicing our patented technology. Our issued patents and those that may be issued in the future may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to prevent competitors from marketing related product candidates or could limit the length of the term of patent protection of our product candidates. In addition, the rights granted under any issued patents may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technology. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop similar technologies. Moreover, because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that, before any of our product candidates can be commercialized, any related patent may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization, thereby reducing any advantage of the patent. For glufosfamide, the major European counterparts to the U.S. patent expire in 2009 and the U.S. patent expires in 2014. Patent term extension may not be available for these patents. We rely on trade secrets and other forms of non-patent intellectual property protection. If we are unable to protect our trade secrets, other companies may be able to compete more effectively against us. We rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect, especially in the pharmaceutical industry, where much of the information about a product must be made public during the regulatory approval process. Although we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States may be less willing to or may not protect trade secrets. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties or if we are forced to engage in an interference proceeding, it will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in that litigation or interference would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to commercialize our product candidates depends on our ability to develop, manufacture, market and sell our product candidates without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous United States and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the general field of BPH and cancer therapies or in fields that otherwise may relate to our product candidates. We are also aware of a patent that claims certain agents, including 2DG, to inhibit the import of glucose-6-phosphate into the endoplasmic reticulum of a cell. We do not know whether administration of 2DG for our intended uses inhibits such import. If it does, we would be required to license the patent or risk that a claim of infringement could be made. If we are shown to infringe, we could be enjoined from use or sale of the claimed invention if we are unable to prove that the patent is invalid. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that our product candidates or any other compound that we may develop, may infringe, or which may trigger an interference proceeding regarding one of our owned or licensed patents or applications. There could also be existing patents of which we are not aware that our product candidates may inadvertently infringe or which may become involved in an interference proceeding. 37 Table of Contents The biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. For so long as our product candidates are in clinical trials, we believe our clinical activities fall within the scope of the exemptions provided by 35 U.S.C. Section 271(e) in the United States, which exempts from patent infringement liability activities reasonably related to the development and submission of information to the FDA. As our clinical investigational drugs progress toward commercialization, the possibility of a patent infringement claim against us increases. We attempt to ensure that our active clinical investigational drugs and the methods we employ to manufacture them, as well as the methods for their use we intend to promote, do not infringe other parties’ patents and other proprietary rights. However, there can be no assurance they do not, and competitors or other parties may assert that we infringe their proprietary rights in any event. We may be exposed to future litigation based on claims that our product candidates, or the methods we employ to manufacture them, infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Our ability to manufacture and commercialize our product candidates may depend on our ability to demonstrate that the manufacturing processes we employ and the use of our product candidates do not infringe third-party patents. If third-party patents were found to cover our product candidates or their use or manufacture, we could be required to pay damages or be enjoined and therefore unable to commercialize our product candidates, unless we obtained a license. A license may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Risks Related to Our Industry If our competitors are able to develop and market products that are more effective, safer or more affordable than ours, or obtain marketing approval before we do, our commercial opportunities may be limited. Competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries is intense and continues to increase, particularly in the area of cancer treatment. Most major pharmaceutical companies and many biotechnology companies are aggressively pursuing oncology development programs, including traditional therapies and therapies with novel mechanisms of action. Our cancer product candidates face competition from established biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, including sanofi-aventis Group, Eli Lilly and Company, Pfizer and SuperGen and from generic pharmaceutical manufacturers. In particular, our glufosfamide product candidate for pancreatic cancer will compete with Gemzar, marketed by Eli Lilly and Company, and 5-flurouracil, or 5-FU, a generic product which is sold by many manufacturers. In addition, Camptosar®, marketed by Pfizer, Avastin, marketed by Genentech, Inc., Erbitux, marketed by Imclone Systems Incorporated and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, and Taxotere, marketed by the sanofi-aventis Group, are under investigation as possible combination therapies for first-line treatment of pancreatic cancer. Additionally OSI Pharmaceuticals and Genentech market Tarceva as a combination therapy with gemcitabine for the first-line treatment of pancreatic cancer. Therion Biologics has reported that they have completed enrollment in a Phase 3 trial for PANVAC™-VF, a vaccine, for the second-line treatment for pancreatic cancer. Currently available BPH drugs are marketed by large pharmaceutical companies with significantly more experience and resources than we have. Our TH-070 product candidate for the treatment of symptomatic BPH will compete with alpha adrenergic receptor blockers, including Flomax®, co-marketed and distributed by Boehringer Ingelheim Abbott Laboratories and Astellas Pharma Inc., Cardura®, marketed by Pfizer, and Xatral®, marketed by the sanofi-aventis Group and with 5-alpha reductase inhibitors, including Proscar®, marketed by Merck, and Avodart®, marketed by GlaxoSmithKline. In addition, we are aware that several other companies are developing drugs to treat BPH. We also will compete with other treatment alternatives such as surgery and other non-drug interventions. We also face potential competition from academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions engaged in the discovery and development of drugs and therapies. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing, sales and marketing than we do. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established pharmaceutical companies. 38 Table of Contents Our competitors may succeed in developing products that are more effective, have fewer side effects and are safer or more affordable than our product candidates, which would render our product candidates less competitive or noncompetitive. These competitors also compete with us to recruit and retain qualified scientific and management personnel, establish clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as to acquire technologies and technology licenses complementary to our programs or advantageous to our business. Moreover, competitors that are able to achieve patent protection, obtain regulatory approvals and commence commercial sales of their products before we do, and competitors that have already done so, may enjoy a significant competitive advantage. There is a substantial risk of product liability claims in our business. If we do not obtain sufficient liability insurance, a product liability claim could result in substantial liabilities. Our business exposes us to significant potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development, manufacturing and marketing of human therapeutic products. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: • delay or failure to complete our clinical trials; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • decreased demand for our product candidates; • injury to our reputation; • litigation costs; • substantial monetary awards against us; and • diversion of management or other resources from key aspects of our operations. If we succeed in marketing products, product liability claims could result in an FDA investigation of the safety or efficacy of our products, our manufacturing processes and facilities or our marketing programs. An FDA investigation could also potentially lead to a recall of our products or more serious enforcement actions, or limitations on the indications for which they may be used, or suspension or withdrawal of approval. We have product liability insurance that covers our clinical trials up to a $5 million annual aggregate limit. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if marketing approval is obtained for our product candidates or any other compound that we may develop. However, insurance coverage is increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or at all, and the insurance coverage that we obtain may not be adequate to cover potential claims or losses. Even if we receive regulatory approval to market our product candidates, the market may not be receptive to our product candidates upon their commercial introduction, which would negatively affect our ability to achieve profitability. Our product candidates may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community. The degree of market acceptance of any approved products will depend on a number of factors, including: • the effectiveness of the product; • the prevalence and severity of any side effects; • potential advantages or disadvantages over alternative treatments; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • the strength of marketing and distribution support; 39 Table of Contents • the price of the product, both in absolute terms and relative to alternative treatments; and • sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. If our product candidates receive regulatory approval but do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, healthcare payors and patients, we may not generate product revenues sufficient to attain profitability. If third-party payors do not adequately reimburse patients for any of our product candidates, if approved for marketing, we may not be successful in selling them. Our ability to commercialize any products successfully will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement will be available from governmental and other third-party payors, both in the United States and in foreign markets. Even if we succeed in bringing one or more products to the market, the amount reimbursed for our products may be insufficient to allow us to compete effectively and could adversely affect our profitability. Reimbursement by a governmental and other third-party payor may depend upon a number of factors, including a governmental or other third-party payor’s determination that use of a product is: • a covered benefit under its health plan; • safe, effective and medically necessary; • appropriate for the specific patient; • cost-effective; and • neither experimental nor investigational. Obtaining reimbursement approval for a product from each third-party and governmental payor is a time-consuming and costly process that could require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost- effectiveness data for the use of our products to each payor. We may not be able to provide data sufficient to obtain reimbursement. Eligibility for coverage does not imply that any drug product will be reimbursed in all cases or at a rate that allows us to make a profit. Interim payments for new products, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover our costs and may not become permanent. Reimbursement rates may vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on payments allowed for lower-cost drugs that are already reimbursed, may be incorporated into existing payments for other products or services, and may reflect budgetary constraints and/or Medicare or Medicaid data used to calculate these rates. Net prices for products also may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs or by any future relaxation of laws that restrict imports of certain medical products from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the United States. The health care industry is experiencing a trend toward containing or reducing costs through various means, including lowering reimbursement rates, limiting therapeutic class coverage and negotiating reduced payment schedules with service providers for drug products. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, or MMA, became law in November 2003 and created a broader prescription drug benefit for Medicare beneficiaries. The MMA also contains provisions intended to reduce or eliminate delays in the introduction of generic drug competition at the end of patent or nonpatent market exclusivity. The impact of the MMA on drug prices and new drug utilization over the next several years is unknown. The MMA also made adjustments to the physician fee schedule and the measure by which prescription drugs are presently paid, changing from Average Wholesale Price to Average Sales Price. The effects of these changes are unknown but may include decreased utilization of new medicines in physician prescribing patterns, and further pressure on drug company sponsors to provide discount programs and reimbursement support programs. There have been, 40 Table of Contents and we expect that there will continue to be, federal and state proposals to constrain expenditures for medical products and services, which may affect reimbursement levels for our future products. In addition, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services frequently change product descriptors, coverage policies, product and service codes, payment methodologies and reimbursement values. Third-party payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates and may have sufficient market power to demand significant price reductions. Foreign governments tend to impose strict price controls, which may adversely affect our future profitability. In some foreign countries, particularly in the European Union, prescription drug pricing is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our product candidate to other available therapies. If reimbursement of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our profitability will be negatively affected. We may incur significant costs complying with environmental laws and regulations, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to significant liabilities. Our research and development activities use biological and hazardous materials that are dangerous to human health and safety or the environment. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and wastes resulting from these materials. We are also subject to regulation by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, or OSHA, the California and federal environmental protection agencies and to regulation under the Toxic Substances Control Act. OSHA or the California or federal Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, may adopt regulations that may affect our research and development programs. We are unable to predict whether any agency will adopt any regulations that could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in the ordinary course of our business in complying with these laws and regulations. Although we believe our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from the use, storage, handling or disposal of hazardous materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could significantly exceed our insurance coverage. We may not be able to conduct, or contract with others to conduct, animal testing in the future, which could harm our research and development activities. Certain laws and regulations relating to drug development require us to test our product candidates on animals before initiating clinical trials involving humans. Animal testing activities have been the subject of controversy and adverse publicity. Animal rights groups and other organizations and individuals have attempted to stop animal testing activities by pressing for legislation and regulation in these areas and by disrupting these activities through protests and other means. To the extent the activities of these groups are successful, our research and development activities may be interrupted or delayed. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may be volatile. The stock markets in general, and the markets for biotechnology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These 41 Table of Contents broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In addition, since our initial public offering, the average daily trading volume of our common stock was 112,896 shares through February 28, 2006. The limited trading volume of our stock may contribute to its volatility. Price declines in our common stock could result from general market and economic conditions and a variety of other factors, including: • adverse results or delays in our clinical trials of TH-070, glufosfamide or 2DG; • announcements of FDA non-approval of our product candidates, or delays in the FDA or other foreign regulatory agency review process; • adverse actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to our product candidates, clinical trials, manufacturing processes or sales and marketing activities; • announcements of technological innovations, patents or new products by our competitors; • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • any lawsuit involving us or our product candidates; • announcements concerning our competitors, or the biotechnology or pharmaceutical industries in general; • developments concerning any strategic alliances or acquisitions we may enter into; • actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; • changes in recommendations by securities analysts or lack of analyst coverage; • deviations in our operating results from the estimates of analysts; • sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors and five percent stockholders or sales of substantial amounts of common stock; • changes in accounting principles; and • loss of any of our key scientific or management personnel. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, litigation has often been brought against that company. If litigation of this type is brought against us, it could be extremely expensive and divert management’s attention and our company’s resources. If our officers, directors and largest stockholders choose to act together, they may be able to control our management and operations, acting in their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. As of March 17, 2006, our officers, directors and holders of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock beneficially own approximately 49.0% of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, will be able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with the interests of other stockholders, and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. A significant portion of our total outstanding shares have been restricted from immediate resale subsequent to our initial public offering in February 2005 and follow-on offering in October 2005, but these shares are now tradable subject to Rule 144. If there are substantial sales of our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the price of our common stock. As of March 17, 2006, 37,284,469 shares of common stock were outstanding. Up to 42 Table of Contents 8,357,624 of those shares are held by affiliates and may only be sold in compliance with the volume limitations of Rule 144. These volume limitations restrict the number of shares that may be sold by an affiliate in any three-month period to the greater of 1% of the number of shares then outstanding, which equals approximately 372,844, or the average weekly trading volume of our common stock during the four calendar weeks preceding the filing of a notice on Form 144 with respect to the sale. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage another company from acquiring us and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions of Delaware law, where we are incorporated, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our board of directors. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock without any need for action by stockholders; • providing for a classified board of directors with staggered terms; • requiring supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; • eliminating the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 