Risk Factors The Company’s operating strategy and structure may make it difficult to respond quickly to operational, financial or regulatory issues, which could negatively affect the Company’s financial results. Further, the Company’s business initiatives may not be successful. The Company’s businesses report their results to NFP’s corporate headquarters on a monthly basis. The Company has implemented a consolidated general ledger, cash management and management information systems that allow NFP to monitor the overall performance of its businesses. However, if the Company’s businesses delay reporting results, correcting inaccurate results, or informing NFP of negative business developments, such as the loss of an important client or relationship, a threatened liability or a regulatory inquiry, NFP may not be able to take action to remedy the situation on a timely basis. Effective January 1, 2010, NFP reorganized its businesses into three reportable segments: the CCG, the ICG and the ASG. The reorganization and the segments’ business strategies are intended to improve the allocation of the Company’s resources and the quality and scope of the services provided to the Company’s clients, as well as facilitate internal growth, the diversification of product and service offerings, brand recognition and other business initiatives. There are substantial uncertainties associated with these efforts, including the investment of significant time and resources, the possibility that these efforts will be unprofitable, and the risk of additional liabilities associated with these efforts. Further, businesses that are marketed under the single NFP brand may expose NFP to additional risks. Factors such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences may also impact the successful implementation of these efforts. Acquired businesses may not perform as expected, leading to restructures in the economic relationship between NFP and its principals or employees. NFP’s dependence on the individuals who manage its businesses may limit NFP’s ability to manage the Company effectively and profitably. While the Company intends that acquisitions will improve profitability, past or future acquisitions may not be accretive to earnings or otherwise meet operational or strategic expectations. The failure of businesses to perform as expected after acquisition may have an adverse effect on the Company’s internal earnings and revenue growth rates, and may result in impairment charges and/or generate losses or charges to its earnings if businesses are disposed. In the course of NFP’s operating history, certain subsidiaries have required a change in the economic relationship between NFP and its principals. These restructures generally result in either temporary or permanent reductions in base and target earnings and/or changes in the ratio of base to target earnings. Restructures frequently involve business concessions by principals, such as the relinquishment of operational control. NFP may restructure transactions in the future as the need arises. Several businesses in the ICG, particularly in the retail life business line, have been restructured such that NFP has a right to a lower amount of Target EBITDA and a lower priority interest in such business’s earnings than originally structured; in some instances, NFP and the business essentially have a revenue sharing agreement regardless of the level of the business’s earnings. Challenging economic conditions, poor operating performance, the cultural incompatibility of a firm’s management team with the Company, issues specific to a principal or employee, or other circumstances may lead to restructures or increased dispositions, which may lead to losses incurred by the Company. The individuals who manage NFP’s businesses, whether they are principals or employees, are responsible for ordinary course operational decisions, including personnel, culture and office location. Such individuals maintain the primary relationship with clients and in some cases, vendors. Unsatisfactory performance by these individuals could hinder the Company’s ability to grow and could have a material adverse effect on its business. Although NFP maintains internal controls that allow it to oversee the Company’s operations, and non-ordinary course transactions require NFP’s consent, the Company is exposed to losses resulting from day-to-day decisions of the individuals who manage NFP’s businesses. To the extent that a wholly-owned subsidiary has liabilities or expenses in excess of what it can pay, NFP may be liable for such payment. 13 Table of Contents A depressed economic environment and its impact on consumer confidence could negatively affect the Company. The economic environment remains challenging, and many economic indicators continue to point to a slow and uneven recovery. Adverse general economic conditions may cause potential customers to defer or forgo the purchase of products that the Company’s businesses sell. This uncertain environment has reduced the demand for the Company’s services and the products the Company distributes, particularly in the life insurance market. 2010’s temporary estate tax laws have also had a continuing impact on the high net worth life insurance market by increasing the value of the estate that is exempt from federal estate tax and thereby decreasing the size of the target market. The Company’s businesses earn recurring commission revenue on certain products over a period after the initial sale, provided the customer retains the product. Customers may surrender or terminate these products due to a depressed economic environment, ending this recurring revenue. The tightening of credit in financial markets also adversely affects the ability of customers to obtain financing for certain products and services the Company distributes. General economic and market factors may also reduce the size or slow the rate of growth of the Company’s corporate clients. Insolvencies associated with an economic downturn could adversely affect the Company’s business through the loss of clients or by hampering the Company’s ability to place business. Further, reduced employee headcount due to widespread layoffs could also impact the Company’s corporate benefits sales. Additionally, unfavorable market performance and volatility in the capital markets or in the prices of specific securities may reduce fees to the Company’s businesses that earn commissions based on assets under management. Finally, if the Company’s earnings deteriorate, it is possible that NFP would fail to comply with the terms of its credit facility, which could have a significant impact on the Company. The Company may not be successful in acquiring suitable acquisition candidates, which could adversely affect the Company’s growth. The structure of recent acquisition transactions may also expose the Company to unique risks that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In executing on its acquisition strategy, NFP focuses on businesses that provide high levels of recurring revenue and strategically complement its existing businesses. NFP’s acquisition activity may be inhibited in light of economic conditions, and there can be no assurance that the Company’s level of acquisition activity and growth from acquisitions will be consistent with past levels or will be strategically successful. If the Company is not successful in acquiring suitable acquisition candidates, its business, earnings, revenue and strategies may be adversely affected. Additionally, acquisitions involve a number of special risks, such as difficulties in the integration of acquired operations and retention of personnel, entry into unfamiliar markets, unanticipated problems or legal liabilities, and tax and accounting issues, some or all of which could have a material adverse effect on the results of the Company’s operations, financial condition and cash flows. In transactions where NFP utilizes an employment contract acquisition model or management contract buyout, the managers of such businesses typically become employees subject to an employment agreement, rather than principals subject to a management agreement. Consequently, NFP does not have a contractual right to a percentage of such businesses’ Target EBITDA or a priority interest in base earnings, as it typically does in the type of acquisition model involving a management contract. Further, the compensation that is paid to employees in an employment contract acquisition model or management contract buyout may be lower than fees that would have been paid to principals if such transactions had been structured pursuant to a management agreement, which may lead to restructures or additional negotiations with such employees. The Company competes with numerous integrated financial services organizations, insurance brokers, insurance companies, banks and other entities to acquire high quality businesses. Many of the Company’s 14 Table of Contents competitors have substantially greater financial resources and may be able to outbid NFP for these acquisition targets. If NFP does identify suitable candidates, NFP may not be able to complete any such acquisition on terms that are commercially acceptable to the Company. If NFP is unable to complete acquisitions, it may have an adverse effect on the Company’s earnings or revenue growth and negatively impact the Company’s strategic plan. Because the revenue the Company earns on the sale of certain insurance products is based on premiums and commission rates set by insurers, any decreases in these premiums or commission rates, or actions by carriers seeking repayment of commissions, could result in revenue decreases or expenses to the Company. The Company derives revenue from commissions on the sale of insurance products to clients that are paid by the insurance underwriters from whom the Company’s clients purchase insurance. Because payments for the sale of insurance products are processed internally by insurance underwriters, the Company may not receive a payment that is otherwise expected in any particular period until after the end of that period, which can adversely affect the Company’s ability to budget for significant future expenditures. Additionally, insurance underwriters or their affiliates may under certain circumstances seek the repayment of commissions as a result of policy lapse, surrender or rescission. As a result of the repayment of commissions, the Company may incur an expense in a particular period related to revenue previously recognized in a prior period and reflected in the Company’s financial statements. Such an expense could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition, particularly if the expense is greater than the amount of related revenue retained by the Company. The commission rates are set by insurance underwriters and are based on the premiums that the insurance underwriters charge. The potential for changes in premium rates is significant, due to pricing cyclicality in the insurance market. Commission rates and premiums can change based on prevailing legislative, economic and competitive factors that affect insurance underwriters. These factors, which are not within the Company’s control, include the capacity of insurance underwriters to place new business, underwriting and non-underwriting profits of insurance underwriters, consumer demand for insurance products, the availability of comparable products from other insurance underwriters at a lower cost and the availability of alternative insurance products, such as government benefits and self-insurance plans, to consumers. See also “—The Company is subject to risks related to healthcare reform legislation.” While the Company does not believe it has experienced any significant revenue reductions in the aggregate in its business to date due to changes in commission rates, the Company is aware of several instances in recent years of insurance underwriters reducing commission payments on certain life insurance and employee benefits products. Additionally, the elimination or modification of compensation arrangements, including contingent compensation arrangements and the adoption of internal initiatives to enhance compensation transparency, may also result in revenue decreases for the Company. The Company’s business may be adversely affected by restrictions and limitations under its credit facility. Changes in the Company’s ability to access capital could adversely affect the Company’s operations. On July 8, 2010, NFP entered into a $225.0 million credit agreement, among NFP, the lenders party thereto and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent (as amended, the “2010 Credit Facility”). NFP’s level of indebtedness may increase if expenditures are funded by borrowings under the 2010 Credit Facility. NFP’s level of indebtedness may also increase if anticipated contingent consideration payments increase, as these are accrued liabilities that are included in indebtedness pursuant to the terms of the 2010 Credit Facility. This additional indebtedness could require NFP to dedicate a greater portion of cash flow from operations to payments on such indebtedness, reducing the availability of the Company’s cash flow for other purposes. If the Company’s earnings deteriorate, it is possible that NFP would fail to comply with its financial covenants and be in default under the 2010 Credit Facility. Default under the 2010 Credit Facility resulting in its 15 Table of Contents acceleration would, subject to a 30-day grace period, trigger a default under the indenture governing NFP’s $125.0 million principal amount of 4.0% convertible senior notes due June 15, 2017 (the “2010 Notes”). In that case, the trustee under the 2010 Notes or the holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the 2010 Notes could accelerate their payment. Default under the 2010 Credit Facility would trigger a default under NFP’s convertible note hedge and warrant transactions entered into concurrently with NFP’s offering of 2010 Notes, in which case the applicable counterparties could designate early termination under these instruments. The restrictions in the 2010 Credit Facility may prevent NFP from taking actions that it believes would be in the best interest of the Company and its stockholders and may make it difficult for NFP to execute its business strategy successfully by reducing the Company’s flexibility in responding to changing business conditions. Subject to certain exceptions, the 2010 Credit Facility contains covenants that restrict the Company’s ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness or guarantees, create liens or other encumbrances on property or grant negative pledges, enter into a merger or similar transaction, sell or transfer certain property, make certain restricted payments or make certain advances or loans. A restrictive covenant in the 2010 Credit Facility limits the total balance of notes outstanding to principals that are entered into in connection with the over-advancement of fees to principals. To the extent NFP exceeds its covenant limit on the total balance of such notes outstanding, such advances in excess of the limit could, like any other violation of a restrictive covenant, lead to an event of default as defined under the 2010 Credit Facility. The occurrence and continuance of an event of default could result in, among other things, the acceleration of all amounts owing under the 2010 Credit Facility and the termination of the lenders’ commitments to make loans under the 2010 Credit Facility. NFP may not be able to access capital on acceptable terms, or raise additional capital in the future, which could result in the Company’s inability to achieve operational objectives. Any disruption in NFP’s access to capital could require the Company to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, acquisitions or other discretionary uses of cash. Certain events may dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. To the extent NFP issues any shares of common stock upon conversion of the 2010 Notes, the conversion of some or all of the 2010 Notes may dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders, which may be only partially offset by the convertible note hedge transactions, after settlement of the warrant transactions. The potential issuance of additional shares in connection with future financing activities or otherwise could substantially dilute the interests of current stockholders and adversely impact the price of NFP’s common stock. The price of NFP’s common stock may fluctuate significantly, which could negatively affect the Company and the holders of NFP’s common stock. The trading price of NFP’s common stock may be volatile in response to a number of factors, including a decrease in insurance premiums and commission rates, actual or anticipated variations in NFP’s quarterly financial results, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts and announcements by competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments. In addition, financial results may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause the market price of NFP’s common stock to decrease, perhaps significantly. Any volatility or a significant decrease in the market price of NFP’s common stock could also negatively affect the Company’s ability to make acquisitions using its common stock as consideration. In 2011, only cash was used as consideration for acquisitions and sub-acquisitions. In addition, stock markets have generally experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market prices of equity securities of many public companies have experienced wide price fluctuations not necessarily related to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of NFP’s common stock. In the past, securities class action lawsuits frequently have 16 Table of Contents been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of such companies’ securities. If any such litigation is initiated against NFP, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The Company’s business is subject to risks related to legal proceedings and governmental inquiries. The Company is subject to litigation, regulatory investigations and other claims arising out of its normal course business operations. The risks associated with these matters often may be difficult to assess or quantify and the existence and magnitude of potential claims often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. The Company may be subject to actions relating to the sale of insurance or financial products and services, or the suitability of such products and services. Actions and claims may result in the rescission of such sales; consequently, insurance or financial services companies may seek to recoup commissions paid to the Company. The Company is aware of a matter involving an insurance carrier regarding the placement of insurance policies for which certain Company subsidiaries provided services. The services generated payments of approximately $13.0 million in 2010, the majority of which was paid out to unrelated third parties. The insurance carrier that issued the policies initiated litigation against the policy owner and certain other parties, and in the third quarter of 2011, the parties to the litigation agreed to a rescission of the insurance policies. Other claims relating to the litigation remain pending. As a result of the rescission of the insurance policies, the insurance carrier may commence litigation against the Company or its subsidiaries for the return of some or all of the payments paid in connection with the placement of the insurance. The ultimate outcome of this matter is uncertain as the legal rights of the insurance carrier and the Company are unclear and subject to potential dispute. The outcome of this action or other actions cannot be predicted and such litigation or actions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. From time to time, the Company is subject to new laws and regulatory actions, including investigations. The insurance industry has been subject to a significant level of scrutiny by various regulatory bodies, including state attorneys general and insurance departments, concerning certain practices within the insurance industry. These practices include, without limitation, conducting stranger-owned life insurance sales in which the policy purchaser may not have a sufficient insurable interest as required by some states’ laws or regulations, the receipt of contingent commissions by insurance brokers and agents from insurance companies and the extent to which such compensation has been disclosed, bid rigging and related matters. There have been a number of revisions to existing, or proposals to modify or enact new, laws and regulations regarding insurance agents and brokers. These actions have imposed or could impose additional obligations on the Company with respect to the products sold by the Company’s businesses. For instance, the New York Insurance Department promulgated Regulation No. 194, which is effective as of January 1, 2011. Regulation No. 194 does not prohibit producers from accepting contingent commissions as compensation from insurers, but does obligate all insurance producers to abide by certain minimally prescribed uniform standards of compensation disclosure. In addition, some insurance companies have agreed with regulatory authorities to end the payment of contingent commissions on insurance products, which could impact the Company’s commissions that are based on the volume, consistency and profitability of business generated by the Company. If clients seek alternatives to the Company’s products and services, the volume and consistency of business could decrease, having a negative effect on the Company’s revenue. From time to time, NFP’s subsidiaries received subpoenas and other informational requests from governmental authorities. The Company has cooperated and will continue to cooperate fully with all governmental agencies. Management continues to believe that the resolution of these governmental inquiries will not have a material adverse impact on the Company’s consolidated financial position. NFP cannot predict the impact that any new laws, rules or regulations may have on the Company’s business and financial results. Given the current regulatory environment and the number of NFP’s subsidiaries operating 17 Table of Contents in local markets throughout the country, it is possible that the Company will become subject to further governmental inquiries and subpoenas and have lawsuits filed against it. Regulators may raise issues during investigations, examinations or audits that could, if determined adversely, have a material impact on the Company. The interpretations of regulations by regulators may change and statutes may be enacted with retroactive impact, particularly in areas such as accounting or statutory reserve requirements. The Company could also be materially adversely affected by any new industry-wide regulations or practices that may result from these proceedings. The Company’s involvement in any investigations and lawsuits would cause the Company to incur additional legal and other costs and, if the Company were found to have violated any laws, it could be required to pay fines, damages and other costs, perhaps in material amounts. Regardless of final costs, these matters could have a material adverse effect on the Company by exposing it to negative publicity, reputational damage, harm to client relationships, or diversion of personnel and management resources. The Company has established reserves against matters which it believes to be adequate in light of current information and legal advice, and such reserves are adjusted from time to time based on current developments. The damages claimed in these matters may be substantial. It is possible that, if the outcomes of these contingencies are not favorable to the Company, there could be a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial results. The Company is subject to risks related to healthcare reform legislation. In March 2010, the federal government enacted the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “PPACA”) and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010 (together with the PPACA, the “Healthcare Reform Laws”). As a result of new requirements related to medical loss ratios created by the Healthcare Reform Laws as well as other factors, certain insurance carriers have either reduced or eliminated compensation paid to intermediaries. These actions may cause a reduction in compensation the Company receives from certain carriers, although the Company does not currently believe that the impact of medical loss ratio requirements has been significant. In response to these changes, the Company may modify some of its compensation arrangements such that it receives fees from clients as opposed to commissions from carriers, but such actions may not be effective. For instance, fees from clients may be lower than commissions previously received from carriers and some clients may not be receptive to paying fees to intermediaries if the carriers’ premiums are not reduced accordingly. The Company cannot predict the effect on its business of the Healthcare Reform Laws, which increases the level of regulatory complexity for companies that offer healthcare benefits to its employees. Many provisions of the Healthcare Reform Laws do not go into effect immediately and may be subject to further adjustments through future legislation. The additional regulatory burden on employers, the increase in premium costs, or the adoption of state-based health insurance exchanges may reduce the number of employers seeking to provide employer-sponsored healthcare coverage for their employees. Such reduction of employer-sponsored healthcare could have a significant impact on the commissions that the CCG earns through the sale of healthcare products and services. Non-compliance with or changes in laws, regulations or licensing requirements applicable to the Company could restrict the Company’s ability to conduct its business. The industries in which the Company operates are subject to extensive regulation. The Company conducts business in the United States, certain United States territories and Canada and is subject to regulation and supervision both federally and in each applicable local jurisdiction. In general, these regulations are designed to protect clients, policyholders and insureds and to protect the integrity of the financial markets, rather than to protect stockholders or creditors. The Company’s ability to conduct business in these jurisdictions depends on the Company’s compliance with the rules and regulations promulgated by federal regulatory bodies and other regulatory authorities. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements, or changes in regulatory requirements or interpretations, could result in actions by regulators, potentially leading to fines and penalties, adverse publicity and damage to the Company’s reputation in the marketplace. There can be no assurance that the Company will be 18 Table of Contents able to adapt effectively to any changes in law. In extreme cases, revocation of a subsidiary’s authority to do business in one or more jurisdictions could result from failure to comply with regulatory requirements. In addition, NFP could face lawsuits by clients, insureds and other parties for alleged violations of certain of these laws and regulations. Below are some examples of laws and regulations that may impact the Company. It is difficult to predict whether changes resulting from new laws and regulations will affect the industry or the Company’s business and, if so, to what degree. The regulation of the financial services industry has recently been a focus of lawmakers. In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) was signed into law. Although few provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act became effective immediately upon enactment, and many of the law’s provisions require the adoption of rules governing implementation of the law, the Dodd-Frank Act is anticipated to have far-reaching implications on the financial services industry generally and may have an impact on the Company’s operations specifically. For instance, the Dodd-Frank Act established a Federal Insurance Office in the U.S. Treasury Department to monitor aspects of the insurance industry, subject to some exceptions. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act may establish a fiduciary standard for broker-dealers. The Company is unable to predict with certainty what impact the Dodd-Frank Act or any other such legislation could have on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Further modification of the federal estate tax could also adversely affect revenue from the Company’s life insurance, wealth transfer and estate planning businesses. Legislation enacted in the spring of 2001 under the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001 (“EGTRRA”), increased the size of estates exempt from the federal estate tax and phased in additional increases between 2002 and 2009. EGTRRA also phased in reductions in the federal estate tax rate between 2002 and 2009 and repealed the federal estate tax entirely in 2010. EGTRRA has had a modest negative impact on the Company’s revenue from the sale of estate planning services and products including certain life insurance products that are often used to fund estate tax obligations and could have a further negative impact in the future. As originally enacted, EGTRRA would have reinstated the federal estate tax in 2011 and thereafter, without an increased exemption or reduced tax rate. However, in December 2010, significant legislation was passed to extend or amend certain provisions of EGTRRA, including the establishment of an estate tax rate of 35% with an exclusion of $5.0 million through 2012. Uncertainty remains regarding long-term wealth management strategies. Any additional increases in the size of estates exempt from the federal estate tax, further reductions in the federal estate tax rate or other legislation to permanently repeal the federal estate tax, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenue. Most of NFP’s businesses are licensed to engage in the insurance agency or brokerage business. Principals and employees who engage in the solicitation, negotiation or sale of insurance, or provide certain other insurance services, are required to be licensed individually. Insurance laws and regulations govern whether licensees may share insurance commissions with unlicensed entities and individuals. NFP believes that any payments made by the Company to third parties, including payment of fees to principals to unaffiliated management companies, are in compliance with applicable insurance laws. However, should any insurance department take a contrary position and prevail, NFP will be required to change the manner in which it pays fees to principals or require entities receiving such payments to become licensed. State insurance laws grant supervisory agencies, including state insurance departments, broad administrative authority. State insurance regulators and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”) continually review existing laws and regulations, some of which affect the Company. These supervisory agencies regulate many aspects of the insurance business, including, among other things, the licensing of insurance brokers and agents and other insurance intermediaries, the handling of third-party funds held in a fiduciary capacity, and trade practices, such as marketing, advertising and compensation arrangements entered into by insurance brokers and agents. Regulatory review or the issuance of interpretations of existing laws and regulations may result in the enactment of new laws and regulations that could adversely affect the Company’s operations or its ability to conduct business profitably. The Company is unable to predict whether any such laws or regulations will be enacted and to what extent such laws and regulations would affect its business. 19 Table of Contents Federal initiatives often and increasingly have an impact on the Company’s business in a variety of ways. From time to time, federal measures are proposed which may significantly affect the insurance business, including proposals for exclusive federal regulation over interstate insurers, limitations on antitrust immunity, tax incentives for lifetime annuity payouts and simplification bills affecting tax-advantaged or tax-exempt savings and retirement vehicles. In addition, various forms of direct federal regulation of insurance have been proposed from time to time. NFP cannot predict whether proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals may have on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operation. A few of NFP’s subsidiaries, including NFPSI, are registered broker-dealers. The regulation of broker-dealers is performed, to a large extent, by the SEC and self-regulatory organizations, principally the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”). Broker-dealers are subject to regulations which cover all aspects of the securities business, including sales practices, trading practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers’ funds and securities, capital structure, recordkeeping and the conduct of directors, officers, employees and representatives. Continued efforts by market regulators to increase transparency and reduce the transaction costs for investors, such as decimalization and FINRA’s Trade Reporting and Compliance Engine, has affected and could continue to affect the Company’s trading revenue. Providing investment advice to clients is also regulated on both the federal and state level. Each firm that is a state-regulated investment adviser is subject to regulation under the laws and regulation of the states in which it provides investment advisory services. NFPSI and certain of NFP’s businesses are investment advisers registered with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Advisers Act”), and certain of NFP’s businesses are regulated by state securities regulators under applicable state securities laws. Each firm that is a federally registered investment adviser is regulated and subject to examination by the SEC. The Investment Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on registered investment advisers, including disclosure obligations, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, marketing restrictions and general anti-fraud prohibitions. Additionally, proposed changes to Rule 12b-1 under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”) governing the payment of mutual fund marketing and distribution fees may adversely affect the Company’s financial performance. The failure to comply with the Investment Advisers Act or the Investment Company Act could cause the SEC to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations, including censure, termination of an investment adviser’s registration or prohibition to serve as adviser to SEC-registered funds, and could lead to litigation by investors in those funds. The influence of model acts may also have an impact on the Company. The NAIC Model Act and the National Conference of Insurance Legislators (NCOIL) Model Act are serving as templates for new state proposed legislation relating to life settlement transactions and may have the effect of reducing the number of life settlement transactions generally, which may lead to a decrease in the Company’s revenue. The Company is unable to predict the effect of this legislation on the life settlement industry, which may have the effect of reducing the number of life settlement transactions, which in turn may lead to a decrease in the Company’s revenue. Violations of applicable laws or regulations can result in the imposition of fines or censures, disciplinary actions, including the revocation of licenses or registrations, and reputational damage. Federal, state and other regulatory authorities have focused on, and continue to devote substantial attention to, the annuity and insurance industries as well as to the sale of products or services to seniors. Conditions impacting insurance carriers or other parties that the Company does business with may impact the Company. The Company has a significant amount of trade accounts receivable from insurance companies with which it places insurance. If those insurance companies were to experience liquidity problems or other financial difficulties, the Company could encounter delays or defaults in payments owed to it, which could have a significant adverse impact on its financial condition and results of operations. Further, questions about an insurance carrier’s perceived stability and financial strength may contribute to such insurers’ strategic decisions to focus on certain lines of insurance to the loss of others. The potential for an insurer to cease writing insurance 20 Table of Contents the Company offers its customers could negatively impact overall capacity in the industry, which in turn could have the effect of reduced placement of certain lines and types of insurance and reduced revenue and profitability for the Company. To the extent that questions about an insurance carrier’s viability contribute to such insurers’ failure in the market, the Company could be exposed to losses resulting from such insurers’ inability to pay commissions or fees owed. Regulations affecting insurance carriers with whom the Company’s brokers place business affect how the Company conducts its operations. Significant reforms to the manner in which health insurance is distributed in the United States could impact competition, reduce the need for health insurance brokerage services or reduce the demand for health insurance administration, any of which could harm the CCG’s business, operating results and financial condition. See also “—The Company is subject to risks related to healthcare reform legislation.” Insurers are also regulated by state insurance departments for solvency issues and are subject to reserve requirements. NFP cannot guarantee that all insurance carriers with which it does business comply with regulations instituted by state insurance departments. The Company may need to expend resources to address questions or concerns regarding its relationships with these insurers, diverting management resources away from operating the Company’s business. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, funding, counterparty or other relationships. The ability of the ICG’s wealth management business line and the ASG to engage in routine trading and funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. A deteriorating financial condition at one institution may materially and adversely impact the performance of other institutions, exposing the Company to risks in the event that a counterparty defaults on its obligations. Principal incentive plans may not have their intended effect. NFP views incentive plans as an essential component in compensating principals and as a way to motivate growth across the Company. As of the year ended December 31, 2011, NFP maintained two incentive plans for principals and certain employees of its businesses, the PIP and the RTIP. For a more detailed discussion of NFP’s incentive plans, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Incentive Plans.” While NFP believes that meaningful incentives are an important part of the Company’s operating structure, the financial impact of the principal incentive plans on the Company could be negative. For instance, NFP’s portion of the earnings generated by a particular firm or firms could be higher without the payouts associated with the principal incentive plans. Additionally, the principal incentive plans may not be accurately calibrated to motivate principals, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Changes in the Company’s accounting or reporting assumptions could negatively affect its financial position and operating results. NFP prepares its financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). GAAP requires NFP to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, and the Company’s financial statements. NFP is also required to make certain judgments that affect the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during each reporting period. NFP periodically evaluates its estimates and assumptions, including those relating to reserves, litigation and contingencies, the valuation of intangible assets, investments, income taxes, stock-based compensation, claims handling obligations and retirement plans. NFP bases its estimates on historical experience and various assumptions that NFP believes to be reasonable based on specific 21 Table of Contents circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from estimated results. Estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to change in the future, and any such changes could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial position and results of operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company’s financial statements. In addition, regulators who interpret accounting standards may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements. If the Company is required to write down goodwill and other intangible assets, the Company’s financial condition and results would be negatively affected. Under GAAP, if NFP determines goodwill and other intangible assets are impaired, NFP will be required to write down these assets. Any write-down would have a negative effect on the Company’s financial statements. The method to compute the amount of impairment incorporates quantitative data and qualitative criteria including new information and judgments that can dramatically change the decision about the valuation of an intangible asset in a very short period of time. The timing and amount of realized losses reported in earnings could vary if management’s conclusions were different. Any resulting impairment loss could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s reported financial position and results of operations for any particular quarterly or annual period. For more detail regarding impairments, see “Note 15—Goodwill and other intangible assets” to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report. Additionally, significant impairment charges may impact compliance with the financial covenants of NFP’s 2010 Credit Facility. Failure to comply with net capital requirements could subject the Company’s wholly-owned broker-dealers to suspension or revocation of their licenses by the SEC or expulsion from FINRA. The SEC, FINRA and various other regulatory agencies have stringent laws, regulations and rules with respect to the maintenance of specific levels of net capital by securities brokerage firms, which limits NFP’s ability to make withdrawals of capital from broker-dealer subsidiaries or could require NFP to provide capital infusions to such broker-dealers. Further, failure to maintain the required net capital may subject a business to suspension or revocation of registration by the SEC or FINRA, which ultimately could prevent NFPSI or the Company’s other broker-dealers from performing as a broker-dealer. Although the Company’s broker-dealers have compliance procedures in place to ensure that the required levels of net capital are maintained, there can be no assurance that the Company’s broker-dealers will remain in compliance with the net capital requirements. In addition, a change in the net capital rules, the imposition of new rules or any unusually large charge against net capital could limit the operations of NFPSI or the Company’s other broker-dealers, which could harm the Company’s business. The loss of key personnel could negatively affect the Company’s financial results and impair the Company’s ability to implement its business strategy. The Company’s success substantially depends on its ability to attract and retain key members of NFP’s senior management team. If the Company were to lose one or more of these key employees, its ability to successfully implement its business plan and the value of NFP’s common stock could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the Company could be adversely affected if NFP fails to adequately plan for the succession 22 Table of Contents of members of NFP’s senior management team. Jessica M. Bibliowicz, the chairman of NFP’s Board, president and chief executive officer, is particularly important to the Company. Although she has an employment agreement, there can be no assurance that she will serve the term of her employment agreement or renew her employment agreement upon expiration. Other than with respect to Ms. Bibliowicz and certain of the Company’s principals, the Company does not maintain key person life insurance policies. The resolution of tax disputes could create volatility in the Company’s effective tax rate, could expose the Company to greater than anticipated tax liabilities and could cause an adjustment to previously recognized tax assets and liabilities. The Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions. As a result, the effective tax rate from period to period can be affected by many factors, including changes in tax legislation at the federal, state or local level and in the foreign jurisdictions that the Company operates in, the Company’s mix of earnings, the tax characteristics of the Company’s income, the transfer pricing of revenues and costs, acquisitions and dispositions, and the portion of the income of foreign subsidiaries that the Company expects to remit to the U.S. Significant judgment is required in determining the Company’s provision for income taxes and the determination of the Company’s tax liability is always subject to review by applicable tax authorities. Favorable resolution of such matters would typically be recognized as a reduction in the Company’s effective tax rate in the year of resolution. Conversely, unfavorable resolution of any particular issue could increase the effective tax rate and may require the use of cash in the year of resolution. Such an adverse outcome could have a negative effect on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. Although the Company believes its estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in the Company’s financial statements and may materially affect the Company’s financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. While historically the Company has not experienced significant adjustments to previously recognized tax assets and liabilities as a result of finalizing tax returns, there can be no assurance that significant adjustments will not arise. Competition in the Company’s industry is intense and, if the Company is unable to compete effectively, the Company may lose clients and its financial results may be negatively affected. The business of providing benefits, insurance and wealth management services is highly competitive and the Company expects competition to intensify. The Company’s businesses compete for clients on the basis of reputation, client service, program and product offerings and their ability to tailor products and services to meet the specific needs of a client. The Company actively competes with numerous integrated financial services organizations as well as insurance companies and brokers, producer groups, individual insurance agents, investment management firms, independent financial planners and broker-dealers. Competition may reduce the fees that the Company’s businesses can obtain for services provided, which would have an adverse effect on revenue and margins. Many of the Company’s competitors have greater financial and marketing resources than the Company does and may be able to offer products and services that the Company’s businesses do not currently offer and may not offer in the future. NFP believes, in light of increasing industry consolidation and the regulatory overhaul of the financial services industry, that competition will continue to increase from manufacturers and other marketers of financial services products. A number of insurance carriers are engaged in the direct sale of insurance, primarily to individuals, and do not pay commissions to brokers. Further, rather than purchase additional insurance through brokers, some insureds have been retaining a greater proportion of their risk portfolios than previously. For instance, some companies have been increasingly relying upon their own subsidiary insurance companies, known as captive insurance companies, self-insurance pools, risk retention groups, mutual insurance companies and other mechanisms for funding their risks, rather than buying insurance. 23 Table of Contents A change in the tax treatment of life insurance products the Company sells or a determination that these products are not life insurance contracts for federal tax purposes could reduce the demand for these products, which may reduce the Company’s revenue. The market for many life insurance products the Company sells currently have a favorable tax treatment, such as the tax-free build up of cash values and the tax-free nature of death benefits, relative to other investment alternatives. A change in the tax treatment associated with plans and strategies utilizing life insurance, or an adverse determination by the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) relative to such plans and strategies, could remove many of the tax advantages policyholders seek in purchasing or maintaining these policies. In addition, the IRS from time to time releases guidance on the tax treatment of products the Company sells. If the provisions of the tax code were changed or new federal tax regulations, rulings or guidance were issued in a manner that would make it more difficult for holders of these insurance contracts to qualify for favorable tax treatment or subject holders to special tax reporting requirements, the demand for the life insurance contracts the Company sells could decrease, which may reduce the Company’s revenue and negatively affect its business. Under current law, both death benefits and accrual of cash value under a life insurance contract are treated favorably for federal income tax purposes. From time to time, legislation that would affect such favorable tax treatment has been proposed, and sometimes it is enacted. For example, federal legislation that eliminated the tax-free nature of corporate-owned and bank-owned life insurance in certain narrow circumstances was introduced in 2004 and enacted in 2006. Although the effect of the legislation was mitigated as many of the Company’s businesses, in line with the life insurance industry generally, modified their business practices in advance of this legislation in order to remain eligible for the tax benefits on such insurance, there can be no assurance that the Company’s businesses will be able to anticipate and prepare for future legislative changes in a timely manner. In addition, a proposal that would have imposed an excise tax on the acquisition costs of certain life insurance contracts in which a charity and a person other than the charity held an interest was included in the administration’s Fiscal Year 2006 Budget, but the provision was not ultimately enacted. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 requires the U.S. Treasury Department to conduct a study on these contracts, and it is possible that an excise tax or similarly focused provision could be imposed in the future. Such a provision could adversely affect, among other things, the utility of and the appetite of clients to employ insurance strategies involving charitable giving of life insurance policy benefits when the policy is or has been owned by someone other than the charity, and the Company’s revenue from the sale of policies pursuant to such strategies could materially decline. If the tax treatment associated with the sale of life insurance products is determined to be different than originally anticipated, the Company could be subject to litigation or IRS scrutiny. The Company cannot predict whether changes in the tax treatment, or anticipated tax treatment, of life insurance, or plans or strategies utilizing life insurance, are likely or what the consequences of such changes would ultimately be to the Company. Changes in the pricing, design or underwriting of products and services the Company sells could adversely affect the Company’s revenue. Insurance premiums may vary widely based on market conditions, which the Company does not control. Market cycles for insurance product pricing can lead to the Company’s brokerage revenues and profitability to be volatile or lowered for extended periods of time. Additionally, the Company believes that changes in the reinsurance market have made it more difficult for insurance carriers to obtain reinsurance coverage for life insurance, including certain types of financed life insurance transactions. This has caused some insurance carriers to become more conservative in their underwriting and to change the design and pricing of universal life insurance policies, which may reduce their attractiveness to customers. Revisions in mortality tables by life expectancy underwriters could also have an additional negative impact on the Company. The Company’s ability to generate premium-based commission revenue may be challenged by the growing availability of alternative methods for clients to meet their risk-protection needs. This trend includes a greater willingness on the part of corporations to “self-insure,” including the use of so-called “captive” insurers; and the advent of capital markets-based solutions to traditional insurance and reinsurance needs. 24 Table of Contents Interest rates can have a significant effect on both the sale of employee benefit programs, whether they are financed by life insurance or other financial instruments, and the sale of financed life insurance products. If interest rates increase, competing products offering higher returns could become more attractive to potential purchasers than the programs and policies the Company distributes. Additionally, if interest rates increase, the availability or attractiveness of financed life insurance products may decrease, which may reduce the Company’s new sales of life insurance products. A decrease in stock prices can have a significant effect on the sale of financial services products that are linked to the stock market, such as variable life insurance, variable annuities, mutual funds and managed accounts. Additionally, a portion of the Company’s earnings is derived from businesses offering financial advisory services, which are typically based on a percentage of assets under management. A decrease in the value of assets under management could lead to a corresponding decrease in the Company’s earnings derived from these businesses. Even in the absence of a market downturn, below market investment performance could reduce revenue derived from assets under management. Further, regulatory developments also could affect product design and the attractiveness of certain products. For example, in December 2005, the Office of the General Counsel of the New York Insurance Department issued an opinion on certain financed life insurance transactions that led to changes in the design and demand for financed life insurance products generally. Any developments that reduce the attractiveness of products and services could result in fewer sales of those products and services and adversely affect the Company’s revenue. The securities brokerage business has inherent risks. The securities brokerage and advisory business is subject to numerous and substantial risks, particularly in volatile or illiquid markets, or in markets influenced by sustained periods of low or negative economic growth. Risks associated with the operation of a broker-dealer include counterparty failure to meet commitments, fraudulent behavior, including unauthorized transactions by registered representatives or fraud perpetrated by clients, failures in connection with the processing of securities transactions and litigation. The Company cannot be certain that its risk management procedures and internal controls will prevent losses from occurring. A significant portion of the Company’s revenue is generated by the ASG, and any losses at the ASG could have a significant effect on the Company’s revenue and earnings. The geographic concentration of the Company’s businesses could leave the Company vulnerable to economic downturns, regulatory changes, or severe climate conditions in those areas, resulting in a decrease in the Company’s revenue. The Company’s businesses located in New York produced approximately 10.3%, 10.6%, 12.1%, 10.8% and 9.8% of the Company’s revenue for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The Company’s businesses located in Florida produced approximately 3.5%, 4.6%, 4.4%, 7.8% and 10.8% of the Company’s revenue for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The Company’s businesses located in California produced approximately 6.3%, 6.2%, 6.6%, 8.2% and 9.7% of the Company’s revenue for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Because the Company’s business is concentrated in these three states, the occurrence of adverse economic conditions or an adverse regulatory climate in any of these states could negatively affect the Company’s financial results more than would be the case if the Company’s business were more geographically diversified. A weakening economic environment in any state or region could result in a decrease in employment or wages that may reduce the demand for employee benefit products in that state or region. Reductions in personal income could reduce individuals’ demand for various financial products in that state or region. Businesses in California and Florida may be particularly susceptible to natural disasters, such as earthquakes or hurricanes. To the extent broad environmental factors, triggered by climate change or otherwise, lead to disruptions in business or unexpected relocation costs, the performance of businesses in these regions could be adversely impacted. 25 Table of Contents The Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively affected by errors and omissions claims. The Company has significant insurance agency, brokerage, intermediary and life settlement operations as well as securities brokerage and investment advisory operations and activities, and is subject to claims and litigation in the ordinary course of business resulting from alleged and actual errors and omissions in placing insurance, effecting life settlement and securities transactions and rendering investment advice. These activities involve substantial amounts of money. Since errors and omissions claims against NFP’s businesses may allege the Company’s liability for all or part of the amounts in question, claimants may seek large damage awards. These claims can involve significant defense costs. Errors and omissions could include failure, whether negligently or intentionally, to place coverage or effect securities transactions on behalf of clients, to provide insurance carriers with complete and accurate information relating to the risks being insured or to appropriately apply funds that the Company holds on a fiduciary basis. It is not always possible to prevent or detect errors and omissions, and the precautions the Company takes may not be effective in all cases. The Company has errors and omissions insurance coverage to protect against the risk of liability resulting from alleged and actual errors and omissions by the Company. Prices for this insurance and the scope and limits of the coverage terms available are dependent on the Company’s claims history as well as market conditions that are outside of the control of the Company. While the Company endeavors to purchase coverage that is appropriate to its assessment of the Company’s risk, NFP is unable to predict with certainty the frequency, nature or magnitude of claims for direct or consequential damages or whether its errors and omissions insurance will cover such claims. In establishing liabilities for errors and omissions claims in accordance with FASB ASC Subtopic No. 450-20, NFP utilizes case level reviews by inside and outside counsel and an internal analysis to estimate potential losses. The liability is reviewed quarterly and adjusted as developments warrant. Given the unpredictability of errors and omissions claims and of litigation that could flow from them, it is possible that an adverse outcome in a particular matter could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s businesses, results of operations, financial condition or cash flow in a given quarterly or annual period. Because clients can withdraw the assets the Company manages on short notice, poor performance of the investment products and services the Company’s businesses recommend or sell may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company’s investment advisory and administrative contracts with their clients are generally terminable upon 30 days’ notice. These clients can terminate their relationship with the Company’s businesses, reduce the aggregate amount of assets under management or shift their funds to other types of accounts with different rate structures for any of a number of reasons, including investment performance, changes in prevailing interest rates, financial market performance and personal client liquidity needs. Poor performance of the investment products and services that the Company’s businesses recommend or sell relative to the performance of other products available in the market or the performance of other investment management firms tends to result in the loss of accounts. The decrease in revenue that could result from such an event could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected if the Company is unable to facilitate smooth succession planning at its businesses. NFP seeks to acquire businesses in which the principals or employees are not ready to retire, are motivated to grow earnings and participate in the growth incentives that the Company offers. However, NFP cannot predict with certainty how long the principals or employees of its businesses will continue working. The personal reputation of the principals of the Company’s businesses and the relationships they have are crucial to success in the independent distribution channel. Upon retirement of a principal or employee, a business may be adversely affected if that manager’s successor is not as successful as the original manager. As a result of NFP’s relatively 26 Table of Contents short operating history, succession will be a larger issue for the Company in the future. The Company will attempt to facilitate smooth transitions and views the transactions in which NFP utilizes an employment contract acquisition model or management contract buyout as tools to facilitate succession planning in a more integrated business model. However, if the Company is not successful in facilitating succession planning, the Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected. Because the revenue and earnings of many of the Company’s businesses are largely dependent on the individual production of their respective principals or employees for whom designated successors may not be in place, the Company may be more exposed than its competitors to the revocation or suspension of the licenses or registrations of the Company’s principals or employees. The Company’s business is dependent upon information processing systems. Security or data breaches may hurt the Company’s business. The Company’s ability to provide benefits, insurance and wealth management services to clients and to create and maintain comprehensive tracking and reporting of client accounts depends on the Company’s capacity to store, retrieve and process data, manage significant databases and expand and periodically upgrade the Company’s information processing capabilities. As the Company’s operations evolve, the Company will need to continue to make investments in new and enhanced information systems. Interruption or loss of the Company’s information processing capabilities or adverse consequences from implementing new or enhanced systems could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. As the Company’s information system providers revise and upgrade their hardware, software and equipment technology, the Company may encounter difficulties in integrating these new technologies into its business. In the course of providing financial services, certain of the Company’s businesses electronically store personally identifiable information, such as social security numbers, of clients or employees of clients. Breaches in data security or infiltration by unauthorized persons of the Company’s network security could cause interruptions in operations and damage to the Company’s reputation. While the Company maintains policies, procedures and technological safeguards designed to protect the security and privacy of this information, the Company cannot entirely eliminate the risk of improper access to or disclosure of personally identifiable information nor the related costs incurred by the Company to mitigate the consequences from such events. Privacy laws and regulations are matters of growing public concern and are continuously changing in the states in which the Company operates. The failure to adhere to or successfully implement procedures to respond to these regulations could result in legal liability or impairment to the Company’s reputation. Further, despite security measures taken, the Company’s systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, unauthorized access, viruses or other disruptive problems. If the Company’s systems or facilities were infiltrated or damaged, the Company’s clients could experience data loss, financial loss and significant business interruption leading to a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify protective measures, to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures or to make required notifications. The Company’s inability to successfully recover should it experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. Should NFP experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as an earthquake, hurricane, terrorist attack, pandemic, security breach, power loss, telecommunications failure or other natural or man-made disaster, the Company’s continued success will depend, in part, on the availability of personnel, office facilities, and the proper functioning of computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. The Company could potentially lose client data or experience material adverse interruptions to its operations or delivery of services to clients in a disaster recovery scenario. 27 Table of Contents NFP may overestimate fees to principals advanced to principals and/or certain entities they own, which may negatively affect its financial condition and results. NFP typically advances fees to principals monthly to principals and/or certain entities they own. NFP sets each principal’s and/or such entity’s fees to principals amount after estimating how much operating cash flow the business that the principal and/or such entity manages will produce. If the business produces less operating cash flow than what NFP estimated, an overadvance may occur, which may negatively affect the Company’s financial condition and results. Further, since in most instances NFP is contractually unable to unilaterally adjust payments to the principals and/or certain entities they own until after a three, six or nine-month calculation period depending on the businesses, NFP may not be able to promptly take corrective measures, such as adjusting the monthly fees to principals lower or requiring the principal and/or such entity to repay the overadvance within a limited time period. Additionally, a restrictive covenant under NFP’s 2010 Credit Facility limits the total balance of notes outstanding to principals that are entered into in connection with the over-advancement of fees to principals. To the extent NFP exceeds its covenant limit on the total balance of such notes outstanding, such advances in excess of the limit could, like any other violation of a restrictive covenant, lead to an event of default as defined under the 2010 Credit Facility. In addition, if a principal and/or certain entities they own fail to repay an overadvance in a timely manner and any security NFP receives from the principal and/or such entities for the overadvance is insufficient, the Company’s financial condition and results may be negatively affected, which could negatively affect the Company’s results of operations. NFPSI relies heavily on Fidelity, its clearing firm, and termination of its agreement with Fidelity could harm its business. Pursuant to NFPSI’s clearing agreement with Fidelity, the clearing firm processes all securities brokerage transactions for NFPSI’s account and the accounts of its clients. Services of Fidelity include billing and credit extension and control, receipt, custody and delivery of securities. NFPSI is dependent on the ability of its clearing firm to process securities transactions in an orderly fashion. Clearing agreements with Fidelity may be terminated by either party upon 90 days’ prior written notice. If this agreement was terminated, NFPSI’s ability to process securities transactions on behalf of its clients could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 