ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors That May Affect Results of Operations and Financial Condition Set forth below are certain risks and uncertainties that could affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and/or stock price. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem less significant also may impair our business operations. We have a history of losses and we may experience losses in the foreseeable future. We have not achieved profitability and we may incur losses for the foreseeable future. In fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, we incurred losses of approximately $9.3 million, $22.5 million and $47.9 million, respectively. As of September 30, 2007, our accumulated deficit was $246.5 million, which represents our net losses since inception. Although our cash balance is sizable, it may not last long enough for our operations to become profitable. We will need to achieve incremental revenue growth and manage our costs to achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may be unable to sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. It is possible that our revenue will grow at a slower rate than we anticipate or that operating expenses will increase beyond our current run rate. Our cost-reduction initiatives may not result in the anticipated savings or more efficient operations and may harm our long-term viability. Over the past several years, we have implemented extensive cost cutting measures and have incurred significant restructuring charges as we have attempted to streamline operations, improve 12 efficiency, and reduce costs. Although we believe that it has been necessary to reduce the size and cost of our operations to improve our performance, the reduction in our operations may make it more difficult to develop and market new products and to compete successfully with other companies in our industry. In addition, many of the employees who have been terminated as part of our restructuring activities possessed specific knowledge or expertise that may prove to have been important to our operations and their absence may create significant difficulties. These efforts may not result in anticipated cost savings, making it difficult for us to achieve profitability. These cost reduction initiatives may also preclude us from making complementary acquisitions and/or other potentially significant expenditures that could improve our product offerings, competitiveness or long-term prospects. We derive revenue from only a limited number of products and we do not have a diversified product base. Substantially all of our revenue is derived from the sale of our digital identity systems and products. We anticipate that substantially all of our future revenue, if any, will also be derived from these products. If for any reason our sale of these products is impeded, and we have not diversified our product offerings, our business and results of operations could be harmed. We have reduced our product offerings as part of our prior restructuring initiatives to focus on just our core products and we do not expect to diversify our product offerings in the foreseeable future. By limiting our product offerings in the future, we will likely increase the risks associated with not having a more diversified product base. Our customer base is highly concentrated and the loss of any one of these customers or delay in anticipated orders could adversely affect our business. Our customers consist primarily of medium to large enterprises, system integrators, resellers, distributors, and original equipment manufacturers. Historically, we have experienced a concentration of revenue through certain of our channel partners to customers. In 2007 and 2006, two customers (EDS and Novell) each accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue. In 2005, only Peta Holdings LLC accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue. Additionally, a substantial portion of our total revenue is generated from the governmental sector. In fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, government business accounted for approximately 29%, 29% and 26% respectively of total product revenue. We expect future potential revenue variability in this sector for the aforementioned reasons. If we lose any of the above or other significant customers or if any of our significant channel partners do not renew their contracts upon expiration, or if there are further delays in orders from governmental agencies, it could adversely affect our business and operating results. We expect to continue to depend upon a small number of large customers for a substantial portion of our revenue. Our quarterly gross and net margins are difficult to predict, and if we miss quarterly financial expectations, our stock price could decline. Our quarterly revenue, expense levels and operating results are difficult to predict and fluctuate from quarter to quarter. It is likely that our operating results in some periods will be below the guidance we have provided and not meet investor expectations. If this happens, the market price of our common stock is likely to decline. Fluctuations in our future quarterly operating results may be caused by many factors, including: •The size and timing of customer orders, which are received unevenly and unpredictably throughout a fiscal year and may be subject to seasonality relating to the U.S. government's fiscal year and related spending patterns; •The mix of products licensed and types of license agreements; •The effect of generally accepted accounting principles on the timing of revenue recognition; 13 •The timing of customer payments; •The size and timing of revenue recognized in advance of actual customer billings and customers with installment payment schedules that may result in higher accounts receivable balances; •The relative mix of our license and services revenue; and •The application of new accounting regulations could negatively impact results. We have a long and often complicated sales cycle, which can result in significant revenue fluctuations between periods. The sales cycle for our products is typically long and subject to a number of significant risks over which we have little control. The typical sales cycle is six to nine months for an enterprise customer and over twelve months for a network service provider or government. As our operating expenses are based on anticipated revenue levels, a small fluctuation in the timing of sales can cause our operating results to vary significantly between periods. If revenue falls significantly below anticipated levels, our business would be negatively impacted. Purchasing decisions for our products and systems may be subject to delay due to many factors that are outside of our control, such as: •Political and economic uncertainties; •Time required for a prospective customer to recognize the need for our products; •Time and complexity for us to assess and determine a prospective customer's IT environment; •Customer's requirements for customized features and functionalities; •Turnover of key personnel at existing and prospective customers; •Customer's internal budgeting process; and •Customer's internal procedures for the approval of large purchases. Furthermore, the implementation process is subject to delays resulting from concerns associated with incorporating new technologies into existing networks, deployment of a new network system or preservation of existing network infrastructure and data migration to the new system. Full deployment of our technology and products for such networks, servers, or other host systems can be scheduled to occur over an extended period and the licensing of systems and products, including client and server software, smart cards, readers, and tokens, and the recognition of maintenance revenues would also occur over this period, thereby negatively impacting the results of our operations in the near term, resulting in unanticipated fluctuations between periods. We rely on certain key employees and have faced challenges in the past with employee turnover in senior management. If we are not able to build and maintain a strong management team, our ability to manage and expand our business will be impacted. We rely on certain key employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, President and Chief Financial Officer. In recent years, there have been several turnovers in these positions and most recently, Thomas Jahn became our Chief Executive Officer on November 1, 2007, following the resignation of Jason Hart. As a result, we face challenges in effectively managing our operations during these transitions. If new key employees and other members of our senior management team cannot work together effectively, or if other members of our senior management team resign, our ability to manage our business effectively may be impacted. 14 The market for some of our products is still developing and if the industry adopts standards or a platform different from our platform, then our competitive position would be negatively affected. The market for digital identity products is still emerging and is also experiencing consolidation. The evolution of the market is in a constant state of flux that may result in the development of different network computing platforms and industry standards that are not compatible with our current products or technologies. We believe that smart cards are an emerging platform for providing digital identity for network applications and services. Our business model is premised on the smart card becoming a common access platform for network computing in the future. Further, we have focused on developing our products for certain operating systems related to smart card deployment and use. Should platforms or form factors other than the smart card emerge as a preferred platform or should operating systems other than the specific systems we have focused on emerge as preferred operating systems such as the Microsoft's recent introduction of Windows Vista, our current product offerings could be at a disadvantage. If this were to occur, our future growth and operating results could be negatively affected. Additionally, consolidation within this industry has created a more difficult competitive environment for us and may result in the broader adoption of competing platforms and systems. In addition, the digital identity market has evolving industry-wide standards. While we are actively engaged in discussions with industry peers to define what these standards should be, it is possible that any standards eventually adopted could prove disadvantageous to or incompatible with our business model and product lines. Uncertainty surrounding the Homeland Security Presidential Directive #12 may affect sales of our products to government agencies. If our products do not comply with the requirements of Homeland Security Presidential Directive #12, we may not be able to sell to agencies that must comply with this Directive. We rely on strategic relationships with other companies to develop and market our products. If we are unable to enter into additional relationships, or if we lose an existing relationship, our business could be harmed. Our success depends on establishing and maintaining strategic relationships with other companies to develop, market, and distribute our technology and products and, in some cases, to incorporate our technology into their products. Part of our business strategy has been to enter into strategic alliances and other cooperative arrangements with other companies in the industry. We are currently involved in cooperative efforts to incorporate our products into the products of others, to jointly engage in research and development efforts, and to jointly engage in marketing efforts and reseller arrangements. To date, none of these relationships is exclusive, and some of our strategic partners have cooperative relationships with certain of our competitors. If we are unable to enter into cooperative arrangements in the future or if we lose any of our current strategic or cooperative relationships, our business could be adversely affected. We do not control the time and resources devoted to such activities by parties with whom we have relationships. In addition, we may not have the resources available to satisfy our commitments, which may adversely affect these relationships. These relationships may not continue, may not be commercially successful, or may require the expenditure of significant financial, personnel, and administrative resources from time to time. Further, certain of our products and services compete with the products and services of our strategic partners, which may adversely affect our relationships with these partners, which could adversely affect our business. Employee turnover could adversely impact our revenues, costs and productivity. As employees leave ActivIdentity, we suffer loss of productivity while new employees are hired or promoted into vacant positions. The departure of highly skilled employees sometimes results in a loss of talent or knowledge that is difficult to replace. There are also costs of recruiting and relocating new 15 employees. For example, the recruiting market for experienced operations personnel is very competitive and we may be limited in our ability to attract and retain key operations talent. New employees must learn the ActivIdentity organization, products and procedures. All of this takes time, reduces productivity and increases cost. The potential adverse impact of employee turnover is greater for situations involving senior positions in the company. Turnover rates tend to increase as economic conditions improve. If turnover increases, the adverse impact of turnover could materially affect our costs, productivity or ability to respond quickly to the competitive environment. We may be adversely affected by operating in international markets. Our international operations subject us to risks associated with operating in foreign markets, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. International sales and expenses make up a substantial portion of our business. A severe economic decline in any of our major foreign markets could make it difficult for our customers to pay us on a timely basis. Any such failure to pay, or deferral of payment, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. During the fiscal years ended September 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, markets outside of North America accounted for 59%, 57% and 47% respectively, of total revenue. We face a number of additional risks inherent in doing business in international markets, including among others: •Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; •Potentially adverse tax consequences; •Export controls relating to encryption technology; •Tariffs and other trade barriers; •Difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; •Laws that restrict our ability, and make it costly, to reduce our workforce; •Changing economic or political conditions; •Exposures to different legal standards; •Burden of complying with a variety of laws and legal systems; •Fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and •Fluctuations in business activity. While we present our financial statements in U.S. Dollars, a significant portion of our business is conducted outside of the United States and we incur a significant portion of our expenses in Euros, Australian dollars and British Pounds. Some revenue transactions are denominated in foreign currencies as well. Significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our future operating results. The fluctuation of foreign currencies amounted to a gain of $3.4 million in fiscal 2007, a gain of $151,000 in fiscal 2006 and a loss of $400,000 in fiscal 2005. 16 It is difficult to integrate acquired companies, products and technologies into our operations and our inability to do so could greatly lessen the value of any such acquisitions. We have made various strategic acquisitions of companies, products or technologies, including our acquisition of Protocom in August 2005 and the remaining equity interest in Aspace in December 2004, and we may make additional acquisitions in the future as a component of our business strategy. These acquisitions may involve numerous risks, including: •Difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products, and personnel of the acquired companies; •Diversion of management's attention from normal daily operations of the business; •Disputes over earn-outs or contingent payment obligations; •Insufficient revenue to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; and •The potential loss of key employees of the acquired entities. Acquisitions may also result in: •Recording goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and can result in potential periodic impairment charges which could be substantial; •Increases in our amortization expense; •Incurring large and immediate write-off, and restructurings; and •Disputes regarding representations and warranties, indemnities and other provisions in acquisition agreements. In the past, we recorded charges to earnings associated with the impairment of other intangible assets, write-downs of goodwill and property and equipment, and losses from discontinued operations from our previous acquisitions. In fiscal year 2005, due to a change in our revenue forecast related to our acquisition of Aspace, we recorded a charge of $9.4 million related to the impairment of goodwill and a charge of $6.1 million related to the impairment of intangible assets. Additionally, acquisitions can also lead to expensive and time-consuming litigation, including disputes relating to the achievement of earn-out targets, and may subject us to unanticipated liabilities or risks, disrupt our operations, divert management's attention from day-to-day operations, and increase our operating expenses. To date, we have primarily used cash and stock to finance our business acquisitions. We may incur debt to finance future acquisitions. The issuance of equity securities for any future acquisitions could be substantially dilutive to our stockholders. If we are unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses, products or technologies with our existing operations, we may not receive the intended benefits of such acquisitions and we may be required to take future charges to earnings. We have recorded significant write-downs in recent periods for impairment of acquired intangible assets and may have similar write-downs in future periods. We recorded an impairment charge of $9.4 million related to goodwill in fiscal 2005. Additionally, we recorded impairment of acquired developed technology of $3.7 million in fiscal 2005, and impairment of acquired intangible assets of $2.4 million in fiscal 2005 and $45,000 in the nine months ended September 30, 2004. The impaired assets consisted of developed and core technology, customer relationships, agreements, contracts, and trade names and trademarks capitalized in our acquisitions. We may terminate additional non-core activities in the future or determine that our long-lived assets, acquired intangible assets, or goodwill have been impaired. Any future termination or 17 impairment related charges could be significant and would have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. As of September 30, 2007, we had $6.7 million of other intangible assets and $35.9 million of goodwill, accounting for approximately 23% of our total assets. We performed the annual impairment evaluation of goodwill as of December 1, 2006 and determined that no goodwill impairment existed as of that date. If the enterprise value at a future date is lower than the enterprise value as of our last impairment evaluation, the evaluation could result in an impairment of goodwill and/or other intangible assets charge if the circumstances indicate that impairment may exist. Our operating results could suffer if we are subject to intellectual property infringement claims. We may face claims of infringement on proprietary rights of others that could subject us to costly litigation and possible restriction on the use of such proprietary rights. There is a risk that our products infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties. While we currently do not believe that our products infringe on proprietary rights of third parties, infringement or invalidity claims may nevertheless be asserted or prosecuted against us and our products may be found to have infringed the rights of third parties. Such claims are costly to defend and could subject us to substantial litigation costs. If any claims or actions are asserted against us, we may be required to modify our products or may be forced to obtain a license for such intellectual property rights. However, we may not be able to modify our products or obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, despite precautions that we take, it may be possible for competitors to copy or reverse-engineer aspects of our current or future products, to independently develop similar or superior technology, or to design around the patents we own. Monitoring unauthorized use and transfer of our technology is difficult and technology piracy currently is and can be expected to continue to be a persistent problem. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the United States. It may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights through litigation, arbitration or other adversarial proceedings, which could be costly and distracting to management, and there is no assurance that we would prevail in any such proceedings. We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities as a result of inter-company transfer pricing policies As a multinational organization, we conduct business and are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision and related tax liabilities. In the ordinary course of a global business, inter-company transactions and calculations result in a variety of uncertain tax positions. We are in the process of undertaking a worldwide transfer pricing study to validate our inter-company pricing policies and evaluate our tax positions in anticipation of adopting Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. (FIN) 48, Accounting for Income Tax Uncertainties. Our inter-company pricing policies are subject to audits in the various foreign tax jurisdictions. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, there is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or potential tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, we recorded an additional $384,000 of tax liabilities with respect to our inter-company transfer pricing study. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 18 