ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Drug Discovery, Development and Commercialization We are substantially dependent upon the success of TH-302. We have focused our development activities on TH-302, and we do not presently have other compounds in clinical development. The failure of TH-302 to achieve successful clinical trial endpoints, delays in clinical or development of TH-302, unanticipated adverse side effects related to TH-302 or any other adverse developments or information related to TH-302 would significantly harm our business and the value of our common stock. We are dependent upon our collaborative relationship with Merck KGaA to further develop, manufacture and commercializeTH-302. Our success in developing, manufacturing and commercializing TH-302 will depend on our relationship with Merck KGaA. On February 2, 2012, we entered into entered into a global license and co-development agreement with Merck KGaA to co-develop and commercialize TH-302. In the United States, Threshold will have primary responsibility for development of TH-302 in the soft tissue sarcoma indication. Threshold and Merck KGaA will jointly develop TH-302 in all other cancer indications being pursued. Threshold has rights to co-promote TH-302 in the United States, which it can exercise by giving notice during specified periods, and has the right to co-commercialize TH-302 if certain development or sales milestones are achieved. We are subject to a number of risks associated with our dependence on our collaborative relationship with Merck, including: • our ability, together with Merck, to achieve developmental and commercial milestones that will trigger payments to Threshold under the agreement; • our ability to fund thirty percent (30%) of the global development costs of TH-302; • • decisions by Merck regarding the amount and timing of resource expenditures for the development and commercialization of TH-302; • possible disagreements as to development plans, clinical trials, regulatory marketing or sales; • our need to develop a sales force to co-promote or co-commercialize TH-302 in the United States if we chose to do so, or our reliance on Merck to promote TH-302 in the United States; • our inability to co-promote or co-commercialize TH-302 in any country outside the United States, which makes us solely dependent on Merck to promote and commercialize TH-302 in foreign countries; • Merck’s right to terminate the collaboration agreement on limited notice after the attainment of certain milestones or in certain circumstances involving our insolvency or material breach of the agreement; • loss of significant rights if we fail to meet our obligations under the collaboration agreement; • adverse regulatory or legal action against Merck resulting from failure to meet healthcare industry compliance requirements in the promotion and sale of TH-302, including federal and state reporting requirements; • changes in key management personnel at Merck, including Merck’s representatives on the joint steering committee or other committees that are administering the agreement; and • disagreements with Merck regarding interpretation or enforcement of the agreement. We have limited ability to direct Merck in its development of TH-302 and we may be unable to obtain any remedy against Merck if they fail to do so, or do so in a manner that we think is inadequate. Merck may not have sufficient expertise to promote or obtain reimbursement for oncology products in the United States and may fail to devote appropriate resources to this task. In addition, Merck may establish a sales and marketing infrastructure 23 Table of Contents for TH-302 that is too large and expensive in view of the magnitude of the sales opportunity or establish this infrastructure too early in view of the ultimate timing of potential regulatory approvals. We are at risk with respect to the success or failure of Merck’s development and commercial decisions related to TH-302 as well as the extent to which Merck succeeds in the execution of its strategy. Merck’s development of other products may affect its incentives to develop and commercialize TH-302 and cause it to take actions that may be different from those we would take. Under the terms of the agreement, we and Merck must agree on the development plan for TH-302. If we and Merck cannot agree, clinical trial progress could be significantly delayed. Further, if we cease funding development of TH-302 under the collaboration agreement, then we will be entitled to receive a royalty, but will lose our right to co-commercialize TH-302 and share in profits. Merck has the right to terminate the agreement after certain milestones have been met on ninety (90) days prior written notice, or following our uncured material breach. If Merck terminates the agreement, then we shall become responsible for the costs of development and commercialization of TH-302, and there can be no assurance we would be able to do so, or to find another collaborator for the continued development and commercialization of TH-302. If we are unable to maintain our collaborative relationship with Merck, we may be unable to continue development, manufacturing and marketing activities at our own expense. If we were able to do so on our own, this would significantly increase our capital and infrastructure requirements, would necessarily impose delays on development programs, may limit the indications we are able to pursue and could prevent us from effectively developing and commercializing TH-302. Disputes with Merck may delay or prevent us from further developing, manufacturing or commercializingTH-302, and could lead to litigation against Merck, which could be time consuming and expensive. Delays in our clinical trials could result in us not achieving anticipated developmental milestones when expected, increased costs and delay our ability to obtain regulatory approval and commercialize our product candidates. Delays in our clinical trial enrollment or in the progression of our clinical trials could result in us not meeting previously announced clinical milestones and could materially impact our product development costs and milestone revenue and delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. We do not know whether planned clinical trials will be completed on schedule, if at all. Clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including: • adverse safety events experienced during our clinical trials; • a lower than expected frequency of clinical trial events; • delays in obtaining clinical materials; • slower than expected patient recruitment to participate in clinical trials; • delays in reaching agreement on acceptable clinical trial agreement terms with prospective sites or obtaining institutional review board approval, • delays in obtaining regulatory approval to commence new trials; and • disagreements with Merck KGaA on development plans. If we do not successfully complete our clinical trials on schedule, the price of our common stock may decline. Although we obtained a special protocol assessment for TH-302 for soft tissue sarcoma, a special protocol assessment does not guarantee any particular outcome from regulatory review, including any regulatory approval. We have obtained an agreement with the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, following a special protocol assessment, or SPA, for the registration trial for TH-302 for the treatment of soft tissue sarcoma in the 24 Table of Contents United States. The SPA process allows for FDA evaluation of a clinical trial protocol intended to form the primary basis of an efficacy claim in support of a new drug application, or NDA, and provides a product sponsor with an agreement confirming that the design and size of a trial will be appropriate to form the primary basis of an efficacy claim for an NDA if the trial is performed according to the SPA. Even if we believe that the data from a clinical trial are supportive, an SPA is not a guarantee of approval, and we cannot be certain that the design of, or data collected from, a trial will be adequate to demonstrate safety and efficacy, or otherwise be sufficient to support regulatory approval. There can be no assurance that the terms of an SPA will ultimately be binding on the FDA, and the FDA is not obligated to approve an NDA, if any, even if the clinical outcome is positive. The FDA retains significant latitude and discretion in interpreting the terms of an SPA and the data and results from a clinical trial, and can require trial design changes or additional studies if issues arise essential to determining safety or efficacy. Data may subsequently become available that causes the FDA to reconsider the previously agreed upon scope of review and the FDA may have subsequent safety or efficacy concerns that override an SPA, and we can give no assurance that as clinical trials proceed or as part of an NDA review process, if any, the FDA will determine that a previously approved SPA is still valid. Additionally, an SPA may be changed only with written agreement of the FDA and sponsor, and any further changes we may propose to the protocol will remain subject to the FDA’s approval. The FDA may not agree to any such amendment and, even if they agree, they may request other amendments to the trial design that could require additional cost and time, as well as increase the degree of difficulty in reaching clinical endpoints. As a result, even with an SPA, we cannot be certain that the trial results will be found to be adequate to support an efficacy claim and product approval. Pre-clinical studies and Phase 1 or 2 clinical trials of TH-302 may not predict the results of subsequent human clinical trials. Pre-clinical studies, including studies of our product candidates in animal models of disease, may not accurately predict the result of human clinical trials of those product candidates. In particular, promising animal studies suggesting the efficacy of TH-302 for the treatment of different types of cancer may not accurately predict the ability of TH-302 to treat cancer effectively in humans. TH-302 may be found not to be efficacious in treating cancer, alone or in combination with other agents, when studied in human clinical trials. In addition, we will not be able to commercialize our drug candidates until we obtain FDA approval in the United States or approval by comparable regulatory agencies in Europe and other countries. To satisfy FDA or foreign regulatory approval standards for the commercial sale of our product candidates, we must demonstrate in adequate and controlled clinical trials that our product candidates are safe and effective. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials, including Phase 2 trials, does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful. Our initial results from clinical trials of TH-302 in Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials may not be confirmed by later analysis or subsequent larger clinical trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including us, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results in earlier clinical trials. Our product candidates must undergo rigorous clinical testing, the results of which are uncertain and could substantially delay or prevent us from bringing them to market. Before we can obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate, we must undertake extensive clinical testing in humans to demonstrate safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA or other regulatory agencies. Clinical trials of new drug candidates sufficient to obtain regulatory marketing approval are expensive and take years to complete. We cannot be certain of successfully completing clinical testing within the time frame we have planned, or at all. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent us from receiving regulatory approval or commercializing our product candidates, including the following: • our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical and/or preclinical testing or to abandon programs; 25 Table of Contents • the results obtained in earlier stage clinical testing may not be indicative of results in future clinical trials; • clinical trial results may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or other regulatory agencies; • enrollment in our clinical trials for our product candidates may be slower than we anticipate, resulting in significant delays and additional expense; • we, or regulators, may suspend or terminate our clinical trials if the participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; and • the effects of our product candidates on patients may not be the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or other characteristics that may delay or preclude regulatory approval or limit their commercial use, if approved. Completion of clinical trials depends, among other things, on our ability to enroll a sufficient number of patients, which is a function of many factors, including: • the therapeutic endpoints chosen for evaluation; • the eligibility criteria defined in the protocol; • the perceived benefit of the investigational drug under study; • the size of the patient population required for analysis of the clinical trial’s therapeutic endpoints; • our ability to recruit clinical trial investigators and sites with the appropriate competencies and experience; • our ability to obtain and maintain patient consents; and • competition for patients by clinical trial programs for other treatments. We may experience difficulties in enrolling patients in our clinical trials, which could increase the costs or affect the timing or outcome of these clinical trials. This is particularly true with respect to diseases with relatively small patient populations. We are subject to significant regulatory approval requirements, which could delay, prevent or limit our ability to market our product candidates. Our research and development activities, preclinical studies, clinical trials and the anticipated manufacturing and marketing of our product candidates are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and by comparable authorities in Europe and elsewhere. We require the approval of the relevant regulatory authorities before we may commence commercial sales of our product candidates in a given market. The regulatory approval process is expensive and time-consuming, and the timing of receipt of regulatory approval is difficult to predict. Our product candidates could require a significantly longer time to gain regulatory approval than expected, or may never gain approval. We cannot be certain that, even after expending substantial time and financial resources, we will obtain regulatory approval for any of our product candidates. A delay or denial of regulatory approval could delay or prevent our ability to generate product revenues and to achieve profitability. Changes in regulatory approval policies during the development period of any of our product candidates, changes in, or the enactment of, additional regulations or statutes, or changes in regulatory review practices for a submitted product application may cause a delay in obtaining approval or result in the rejection of an application for regulatory approval. 26 Table of Contents Regulatory approval, if obtained, may be made subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which we may market a product. These limitations could adversely affect our potential product revenues. Regulatory approval may also require costly post-marketing follow-up studies. In addition, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and record-keeping related to the product will be subject to extensive ongoing regulatory requirements. Furthermore, for any marketed product, its manufacturer and its manufacturing facilities will be subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA or other regulatory authorities. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements may, among other things, result in fines, suspensions of regulatory approvals, product recalls, product seizures, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. Our product candidates are based on targeting the microenvironment of solid tumors and hematological malignancies, which currently is an unproven approach to therapeutic intervention. Our product candidates are designed to target the microenvironment of solid tumors and hematological malignancies by, in the case of TH-302, harnessing hypoxia for selective toxin activation. We have not, nor to our knowledge has any other company, received regulatory approval for a drug based on this approach. We cannot be certain that our approach will lead to the development of approvable or marketable drugs. In addition, the FDA or other regulatory agencies may lack experience in evaluating the safety and efficacy of drugs based on these targeting approaches, which could lengthen the regulatory review process, increase our development costs and delay or prevent commercialization of our product candidates. Our product candidates may have undesirable side effects that prevent or delay their regulatory approval or limit their use if approved. Anti-tumor drugs being developed by us, including TH-302, are expected to have undesirable side effects. For example, in clinical trials of TH-302, some patients have exhibited skin and/or mucosal toxicities that have in some cases caused patients to stop or delay therapy. The extent, severity and clinical significance of these or other undesirable side effects may not be apparent initially and may be discovered or become more significant during drug development or even post-approval. These expected side effects or other side effects identified in the course of our clinical trials or that may otherwise be associated with our product candidates may outweigh the benefits of our product candidates. Side effects may prevent or delay regulatory approval or limit market acceptance if our products are approved. We have not yet gained sufficient experience with a commercial formulation of TH-302. The formulation of TH-302 that we are using in our clinical trials was recently changed to address issues with a prior formulation that was subject to storage and handling requirements that were not be suitable for commercial product. The new formulation of TH-302 may be suitable for commercial product, but additional data will be required to verify this. There can be no assurance that it will be. If we are not able to develop a commercial formulation, we may delay registration of TH-302. Orphan drug exclusivity affords us limited protection, and if another party obtains orphan drug exclusivity for the drugs and indications we are targeting, we may be precluded from commercializing our product candidates in those indications. For those drugs that meet the eligible requirements, we intend to seek orphan drug designation for the cancer indications that our drug candidates are intended to treat. Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drugs intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is defined by the FDA as a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States. The company that obtains the first FDA approval for a designated orphan drug indication receives marketing exclusivity for use of that drug for that indication for a period of seven years. Orphan drug exclusive marketing rights may be lost if the FDA 27 Table of Contents later determines that the request for designation was materially defective, or if the manufacturer is unable to assure sufficient quantity of the drug. Orphan drug designation does not shorten the development or regulatory review time of a drug. Orphan drug exclusivity may not prevent other market entrants. A different drug, or, under limited circumstances, the same drug may be approved by the FDA for the same orphan indication. The limited circumstances include an inability to supply the drug in sufficient quantities or where a new formulation of the drug has shown superior safety or efficacy. As a result, if our product were to be approved and receive orphan drug status, the FDA could still approve other drugs for use in treating the same indication covered by our product, which could create a more competitive market for us. Moreover, due to the uncertainties associated with developing pharmaceutical products, we may not be the first to obtain marketing approval for any orphan drug indication. Even if we obtain orphan drug designation, if a competitor obtains regulatory approval for TH-302 for the same indication we are targeting before we do, we would be blocked from obtaining approval for that indication for seven years, unless our product is a new formulation of the drug that has shown superior safety or efficacy, or the competitor is unable to supply sufficient quantities. Even if we obtain regulatory approval, our marketed drugs will be subject to ongoing regulatory review. If we or Merck KGaA, fail to comply with continuing United States and foreign regulations, we or they could lose our approvals to market drugs and our business would be seriously harmed. Following initial regulatory approval of any drugs we may develop, we and Merck KGaA will be subject to continuing regulatory review, including review of adverse drug experiences and clinical results that are reported after our drug products become commercially available. This would include results from any post-marketing tests or vigilance required as a condition of approval. The manufacturer and manufacturing facilities used to make any of our drug candidates will also be subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA. If a previously unknown problem or problems with a product or a manufacturing and laboratory facility used by us is discovered, the FDA or foreign regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product or on the manufacturing facility, including requiring us to withdraw the product from the market. Any changes to an approved product, including the way it is manufactured or promoted, often require FDA approval before the product, as modified, can be marketed. Manufacturers of our products, if approved, will be subject to ongoing FDA requirements for submission of safety and other post-market information. If such manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: • issue warning letters; • impose civil or criminal penalties; • suspend or withdraw our regulatory approval; • suspend or terminate any of our ongoing clinical trials; • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us; • impose restrictions on our operations; • close the facilities of our contract manufacturers; • seize or detain products or require a product recall, or • revise or restrict labeling and promotion. The FDA and foreign regulatory authorities may impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses and marketing of pharmaceutical products. FDA rules for pharmaceutical promotion require that a company not promote an unapproved drug or an approved drug for an unapproved use. In addition to FDA requirements, regulatory and law enforcement agencies, such as the United States Department of Health and Human Services’ Office of Inspector General and 28 Table of Contents the United States Department of Justice, monitor and investigate pharmaceutical sales, marketing and other practices. For example, sales, marketing and scientific/educational grant programs must comply with the Medicare-Medicaid Anti-Fraud and Abuse Act, as amended, the False Claims Act, as amended, and similar state laws. In recent years, actions by companies’ sales forces and marketing departments have been scrutinized intensely to ensure, among other things, that actions by such groups do not qualify as “kickbacks” to healthcare professionals. A “kickback” refers to the provision of any item of value to a healthcare professional or other person in exchange for purchasing, recommending, or referring an individual for an item or service reimbursable by a federal healthcare program. These kickbacks increase the expenses of the federal healthcare program and may result in civil penalties, criminal prosecutions, and exclusion from participation in government programs, any of which would adversely affect our financial condition and business operations. In addition, even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which would also harm our financial condition. Comparable laws also exist at the state level. We are, and in the future may be, subject to new federal and state requirements to submit information on our open and completed clinical trials to public registries and databases. In 1997, a public registry of open clinical trials involving drugs intended to treat serious or life-threatening diseases or conditions was established under the Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act, or FDMA, in order to promote public awareness of and access to these clinical trials. Under FDMA, pharmaceutical manufacturers and other clinical trial sponsors are required to post the general purpose of these clinical trials, as well as the eligibility criteria, location and contact information of the clinical trials. Since the establishment of this registry, there has been significant public debate focused on broadening the types of clinical trials included in this or other registries, as well as providing for public access to clinical trial results. A voluntary coalition of medical journal editors has adopted a resolution to publish results only from those clinical trials that have been registered with a no-cost, publicly accessible database, such as http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. The Pharmaceuticals and Research Manufacturers of America has also issued voluntary principles for its members to make results from certain clinical trials publicly available and has established a website for this purpose. Other groups have adopted or are considering similar proposals for clinical trial registration and the posting of clinical trial results. The state of Maine has enacted legislation, with penalty provisions, requiring the disclosure of results from clinical trials involving drugs marketed in the state, and similar legislation has been introduced in other states. Federal legislation was introduced in the fall of 2004 to expand http://www.clinicaltrials.gov and to require the inclusion of clinical trial results in this registry. In some states, such as New York, prosecutors have alleged that a lack of disclosure of clinical trial information constitutes fraud, and these allegations have resulted in settlements with pharmaceutical companies that include agreements to post clinical trial results. Our failure to comply with any clinical trial posting requirements could expose us to negative publicity, fines, and other penalties, all of which could materially harm our business. We do not have a sales force and may not develop an effective one. Our license and co-development agreement with Merck KGaA gives us the right, under certain circumstances, to co-promote or co-commercialize TH-302. We have no sales experience, and developing a sales force will require substantial expenditures. We may not be able to effectively recruit, train or retain sales personnel. We may not be able to effectively sell TH-302, if approved, and if we exercise our rights to do so, which could materially harm our business. Risks Related to Our Financial Performance and Operations We have incurred losses since our inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future, and our future profitability is uncertain. We are a development stage company with a limited operating history and no current source of revenue from the commercial sales of our product candidates. We have incurred losses in each year since our inception in 2001, and we expect to incur losses for the foreseeable future. We have devoted, and will continue to devote for the foreseeable future, substantially all of our resources to research and development of our product candidates. 29 Table of Contents For the year ended December 31, 2011, we had a net loss of $25.7 million and our cumulative net loss since our inception through December 31, 2011 was $252.1 million. Clinical trials are costly. We do not expect to generate any revenue from the commercial sales of our product candidates in the near term, and we expect to continue to have significant losses for the foreseeable future. To attain ongoing profitability, we will need to develop products successfully and market and sell them effectively. We cannot predict when we will achieve ongoing profitability, if at all. We have never generated revenue from the commercial sales of our product candidates, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to do so in the future. If we fail to become profitable, or if we are unable to fund our continuing losses, we would be unable to continue our research and development programs. Our financial results are likely to fluctuate from period to period, making it difficult to evaluate our stock based on financial performance. Our quarterly and annual results of operations are likely to fluctuate based on the timing of milestones and payments under our license and development agreement with Merck KGaA. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results should not be relied upon as predictive of future performance. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties encountered by companies with no approved pharmaceutical products, and with products that are undergoing clinical development. We are likely to require substantial additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which could force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our drug discovery, product development and commercialization activities. Developing drugs, conducting clinical trials, and commercializing products is expensive. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing, acquisition or other arrangements that we may establish; • the progress and cost of our clinical trials and other research and development activities; • the costs and timing of obtaining regulatory approvals; • the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent applications, claims, patents and other intellectual property rights; • the cost and timing of securing manufacturing capabilities for our clinical product candidates and commercial products, if any; and • the costs of lawsuits involving us or our product candidates. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to fund the Company’s projected operating requirements for at least the next twelve months based upon current operating plans, milestone payment forecasts and spending assumptions. We expect that we will need to raise additional capital to in-license or otherwise acquire and develop additional products or programs. We expect to seek funds through additional arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to the products candidates that we might otherwise seek to develop or commercialize independently. We cannot be certain that we will be able to enter into any such arrangements on reasonable terms, if at all. We may seek to raise capital through a variety of sources, including: • the public equity market; • private equity financing; • collaborative arrangements; • licensing arrangements; and/or 30 Table of Contents • public or private debt. Our ability to raise additional funds will depend, in part on the outcome of our clinical trials and other clinical and regulatory events, as well as factors related to financial, economic, and market conditions, collaboration or license agreement with others and factors related to financial, economic and market conditions, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot be certain that sufficient funds will be available to us when required or on satisfactory terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to significantly reduce or refocus our operations or to obtain funds through additional arrangements that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our products, technologies or potential markets, any of which could delay or require that we curtail or eliminate some or all of our development programs or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate some of our research and development, which could delay the time to market for any of our product candidates, if adequate funds are not available. If we are unable to secure additional financing on a timely basis or on terms favorable to us, we may be required to cease or reduce certain research and development projects, to sell some or all of our technology or assets or to merge all or a portion of our business with another entity. Insufficient funds may require us to delay, scale back, or eliminate some or all of our activities, and if we are unable to obtain additional funding, there is uncertainty regarding our continued existence. Our success depends in part on retaining and motivating key personnel and, if we fail to do so, it may be more difficult for us to execute our business strategy. As a small organization we are dependent on key employees and may need to hire additional personnel to execute our business strategy successfully. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management, clinical and scientific personnel and on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with leading academic institutions, clinicians and scientists. We are highly dependent upon our senior management and scientific staff, particularly our Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Harold E. Selick, and Senior Vice President of Discovery Research, Dr. Mark G. Matteucci. We do not have an employment agreement with Drs. Selick or Matteucci. The loss of the services of Drs. Selick or Matteucci or one or more of our other key employees could delay or have an impact on the successful completion of our clinical trials or the development of additional product candidates. As of December 31, 2011, we had 31 employees. Our success will depend on our ability to retain and motivate remaining personnel and hire additional qualified personnel when required. Competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology field is intense. We face competition for personnel from other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, universities, public and private research institutions and other organizations. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel on acceptable terms given the competition for such personnel. If we are unsuccessful in our retention, motivation and recruitment efforts, we may be unable to execute our business strategy. Our facilities in California are located near an earthquake fault, and an earthquake or other natural disaster or resource shortage could disrupt our operations. Important documents and records, such as hard copies of our laboratory books and records for our product candidates, are located in our corporate headquarters at a single location in South San Francisco, California, near active earthquake zones. In the event of a natural disaster, such as an earthquake, drought or flood, or localized extended outages of critical utilities or transportation systems, we do not have a formal business continuity or disaster recovery plan, and could therefore experience a significant business interruption. In addition, California from time to time has experienced shortages of water, electric power and natural gas. Future shortages and conservation measures could disrupt our operations and could result in additional expense. Although we maintain business interruption insurance coverage, the policy specifically excludes coverage for earthquake and flood. 31 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties We rely on third parties to manufacture TH-302. If these parties do not manufacture the active pharmaceutical ingredients or finished drug products of satisfactory quality, in a timely manner, in sufficient quantities or at an acceptable cost, clinical development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed. Under our license and co-development agreement with Merck KGaA, we are dependent on Merck for clinical and commercial supply of TH-302, except that for clinical trials for United States approval of TH-302 for soft tissue sarcoma and for any other clinical trials for which we are responsible. In the latter case, we can obtain clinical supply directly from existing or new suppliers. Neither we nor Merck, have entered into any long term manufacturing or supply agreement for TH-302 or for any of our other product candidates. Our current and anticipated future dependence upon others for the manufacture of our product candidates may adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize any product candidates on a timely and competitive basis. We need to have sufficient TH-302 API and drug product to meet the clinical supply demands of our clinical trials. Additional clinical trial material continues to be manufactured as required. We have ordered additional API and drug product; however, we have experienced delays in the receipt of satisfactory drug product, and additional delays in the receipt of satisfactory drug product could cause delays in our clinical trials, which would harm our business. In addition, we will need to obtain additional supplies of TH-302 API and drug product to complete our ongoing studies and any other additional trials. The need for additional supplies may require manufacturing process improvements in TH-302 API and drug product. Changes to the formulation of TH-302 for our clinical trials may also require bridging studies to demonstrate the comparability of the new formulation with the old. These studies may delay our clinical trials and may not be successful. If we are not successful in procuring sufficient TH-302 clinical trial material, we may experience a significant delay in our TH-302 clinical program. Merck will need to enter into additional agreements for additional supplies of TH-302 to complete clinical development and/or commercialize it or develop such capability itself. We cannot be certain that Merck can do so on favorable terms, if at all. The products will need to satisfy all cGMP manufacturing requirements, including passing specifications. Merck’s inability to satisfy these requirements could delay our clinical programs. If TH-302 or any of our other product candidates is approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies for commercial sale, we or Merck as applicable, will need to have it manufactured in commercial quantities. It may not be possible to increase the manufacturing capacity for TH-302 or any of our other product candidates in a timely or economic manner successfully or at all. Significant scale-up of manufacturing may require additional validation studies, which the FDA and other regulatory agencies must review and approve. If Merck with respect to TH-302, or we with respect to our other product candidates, are unable to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for such product candidate, the regulatory approval or commercial launch of that product candidate may be delayed, or there may be a shortage of supply which could limit sales. In addition, if the facility or the equipment in the facility that produces our product candidates is significantly damaged or destroyed, or if the facility is located in another country and trade or commerce with such country is interrupted, we may be unable to replace the manufacturing capacity quickly or inexpensively. The inability to obtain manufacturing agreements, the damage or destruction of a facility on which we rely for manufacturing or any other delays in obtaining supply would delay or prevent us from completing our clinical trials and commercializing our current product candidates. 32 Table of Contents We have no control over our manufacturers’ and suppliers’ compliance with manufacturing regulations, and their failure to comply could result in an interruption in the supply of our product candidates. The facilities used by our contract manufacturers must undergo an inspection by the FDA for compliance with current good manufacturing practice, or cGMP regulations, before the respective product candidates can be approved. In the event these facilities do not receive a satisfactory cGMP inspection for the manufacture of our product candidates, we may need to fund additional modifications to our manufacturing process, conduct additional validation studies, or find alternative manufacturing facilities, any of which would result in significant cost to us as well as a delay of up to several years in obtaining approval for such product candidate. In addition, our contract manufacturers, and any alternative contract manufacturer we may utilize, will be subject to ongoing periodic inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies for compliance with cGMP regulations, similar foreign regulations and other regulatory standards. We do not have control over our contract manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. Any failure by our third-party manufacturers or suppliers to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on them (including fines, injunctions and civil penalties), failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our product candidates, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of product candidates or products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. We rely on third parties to conduct some of our clinical trials, and their failure to perform their obligations in a timely or competent manner may delay development and commercialization of our product candidates. We may use clinical research organizations to assist in conduct of our clinical trials. There are numerous alternative sources to provide these services. However, we may face delays outside of our control if these parties do not perform their obligations in a timely or competent fashion or if we are forced to change service providers. This risk is heightened for clinical trials conducted outside of the United States, where it may be more difficult to ensure that clinical trials are conducted in compliance with FDA requirements. Any third-party that we hire to conduct clinical trials may also provide services to our competitors, which could compromise the performance of their obligations to us. If we experience significant delays in the progress of our clinical trials and in our plans to file NDAs, the commercial prospects for product candidates could be harmed and our ability to generate product revenue would be delayed or prevented. We are dependent on Eleison to develop and commercialize glufosfamide We are dependent upon Eleison Pharmaceuticals, Inc., to whom we exclusively licensed glufosfamide in October 2009, to develop and commercialize glufosfamide. Any profit sharing or other payments to us under the Eleison license depend almost entirely upon the efforts of Eleison, which may not be able to raise sufficient funds to commence clinical development activities with glufosfamide. Even if Eleison is successful at raising initial funding, it may not be successful in developing and commercializing glufosfamide or raising sufficient funds for development and commercialization. We may also be asked to provide technical assistance related to the development of glufosfamide, which may divert our resources from other activities. If the Eleison license terminates in such a way that glufosfamide reverts to us and we seek alternative arrangements with one or more other parties to develop and commercialize glufosfamide, we may not be able to enter into such an agreement with another suitable third party or third parties on acceptable terms or at all. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Hypoxia activated prodrug technology is not a platform technology broadly protected by patents, and others may be able to develop competitive drugs using this approach. Although we have US and foreign issued patents that cover certain hypoxia-activated prodrugs, including TH-302, we have no issued patents or pending patent applications that would prevent others from taking advantage of hypoxia activated prodrug technology generally to discover and develop new therapies for cancer or other diseases. Consequently, our competitors may seek to discover and develop potential therapeutics that operate by mechanisms of action that are the same or similar to the mechanisms of action of our hypoxia activated prodrug product candidates. 33 Table of Contents We are dependent on patents and proprietary technology. If we fail to adequately protect this intellectual property or if we otherwise do not have exclusivity for the marketing of our products, our ability to commercialize products could suffer. Our commercial success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection sufficient to prevent others from marketing our product candidates, as well as to defend and enforce these patents against infringement and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We will only be able to protect our product candidates from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable patents cover our product candidates or their manufacture or use or if they are effectively protected by trade secrets. If our patent applications do not result in issued patents, or if our patents are found to be invalid, we will lose the ability to exclude others from making, using or selling the inventions claimed therein. We have a limited number of patents and pending patent applications. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents has emerged to date in the United States. The laws of many countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as United States laws, and those countries may lack adequate rules and procedures for defending our intellectual property rights. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. We do not know whether any of our patent applications will result in the issuance of any patents and we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed in our patent applications or in the patent applications we may license from others. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example: • we might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications and issued patents, and we may have to participate in expensive and protracted interference proceedings to determine priority of invention; • we might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop identical, similar or alternative product candidates to any of our product candidates; • our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents; • our issued patents may not provide a basis for commercially viable products or may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties; • others may design around our patent claims to produce competitive products that fall outside the scope of our patents; • we may not develop additional patentable proprietary technologies related to our product candidates; or • the patents of others may prevent us from marketing one or more of our product candidates for one or more indications that may be valuable to our business strategy. Moreover, an issued patent does not guarantee us the right to practice the patented technology or commercialize the patented product. Third parties may have blocking patents that could be used to prevent us from commercializing our patented products and practicing our patented technology. Our issued patents and those that may be issued in the future may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to prevent competitors from marketing the same or related product candidates or could limit the length of the term of patent protection of our product candidates. In addition, the rights granted under any issued patents may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar 34 Table of Contents technology. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop similar technologies. Moreover, because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that, before any of our product candidates can be commercialized, any related patent may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization, thereby reducing any advantage of the patent. Patent term extensions may not be available for these patents. We rely on trade secrets and other forms of non-patent intellectual property protection. If we are unable to protect our trade secrets, other companies may be able to compete more effectively against us. We rely on trade secrets to protect certain aspects of our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect, especially in the pharmaceutical industry, where much of the information about a product must be made public during the regulatory approval process. Although we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using our trade secret information is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States may be less willing to or may not protect trade secrets. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties or if we are forced to engage in an interference proceeding, it will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in that litigation or interference would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to commercialize our product candidates depends on our ability to develop, manufacture, market and sell our product candidates without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous United States and foreign patents and patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the general field of cancer therapies or in fields that otherwise may relate to our product candidates. If we are shown to infringe, we could be enjoined from use or sale of the claimed invention if we are unable to prove that the patent is invalid. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending patent applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that our product candidates may infringe, or which may trigger an interference proceeding regarding one of our owned or licensed patents or applications. There could also be existing patents of which we are not aware that our product candidates may inadvertently infringe or which may become involved in an interference proceeding. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. For so long as our product candidates are in clinical trials, we believe our clinical activities fall within the scope of the exemptions provided by 35 U.S.C. Section 271(e) in the United States, which exempts from patent infringement liability activities reasonably related to the development and submission of information to the FDA. As our clinical investigational drug product candidates progress toward commercialization, the possibility of a patent infringement claim against us increases. While we attempt to ensure that our active clinical investigational drugs and the methods we employ to manufacture them, as well as the methods for their use we intend to promote, do not infringe other parties’ patents and other proprietary rights, we cannot be certain they do not, and competitors or other parties may assert that we infringe their proprietary rights in any event. We may be exposed to future litigation based on claims that our product candidates, or the methods we employ to manufacture them, or the uses for which we intend to promote them, infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Our ability to manufacture and commercialize our product candidates may depend on our ability to demonstrate that the manufacturing processes we employ and the use of our product candidates do not infringe third-party patents. If third-party patents were found to cover our product candidates or their use or manufacture, we could be required to pay damages or be enjoined and therefore unable to commercialize our product candidates, unless we obtained a license. A license may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. 35 Table of Contents Risks Related To Our Industry If our competitors are able to develop and market products that are more effective, safer or more affordable than ours, or obtain marketing approval before we do, our commercial opportunities may be limited. Competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries is intense and continues to increase, particularly in the area of cancer treatment. Most major pharmaceutical companies and many biotechnology companies are aggressively pursuing oncology development programs, including traditional therapies and therapies with novel mechanisms of action. Our cancer product candidates face competition from established biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, including sanofi-aventis, AstraZeneca PLC, Genentech, Inc., Bayer Corporation, Eli Lilly and Company and Pfizer, Inc. and from generic pharmaceutical manufacturers. In particular, our drug candidates for pancreatic cancer will compete with Gemzar, marketed by Eli Lilly and Company, doxorubicin, cisplatin, paclitaxel, ifosfamide, and 5-flurouracil, or 5-FU, a generic product which is sold by many manufacturers. In addition, several drugs marketed for different indications, such as Camptosar ® , marketed by Pfizer, Inc., Erbitux ® , marketed by Imclone Systems Inc. and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Taxotere ® , marketed by sanofi-aventis, DTIC-Dome ® , marketed by Bayer Pharmaceuticals Corporation, Xeloda ® , marketed by Hoffmann-LaRoche, Inc., Avastin ® , marketed by Genentech, Inc., Nexavar ® , marketed by Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Bayer AG, and Alimta ® , marketed by Eli Lilly and Company, are under investigation or have completed investigation as combination therapies or monotherapy for pancreatic, prostate, ovarian, non small cell lung and small cell lung cancers, melanoma and soft tissue sarcoma. Additionally OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Genentech, Inc. market Tarceva ® as a combination therapy with gemcitabine for the first-line treatment of pancreatic cancer. In addition, Proacta Inc. has a compound under clinical investigation that targets the hypoxic zones of tumors, as our TH-302 clinical product candidate is intended to do. Novacea has conducted studies on AQ4N and sanofi-aventis recently completed a Phase 3 clinical trial on Tirapazamine, a hypoxically activated prodrug, and while Novacea has stopped current clinical development of AQ4N and sanofi-aventis has released rights to the compound to the innovator SRI, another company may pursue further clinical development of either compound. Celgene Corporation is conducting clinical trials of Abraxene® as a combination therapy for first-line treatment of pancreatic cancer. ZIOPHARM Oncology Inc. is conducting clinical trials of a compound as a combination therapy for first-line treatment of advanced soft tissue sarcoma. We also face potential competition from academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions engaged in the discovery and development of drugs and therapies. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing, sales and marketing than we do. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established pharmaceutical companies. Our competitors may succeed in developing products that are more effective, have fewer side effects and are safer or more affordable than our product candidates, which would render our product candidates less competitive or noncompetitive. These competitors also compete with us to recruit and retain qualified scientific and management personnel, establish clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as to acquire technologies and technology licenses complementary to our programs or advantageous to our business. Moreover, competitors that are able to achieve patent protection obtain regulatory approvals and commence commercial sales of their products before we do, and competitors that have already done so, may enjoy a significant competitive advantage. 36 Table of Contents There is a substantial risk of product liability claims in our business. If we do not obtain sufficient liability insurance, a product liability claim could result in substantial liabilities. Our business exposes us to significant potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development, manufacturing and marketing of human therapeutic products. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: • delay or failure to complete our clinical trials; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • decreased demand for our product candidates; • injury to our reputation; • litigation costs; • substantial monetary awards against us; and • diversion of management or other resources from key aspects of our operations. If we succeed in marketing products, product liability claims could result in an FDA investigation of the safety or efficacy of our products, our manufacturing processes and facilities or our marketing programs. An FDA investigation could also potentially lead to a recall of our products or more serious enforcement actions, or limitations on the indications, for which they may be used, or suspension or withdrawal of approval. We have product liability insurance that covers our clinical trials up to a $5 million annual aggregate limit. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if marketing approval is obtained for our product candidates or any other compound that we may develop. However, insurance coverage is expensive and we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or at all, and the insurance coverage that we obtain may not be adequate to cover potential claims or losses. Even if we receive regulatory approval to market our product candidates, the market may not be receptive to our product candidates upon their commercial introduction, which would negatively affect our ability to achieve profitability. Our product candidates may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community. The degree of market acceptance of any approved products will depend on a number of factors, including: • the effectiveness of the product; • the prevalence and severity of any side effects; • potential advantages or disadvantages over alternative treatments; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • the strength of marketing and distribution support; • the price of the product, both in absolute terms and relative to alternative treatments; and • sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. If our product candidates receive regulatory approval but do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, healthcare payors and patients, we may not generate product revenues sufficient to attain profitability. If third-party payors do not adequately reimburse patients for any of our product candidates, if approved for marketing, we may not be successful in selling them. Our ability to commercialize any products successfully will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement will be available from governmental and other third-party payors, both in the United States and in 37 Table of Contents foreign markets. Even if we succeed in bringing one or more products to the market, the amount reimbursed for our products may be insufficient to allow us to compete effectively and could adversely affect our profitability. Reimbursement by a governmental and other third-party payor may depend upon a number of factors, including a governmental or other third-party payor’s determination that use of a product is: • a covered benefit under its health plan; • safe, effective and medically necessary; • appropriate for the specific patient; • cost-effective; and • neither experimental nor investigational. Obtaining reimbursement approval for a product from each third-party and governmental payor is a time-consuming and costly process that could require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data for the use of our products to each payor. We may not be able to provide data sufficient to obtain reimbursement. Eligibility for coverage does not imply that any drug product will be reimbursed in all cases or at a rate that allows us to make a profit. Interim payments for new products, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover our costs and may not become permanent. Reimbursement rates may vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on payments allowed for lower-cost drugs that are already reimbursed, may be incorporated into existing payments for other products or services and may reflect budgetary constraints and/or Medicare or Medicaid data used to calculate these rates. Net prices for products also may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs or by any future relaxation of laws that restrict imports of certain medical products from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the United States. The health care industry is experiencing a trend toward containing or reducing costs through various means, including lowering reimbursement rates, limiting therapeutic class coverage and negotiating reduced payment schedules with service providers for drug products. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, or MMA, became law in November 2003 and created a broader prescription drug benefit for Medicare beneficiaries. The MMA also contains provisions intended to reduce or eliminate delays in the introduction of generic drug competition at the end of patent or nonpatent market exclusivity. The impact of the MMA on drug prices and new drug utilization over the next several years is unknown. The MMA also made adjustments to the physician fee schedule and the measure by which prescription drugs are presently paid, changing from Average Wholesale Price to Average Sales Price. The effects of these changes are unknown but may include decreased utilization of new medicines in physician prescribing patterns, and further pressure on drug company sponsors to provide discount programs and reimbursement support programs. There have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, federal and state proposals to constrain expenditures for medical products and services, which may affect reimbursement levels for our future products. In addition, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services frequently change product descriptors, coverage policies, product and service codes, payment methodologies and reimbursement values. Third-party payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates and may have sufficient market power to demand significant price reductions. Foreign governments tend to impose strict price controls, which may adversely affect our future profitability. In some foreign countries, particularly in the European Union, prescription drug pricing is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing 38 Table of Contents approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our product candidate to other available therapies. If reimbursement of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our profitability will be negatively affected. We may incur significant costs complying with environmental laws and regulations, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to significant liabilities. Our research and development activities use biological and hazardous materials that are dangerous to human health and safety or the environment. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and wastes resulting from these materials. We are also subject to regulation by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, or OSHA, the California and federal environmental protection agencies and to regulation under the Toxic Substances Control Act. OSHA or the California or federal Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, may adopt regulations that may affect our research and development programs. We are unable to predict whether any agency will adopt any regulations that could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in the ordinary course of our business in complying with these laws and regulations. Although we believe our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from the use, storage, handling or disposal of hazardous materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could significantly exceed our insurance coverage. Risks Related To Our Common Stock A significant number of shares of our common stock are subject to issuance upon exercise of outstanding warrants, which upon such exercise would result in dilution to our security holders. On March 16, 2011, we issued warrants to purchase an aggregate of 5,725,227 shares of our common stock, at an exercise price of $2.46 per share. On October 5, 2009, we issued outstanding warrants to purchase an aggregate of 7,329,819 shares of our common stock, at an exercise price of $2.23 per share, which exercise price was subsequently reduced to $2.05 per share on March 16, 2011 under the anti-dilution provisions of the warrants as a result of our March 2011 registered offering of common stock and warrants. In addition, on August 29, 2008, we issued outstanding warrants to purchase an aggregate of 3,588,221 shares of our common stock, at an exercise price of $2.34 per share, which exercise price was subsequently reduced to $1.86 per share on October 5, 2009 under the anti-dilution provisions of the warrants as a result of our October 2009 private placement. The exercise price and/or the number of shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants may be adjusted in certain circumstances, including certain issuances of securities at a price equal to less than the then current exercise price (which could result from, for example, sales under our at market issuance sales agreement dated October 29, 2010), subdivisions and stock splits, stock dividends, combinations, reorganizations, reclassifications, consolidations, mergers or sales of properties and assets and upon the issuance of certain assets or securities to holders of our common stock, as applicable. Although we cannot determine at this time which of these warrants will ultimately be exercised, it is reasonable to assume that such warrants will be exercised only if the exercise price is below the market price of our common stock. To the extent the warrants are exercised, additional shares of our common stock will be issued that will be eligible for resale in the public market, which will result in dilution to our security holders. The issuance of additional securities could also have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. The price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The stock markets in general, the markets for biotechnology stocks and, in particular, the stock price of our common stock, have experienced extreme volatility. 39 Table of Contents Price declines in our common stock could result from general market and economic conditions and a variety of other factors, including: • adverse results or delays in our clinical trials; • announcements of FDA non-approval of our product candidates, or delays in the FDA or other foreign regulatory agency review process; • our or Merck’s failure to meet milestones that would have given rise to payments under our agreement with Merck; • announcements by Merck related to the development of TH-302 or announcements related to our agreement with Merck; • adverse actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to our product candidates, clinical trials, manufacturing processes or sales and marketing activities; • announcements of technological innovations, patents or new products by our competitors; • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • any lawsuit involving us or our product candidates; • announcements concerning our competitors, or the biotechnology or pharmaceutical industries in general; • developments concerning any strategic alliances or acquisitions we may enter into; • actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; • changes in recommendations by securities analysts or lack of analyst coverage; • deviations in our operating results from the estimates of analysts; • sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors and five percent stockholders or sales of substantial amounts of common stock; and • loss of any of our key scientific or management personnel. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, litigation has often been brought against that company. Any such lawsuit could consume resources and management time and attention, which could adversely affect our business. If our officers, directors and largest stockholders choose to act together, they may be able to control our management and operations, acting in their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. As of December 31, 2011, our officers, directors and other affiliates beneficially owned approximately 15.9% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, will be able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with the interests of other stockholders, and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage another company from acquiring us and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions of Delaware law, where we are incorporated, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including 40 Table of Contents transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our board of directors. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock without any need for action by stockholders; • providing for a classified board of directors with staggered terms; • requiring supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; • eliminating the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, in August 2006, our board of directors adopted a preferred shares rights agreement, the provisions of which could make it more difficult for a potential acquirer to consummate a transaction without the approval of our board of directors. We have never paid dividends on our common stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be our stockholders’ sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. We may not maintain the listing of our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market. Our ability to raise additional capital may be dependent upon our stock being quoted on the NASDAQ Capital Market. Previously, we had fallen out of compliance with continued listing requirements because our common stock did not comply with the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement for continued listing set forth in NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5450(a)(1) (formerly Rule 4450(a)(5)). To regain compliance, effective August 20, 2008, we implemented a 1-for-6 reverse stock split of our common stock. After that date, our common stock traded above the minimum $1.00 bid price for at least ten consecutive business days and on September 5, 2008, the NASDAQ Stock Market notified us that we had regained compliance with the minimum bid price requirements. Even though we regained compliance with the minimum bid price, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement or other listing requirements in the future, and our failure to do so could result in the delisting of our shares from the NASDAQ Capital Market. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 