Item 1A. Risk Factors.The following are risks related to our business.A prolonged economic recovery or a deterioration in the economic or inflationary environment in the United States or the European Union, particularly in the United Kingdom, may have an adverse effect on our collections, results of operations, revenue and stock price.Our performance may be affected by economic or inflationary conditions in the United States and the European Union, particularly in the United Kingdom. Economic conditions in the United States and the European Union may be impacted by domestic conditions or by global political and economic conditions such as the recent sovereign debt crises experienced in several European countries. There are currently concerns regarding the action or inaction of the United States government relating to the federal debt ceiling, the federal deficit and government spending cuts. For example, the United States domestic economy may be negatively impacted if the Congress does not pass legislation in early 2013 to raise the federal debt ceiling or fails to reach agreement on government spending cuts relating to the “fiscal cliff” that was avoided at the end of 2012. Deterioration in economic conditions, a prolonged economic recovery, or a significant rise in inflation could cause personal bankruptcy filings to increase, and the ability of consumers to pay their debts could be adversely affected. This may in turn adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, revenue and stock price. Deteriorating economic conditions or a prolonged recovery could also adversely impact businesses and governmental entities to which we provide fee-based services, which could reduce our fee income and cash flow and thereby adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, and stock price. Other factors associated with the economy that could influence our performance include the financial stability of the lenders on our line of credit, our access to capital and credit, and financial factors affecting consumers.The financial turmoil which affected the banking system and financial markets in recent years has resulted in a tightening in credit markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the financial turmoil on our business, including a decrease in the value of our financial investments and the insolvency of lending institutions, including the lenders on our line of credit, resulting in our inability to obtain credit. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We may not be able to purchase defaulted consumer receivables at appropriate prices, and a decrease in our ability to purchase portfolios of receivables could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue.If we are unable to purchase defaulted receivables from debt owners at appropriate prices, or one or more debt owners stop selling defaulted receivables to us, we could lose a potential source of cash flow and revenue, and our business may be harmed. The availability of receivables portfolios at prices which generate an appropriate return on our investment depends on a number of factors both within and outside of our control, including the following:•the continuation of high levels of consumer debt obligations;•sales of defaulted receivables portfolios by debt owners; and•competitive factors affecting potential purchasers and credit originators of receivables.Moreover, there can be no assurance that our existing or potential clients will continue to sell their defaulted consumer receivables at recent levels or at all, or that we will be able to continue to offer competitive bids for defaulted consumer receivables portfolios. If we are unable to expand our business or adapt to changing market needs as well as our current or future competitors, we may experience reduced access to defaulted consumer receivables portfolios at appropriate prices and reduced profitability.Because of the length of time involved in collecting defaulted consumer receivables on acquired portfolios and the variability in the timing of our collections, we may not be able to identify trends and make changes in our purchasing strategies in a timely manner.We may not be able to continually replace our defaulted consumer receivables with additional receivables portfolios sufficient to operate efficiently and profitably.To operate profitably, we must acquire and service a sufficient amount of defaulted consumer receivables to generate revenue that exceeds our expenses. Fixed costs such as salaries and lease or other facility costs constitute a significant portion of our overhead and, if we do not replace the defaulted consumer receivables portfolios we service with additional portfolios, we may have to reduce the number of our collection personnel. We would then have to rehire collection staff as we obtain additional defaulted consumer receivables portfolios. These practices could lead to:17Table of Contents•low employee morale;•fewer experienced employees;•higher training costs;•disruptions in our operations;•loss of efficiency; and•excess costs associated with unused space in our facilities.Furthermore, heightened regulation of the credit card and consumer lending industry or changing credit origination strategies may result in decreased availability of credit to consumers, potentially leading to a future reduction in defaulted consumer receivables available for purchase from debt owners. We cannot predict how our ability to identify and purchase receivables and the quality of those receivables would be affected if there were a shift in consumer lending practices, whether caused by changes in the regulations or accounting practices applicable to debt owners, a sustained economic downturn or otherwise.A portion of our collections depends on success in individual lawsuits. Additionally, in pursuing legal collections, we may be unable to obtain accurate and authentic account documents for accounts that we purchase, and despite our quality control measures, we cannot be certain that all of the documents we provide are error free.A portion of our collections on accounts is achieved through the legal channel. Accordingly, a percentage of our future collections is dependent on success in individual lawsuits, and a portion of those are dependent on the success of third party attorney firms. In addition, when we collect accounts judicially, courts in certain jurisdictions require that a copy of certain account documents be attached to the pleadings in order to obtain a judgment against the account debtors. If we are unable to produce accurate and authentic account documents, these courts will deny our claims. We rely on the seller of accounts that we purchase to fulfill its contractual obligation, if applicable, to provide account documents to us in an accurate and timely fashion. Additionally, we rely on our employees to produce accurate and authentic documents. Our inability to obtain these documents from the seller, or our own errors in producing account documents, may negatively impact the liquidation rate on such accounts that are subject to judicial collections. Additionally, our ability to collect non-judicially may be negatively impacted by state laws which require that certain types of account documentation be in our possession prior to the institution of any collection activities.We may not be able to collect sufficient amounts on our defaulted consumer receivables to fund our operations.Our business primarily consists of acquiring and liquidating receivables that consumers have failed to pay and that the credit originator has deemed uncollectible and has charged-off. The debt owners have typically made numerous attempts to recover on their defaulted consumer receivables, often using a combination of in-house recovery efforts and third-party collection agencies. These defaulted consumer receivables are difficult to collect and we may not collect a sufficient amount to cover our investment associated with purchasing the defaulted consumer receivables and the costs of running our business.We may not be successful at acquiring receivables of new asset types.We may pursue the acquisition of receivables portfolios of asset types in which we have little current experience. We may not be successful in completing any acquisitions of receivables of these asset types and our limited experience in these asset types may impair our ability to collect on these receivables. This may cause us to pay too much for these receivables and, consequently, we may not generate a profit from these receivables portfolio acquisitions. Our collections may decrease if certain types of bankruptcy filings involving liquidations increase.Various economic trends and potential changes to existing legislation may contribute to an increase in the amount of personal bankruptcy filings. Under certain bankruptcy filings a debtor's assets may be sold to repay creditors, but because the defaulted consumer receivables we service are generally unsecured we often would not be able to collect on those receivables. We cannot ensure that our collections would not decline with an increase in personal bankruptcy filings or a change in bankruptcy regulations or practices. If our actual collection experience with respect to a defaulted bankrupt consumer receivables portfolio is significantly lower than we projected when we purchased the portfolio, our financial condition and results of operations could deteriorate.Our ability to collect on portfolios of bankrupt consumer receivables may be impacted by changes in federal laws or changes in the administrative practices of the various bankruptcy courts.We file claims in bankruptcy courts on consumer receivables in which consumers have filed for bankruptcy protection under available U.S. bankruptcy laws. We receive payments from the courts on consumer receivables which become bankrupt after we acquire them, and we also purchase accounts that are currently in bankruptcy proceedings. Our ability to collect on portfolios of 18Table of Contentsbankrupt consumer receivables may be impacted by changes in federal laws or changes in administrative practices of the various bankruptcy courts.Our ability to collect and enforce our finance receivables may be limited under federal and state laws.The businesses conducted by PRA's operating subsidiaries are subject to licensing and regulation by governmental and regulatory bodies in the many jurisdictions in which we operate and conduct our business. Federal and state laws may limit our ability to collect and enforce our defaulted consumer receivables regardless of any act or omission on our part. Some laws and regulations applicable to credit issuers may preclude us from collecting on defaulted consumer receivables we purchase if the credit issuer previously failed to comply with applicable laws in generating or servicing those receivables. Collection laws and regulations also directly apply to our business. Such laws and regulations are extensive and subject to change. Additional consumer protection and privacy protection laws may be enacted that would impose additional requirements on the enforcement of and collection on consumer credit receivables. Any new laws, rules or regulations that may be adopted, as well as existing consumer protection and privacy protection laws, may adversely affect our ability to collect on our defaulted consumer receivables and may harm our business. In addition, federal, state and local governmental bodies are considering, and may consider in the future, legislative proposals that would regulate the collection of our defaulted consumer receivables. Further, certain tax laws could negatively impact our ability to collect or cause us to incur additional expenses. Although we cannot predict if or how any future legislation would impact our business, our failure to comply with any current or future laws or regulations applicable to us could limit our ability to collect on our defaulted consumer receivables, which could reduce our profitability and harm our business.Failure to comply with existing and new government regulation of the collections industry could result in penalties, fines, litigation, damage to our reputation or the suspension or termination of our ability to conduct our business.The collections industry is governed by various U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations, as well as by laws and regulations in the U.K. Many states regulate our business and require us to be a licensed debt collector. Our industry is also at times investigated by regulators and offices of state attorneys general, which could lead to enforcement actions, fines and penalties, or the assertion of private claims and law suits against us. The Federal Trade Commission has the authority to investigate consumer complaints against debt collection companies and to recommend enforcement actions and seek monetary penalties. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, such failure could result in penalties, litigation losses and expenses, damage to our reputation, or the suspension or termination of our ability to conduct collections, which would materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and stock price. In addition, new federal and state or local laws or regulations or changes in the ways that existing rules or laws are interpreted or enforced could limit our activities in the future or significantly increase the cost of compliance. Furthermore, judges or regulatory bodies could interpret current rules or laws differently than the way we do, leading to such adverse consequences described above. The resolution of such matters may require considerable time and expense, and if not resolved in our favor, may result in fines or damages, and possibly result in an adverse effect on our financial condition.Changes in governmental laws and regulations could increase our costs and liabilities or impact our operations. Changes in laws and regulations or the manner in which they are interpreted or applied may alter our business environment. This could affect our results of operations or increase our liabilities. These negative impacts could result from changes in collection laws, laws related to credit reporting, laws related to consumer bankruptcy, accounting standards, taxation requirements, employment laws and communications laws, among others. For example, we know that federal and state governments are currently reviewing existing laws related to debt collection, in order to determine if any changes are needed. Additionally, in July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act became law. The Dodd-Frank Act restructures the regulation and supervision of the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new independent regulator, the CFPB, with rulemaking, supervisory, and enforcement authority over larger consumer debt collectors, as a result of which, we may become subject to examination, the frequency and scope of which are unknown. The Dodd-Frank Act also provides for the CFPB to have the authority to adopt rules describing specified acts and practices as being “unfair,” “deceptive,” or “abusive,” and hence unlawful. If we become subject to additional costs or liabilities in the future resulting from our supervision or examination by the CFPB, or by changes in, or additions to laws and regulations, that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.We may make business acquisitions that prove unsuccessful or strain or divert our resources.Through acquisitions, we may enter markets in which we have no or limited experience. Further, acquisitions may place additional constraints on our resources by diverting the attention of our management team from other business concerns. Moreover, any acquisition may result in a potentially dilutive issuance of equity securities or may result in the incurrence of additional debt and amortization expenses of related intangible assets, which could reduce our profitability and harm our business.19Table of ContentsWe intend to consider acquisitions of companies that could complement our business, including the acquisition of entities offering greater access and expertise in other asset types and markets that are related but that we do not currently serve. We may not be able to successfully operate future acquired entities, or integrate these businesses with our own, and we may be unable to maintain our standards, controls and policies.Our international operations expose us to additional risks which could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition.In 2012, we acquired MHH, a United Kingdom debt collection and purchase group, and we may expand our international operations in the future. We have limited operating experience in international markets. In addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our international operations expose us to numerous risks and uncertainties, including the following:•Changes in local political, economic, social and labor conditions in the European Union, particularly in the United Kingdom,•Foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the United States,•Currency exchange rate fluctuations and our ability to manage these fluctuations through a foreign exchange risk management program,•Different employee/employer relationships, laws and regulations and existence of employment tribunals,•Laws and regulations imposed by foreign governments, including those relating to governing data security, sharing and transfer,•Potentially adverse tax consequences resulting from changes in tax laws in the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate; and•Logistical, communications and other challenges caused by distance and cultural differences, making it harder to do business in certain jurisdictions.Any one of these factors could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.Compliance with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations could increase our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions. Compliance with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations could increase our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions. These laws and regulations include anti-corruption laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), the UK Bribery Act of 2010 and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, and those related to taxation. The FCPA, and similar antibribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit U.S.-based companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. The U.K. Bribery Act 2010 prohibits certain entities from making improper payments to governmental officials and to commercial entities. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties; criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees; prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies.Exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.Because we conduct business in currencies other than U.S. dollars but report our financial results in U.S. dollars, we face exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. As a result, significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our net income. We may or may not implement a hedging program related to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Additionally, if implemented, such hedging programs could expose us to additional risks that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Goodwill or other intangible asset impairment could negatively impact our net income and stockholders' equity.Goodwill is not amortized, but is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment annually and between annual tests if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. There are numerous risks that may cause the fair value of a reporting unit to fall below its carrying amount, which could lead to the recognition of goodwill impairment. These risks include, but are not limited to, adverse changes in macroeconomic conditions, the business climate, or the market for the entity's products or services; significant 20Table of Contentsvariances between actual and expected financial results; lowered expectations of future results; failure to realize anticipated synergies from acquisitions; a more likely-than-not expectation of selling or disposing all or a portion of a reporting unit; the loss of key personnel; a sustained decline in the Company's market capitalization; and an adverse action or assessment by a regulator. Other intangible assets, such as client and customer relationships, non-compete agreements and trademarks, are amortized. Risks, such as those that could lead to the recognition of goodwill impairment, could also lead to the recognition of other intangible asset impairment. The loss of customers in our fee-for-service businesses could negatively affect our operations.Our fee-for-service customers, in general, may terminate their relationship with us on 30 to 90 days' prior notice. In the event a customer or customers terminate or significantly cut back any relationship with us, it could reduce our profitability and harm our business. Additionally, with respect to the acquisitions of our fee businesses a significant portion of the valuation of such business was attributed to existing client and customer relationships. Therefore, a loss of customers in these businesses could give rise to an impairment charge related to intangible assets specifically ascribed to existing client and customer relationships.Our senior management team is important to our continued success and the loss of one or more members of senior management could negatively affect our operations.The loss of the services of one or more of our key executive officers or key employees could disrupt our operations. We have employment agreements with Steve Fredrickson, our president, chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors, Kevin Stevenson, our executive vice president and chief financial and administrative officer, and several of our other senior executives. The current agreements contain non-compete provisions that survive termination of employment. However, these agreements do not and will not assure the continued services of these officers and we cannot ensure that the non-compete provisions will be enforceable. Our success depends on the continued service and performance of our key executive officers, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to retain those individuals.Our work force could become unionized in the future, which could adversely affect the stability of our operations and increase our costs.Currently, none of our employees are represented by unions. However, our U.S. employees have the right at any time under the National Labor Relations Act to form or affiliate with a union. If some or all of our workforce were to become unionized and the terms of the collective bargaining agreement were significantly different from our current compensation arrangements, it could adversely affect the stability of our work force and increase our costs. We experience high employee turnover rates and we may not be able to hire and retain enough sufficiently trained employees to support our operations.The receivables management industry is very labor intensive and, similar to other companies in our industry, we typically experience a high rate of employee turnover. We experience higher productivity with more seasoned collectors. Our annual turnover rate for the past several years for collectors who complete our multi-week training program has ranged between 58% and 61%. We compete for qualified personnel with companies in our industry and in other industries. Our growth requires that we continually hire and train new collectors. A higher turnover rate among our collectors will increase our recruiting and training costs and limit the number of experienced collection personnel available to service our Core defaulted consumer receivables. If this were to occur, we would not be able to service our Core defaulted consumer receivables effectively and this would reduce our ability to continue our growth and operate profitably.We may not be able to retain, renegotiate or replace our existing credit facility.Our credit facility includes an aggregate principal amount available of $600.0 million which consists of a $200.0 variable rate term loan and a $400.0 million revolving facility that both mature on December 19, 2017. If we are unable to retain, renegotiate or replace our credit facility, our growth could be adversely affected, which could negatively impact liquidity, our business operations and the price of our common stock. We may not be able to continue to satisfy the restrictive covenants in our debt agreements.Our debt agreements impose a number of covenants, including restrictive covenants on how we operate our business. Failure to satisfy any one of these covenants could result in negative consequences including the following, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to conduct business:•acceleration of outstanding indebtedness;•exercise by our lenders of rights with respect to the collateral pledged under certain of our outstanding indebtedness;21Table of Contents•our inability to continue to purchase receivables needed to operate our business; or•our inability to secure alternative financing on favorable terms, if at all.Changes in interest rates could increase our interest expense and reduce our net income. Our future hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating our risks associated with changes in interest rates and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, as could our failure to comply with hedge accounting principles and interpretations.Our revolving credit facility bears interest at a variable rate. Increases in interest rates could increase our interest expense which would, in turn, lower our earnings. From time to time, we may enter into hedging transactions to mitigate our interest rate risk on a portion of our credit facility. Our hedging strategies rely on assumptions and projections. If these assumptions and projections prove to be incorrect or our hedges do not adequately mitigate the impact of changes in interest rates, we may experience volatility in our earnings that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We had no interest rate hedge contracts at December 31, 2012.In addition, hedge accounting in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 815 “Derivatives and Hedging” requires the application of significant subjective judgments to a body of accounting concepts that is complex and for which the interpretations have continued to evolve within the accounting profession and among the standard-setting bodies. Our failure to comply with hedge accounting principles and interpretations in the future could result in the loss of the applicability of hedge accounting which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Additional taxes levied on us could harm our financial results.PRA is subject to taxes in the U.S. and the United Kingdom. PRA's future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. Any of these changes could have a material adverse effect on PRA's profitability. The determination of the worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. Our tax filings are subject to audit by domestic and foreign tax authorities. These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes, adjustments to the timing of taxable income or deductions or allocations of income among tax jurisdictions. If any such challenges are made and are not resolved in our favor, they could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We file domestic income tax returns using the cost recovery method for tax revenue recognition as it relates to our debt purchasing business. The Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) has audited and issued a Notice of Deficiency for the tax years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. It has asserted that cost recovery for tax revenue recognition does not clearly reflect taxable income and that unused line fees paid on credit facilities should be capitalized and amortized rather than taken as a current deduction. We have filed a petition in the United States Tax Court and believe we have sufficient support for the technical merits of our positions and that it is more-likely-than-not that they will ultimately be sustained; therefore, a reserve for uncertain tax positions is not necessary. If we are unsuccessful in the United States Tax Court, we can appeal to the federal Circuit Court of Appeals. If judicial appeals prove unsuccessful, we may ultimately be required to pay the related deferred taxes, any potential interest, and penalties, possibly requiring additional financing from other sources. The deferred tax liability related to revenue recognition on our debt purchasing business is $190.1 million at December 31, 2012. On June 30, 2011, we were notified by the IRS that the audit period was expanded to include the tax years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. The statute of limitations for the 2010, 2009 and 2008 tax years has been extended to September 26, 2014.Changes in the United States tax laws regarding earnings of our subsidiaries located outside the United States could materially affect our future results.There have been proposals to change United States tax laws that would significantly impact how United States corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. We earn a portion of our income in foreign countries. Although we cannot predict whether or in what form any of these proposals might be enacted into law, if adopted they could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.22Table of ContentsFor financial reporting purposes, we utilize the interest method of revenue recognition for determining our income recognized on finance receivables, which is based on an analysis of projected cash flows that may prove to be less than anticipated and could lead to reductions in future revenues or the incurrence of allowance charges. We utilize the interest method to determine income recognized on finance receivables under the guidance of Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification 310-30, “Loans and Debt Securities Acquired with Deteriorated Credit Quality” (“ASC 310-30”). Under this method, static pools of receivables we acquire are modeled upon their projected cash flows. A yield is then established which, when applied to the unamortized purchase price of the receivables, results in the recognition of income at a constant yield relative to the remaining balance in the pool. Each static pool is analyzed regularly to assess the actual performance compared to that expected by the model. Significant increases in actual or projected future cash flows are recognized prospectively, through an upward adjustment of the yield, over a pool's estimated remaining life. If a valuation allowance had been previously recognized for that pool, the allowance is reversed before recording any prospective yield adjustments. Any increase to the yield then becomes the new benchmark for future impairment testing for the pool. Under ASC 310-30, rather than lowering the estimated yield for significant decreases in actual or projected future cash flows, an allowance charge is recorded to reduce the carrying value of a pool to maintain the then current yield and is shown as a reduction in revenues in the consolidated income statements with a corresponding valuation allowance offsetting finance receivables, net, on the consolidated balance sheets. As a result, if the accuracy of the modeling process deteriorates or there is a significant decline in anticipated future cash flows, we could incur reductions in future revenues resulting from additional allowance charges, which could reduce our profitability in a given period and negatively impact our stock price.Our loss contingency accruals may not be adequate to cover actual losses.We are involved in judicial, regulatory, and arbitration proceedings or investigations concerning matters arising from our business activities. Although we believe we have meritorious defenses in all material litigation pending against us, there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome. We establish accruals for potential liability arising from legal proceedings when it is probable that such liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. We may still incur legal costs for a matter even if we have not accrued a liability. In addition, actual losses may be higher than the amount accrued for a certain matter, or in the aggregate. An unfavorable resolution of a legal proceeding or claim could materially adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. For more information, refer to the “Litigation” section of Note 16 (Commitments and Contingencies).We may not be able to successfully anticipate, manage or adopt technological advances within our industry.Our business relies on computer and telecommunications technologies and our ability to integrate these technologies into our business is essential to our competitive position and our success. Computer and telecommunications technologies are evolving rapidly and are characterized by short product life cycles. We may not be successful in anticipating, managing or adopting technological changes on a timely basis, which could reduce our profitability or disrupt our operations and harm our business.While we believe that our existing information systems are sufficient to meet our current demands and continued expansion, our future growth may require additional investment in these systems. We depend on having the capital resources necessary to invest in new technologies to acquire and service defaulted consumer receivables. We cannot ensure that adequate capital resources will be available to us at the appropriate time.We rely on our systems, including our telecommunications and computers systems, and employees, and certain failures or disruptions could adversely affect the continuity of our business operations.We may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are not entirely within our control. Those events may include, for example, terrorist attacks, war and the outcome of war and threats of attacks; computer viruses; electrical or telecommunications outages; natural disasters; computer hacking attacks; malicious employee acts; other intentional destructive human acts; and disease pandemics. We could be subject to both private and public legal actions if consumer information stored in our systems is lost or misappropriated, as we are subject to extensive laws and regulations concerning the use and safeguarding of this information. Any or all of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and stock price.Additionally, our success depends in large part on sophisticated telecommunications and computer systems. The temporary or permanent loss of our computer and telecommunications equipment and software systems, through casualty or operating malfunction, could disrupt our operations. In the normal course of our business, we must record and process significant amounts of data quickly and accurately to access, maintain and expand the databases we use for our collection activities. Any failure of our information systems or software and our backup systems would interrupt our business operations and harm our business. Our headquarters are located in a region that is susceptible to hurricane damage, which may increase the risk of disruption of information systems and telephone service for sustained periods.23Table of ContentsFurther, our business depends heavily on services provided by various local and long distance telephone companies. A significant increase in telephone service costs or any significant interruption in telephone services could reduce our profitability or disrupt our operations and harm our business.The occurrence of cyber incidents, or a deficiency in our cyber-security, could negatively impact our business by causing a disruption in our operations, a compromise or corruption of our confidential information or damage to our Company's image, all of which could negatively impact our financial results. A cyber incident is considered to be any adverse event that threatens the confidentiality, integrity or availability of our information resources. More specifically, a cyber incident is an intentional event that can include gaining unauthorized access to systems to disrupt operations, corrupt data or steal confidential information. As our reliance on technology has increased, so have the risks posed to our systems, both internal and those we have outsourced. Our three primary risks that could directly result from the occurrence of a cyber incident are operational interruption, damage to our image, and private data exposure. We have implemented solutions, processes, and procedures to help mitigate this risk, but these measures, as well as our organization's increased awareness of our risk of a cyber incident, do not guarantee that our financial results will not be negatively impacted by such an incident.We serve markets that are highly competitive, and we may be unable to compete with businesses that may have greater resources than us.We face competition in the markets we serve from new and existing providers of outsourced receivables management services, including other purchasers of defaulted consumer receivables portfolios, contingent fee businesses and debt owners that manage their own defaulted consumer receivables rather than outsourcing them. The receivables management industry is highly fragmented and competitive, consisting of thousands of consumer and commercial agencies, most of which compete in the contingent fee business.We face bidding competition in our acquisition of defaulted consumer receivables and in our placement of fee based receivables, and we also compete on the basis of reputation, industry experience and performance. Some of our current competitors and possible new competitors may have substantially greater financial, personnel and other resources, greater adaptability to changing market needs, longer operating histories and more established relationships in our industry than we currently have. In the future, we may not have the resources or ability to compete successfully. As there are few significant barriers for entry to new providers of fee based receivables management services, there can be no assurance that additional competitors with greater resources than ours will not enter the market.We may not be able to manage our growth effectively.We have expanded significantly since our formation and we intend to maintain our focus on growth. However, our growth will place additional demands on our resources and we cannot ensure that we will be able to manage our growth effectively. In order to successfully manage our growth, we may need to:•expand and enhance our administrative infrastructure;•continue to improve our management, financial and information systems and controls; and•recruit, train, manage and retain our employees effectively.Continued growth could place a strain on our management, operations and financial resources. We cannot ensure that our infrastructure, facilities and personnel will be adequate to support our future operations or to effectively adapt to future growth. If we cannot manage our growth effectively, our results of operations may be adversely affected.The market price of our shares of common stock could fluctuate significantly.Wide fluctuations in the trading price or volume of our shares of common stock could be caused by many factors, including factors relating to our company or to investor perception of our company (including changes in financial estimates and recommendations by research analysts), but also factors relating to (or relating to investor perception of) the receivables management industry or the economy in general.Negative publicity or reputational attacks could damage our reputation.From time to time there are negative news stories about our industry or company, especially with respect to alleged conduct in collecting debt from customers. Negative public opinion about our alleged or actual debt collection practices or about the debt collection industry, including those expressed via television, newspapers, radio, or social media such as blogs, websites or newsletters, could adversely impact our stock price and our ability to retain and attract customers and employees.24Table of ContentsOur certificate of incorporation, by-laws and Delaware law contain provisions that may prevent or delay a change of control or that may otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders.Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that may make it more difficult, expensive or otherwise discourage a tender offer or a change in control or takeover attempt by a third-party, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders. The existence of these provisions may have a negative impact on the price of our common stock by discouraging third-party investors from purchasing our common stock. In particular, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws include provisions that: •classify our board of directors into three groups, each of which will serve for staggered three-year terms;•permit a majority of the stockholders to remove our directors only for cause;•permit our directors, and not our stockholders, to fill vacancies on our board of directors;•require stockholders to give us advance notice to nominate candidates for election to our board of directors or to make stockholder proposals at a stockholders’ meeting;•permit a special meeting of our stockholders to be called only by approval of a majority of the directors, the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer, the president or the written request of holders owning at least 30% of our common stock;•permit our board of directors to issue, without approval of our stockholders, preferred stock with such terms as our board of directors may determine;•permit the authorized number of directors to be changed only by a resolution of the board of directors; and•require the vote of the holders of a majority of our voting shares for stockholder amendments to our by-laws.In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which provides certain restrictions on business combinations between us and any party acquiring a 15% or greater interest in our voting stock other than in a transaction approved by our board of directors and, in certain cases, by our stockholders. These provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control, even if our stockholders support such proposals. Moreover, these provisions could diminish the opportunities for stockholders to participate in certain tender offers, including tender offers at prices above the then-current market value of our common stock, and may also inhibit increases in the trading price of our common stock that could result from takeover attempts or speculation.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None.