Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following are risks related to our business. A deterioration in the economic or inflationary environment in the United States may have an adverse effect on our collections, results of operations, revenue and stock price. Our performance may be affected by economic or inflationary conditions in the United States. If the United States economy deteriorates or if there is a significant rise in inflation, personal bankruptcy filings may increase, and the ability of consumers to pay their debts could be adversely affected. This may in turn adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, revenue and stock price. Deteriorating economic conditions could also adversely impact businesses and governmental entities to which we provide fee-based services, which could reduce our fee income and cash flow and thereby adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, revenue and stock price. Other factors associated with the economy that could influence our performance include the financial stability of the lenders on our line of credit, our access to credit, and financial factors affecting consumers. The financial turmoil which affected the banking system and financial markets in recent years has resulted in a tightening in credit markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the financial turmoil on our business, including a decrease in the value of our financial investments, the insolvency of lending institutions, including the lenders on our line of credit, resulting in our inability to obtain credit. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to purchase defaulted consumer receivables at appropriate prices, and a decrease in our ability to purchase portfolios of receivables could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue. If we are unable to purchase defaulted receivables from debt owners at appropriate prices, or one or more debt owners stop selling defaulted receivables to us, we could lose a potential source of income and our business may be harmed. The availability of receivables portfolios at prices which generate an appropriate return on our investment depends on a number of factors both within and outside of our control, including the following: • the continuation of high levels of consumer debt obligations; • sales of defaulted receivables portfolios by debt owners; and • competitive factors affecting potential purchasers and credit originators of receivables. 18 Table of Contents Moreover, there can be no assurance that our existing or potential clients will continue to outsource their defaulted consumer receivables at recent levels or at all, or that we will be able to continue to offer competitive bids for defaulted consumer receivables portfolios. If we are unable to develop and expand our business or adapt to changing market needs as well as our current or future competitors are able to do, we may experience reduced access to defaulted consumer receivables portfolios at appropriate prices and reduced profitability. Because of the length of time involved in collecting defaulted consumer receivables on acquired portfolios and the volatility in the timing of our collections, we may not be able to identify trends and make changes in our purchasing strategies in a timely manner. We may not be able to continually replace our defaulted consumer receivables with additional receivables portfolios sufficient to operate efficiently and profitably. To operate profitably, we must acquire and service a sufficient amount of defaulted consumer receivables to generate revenue that exceeds our expenses. Fixed costs such as salaries and lease or other facility costs constitute a significant portion of our overhead and, if we do not replace the defaulted consumer receivables portfolios we service with additional portfolios, we may have to reduce the number of our collection personnel. We would then have to rehire collection staff as we obtain additional defaulted consumer receivables portfolios. These practices could lead to: • low employee morale; • fewer experienced employees; • higher training costs; • disruptions in our operations; • loss of efficiency; and • excess costs associated with unused space in our facilities. Furthermore, heightened regulation of the credit card and consumer lending industry or changing credit origination strategies may result in decreased availability of credit to consumers, potentially leading to a future reduction in defaulted consumer receivables available for purchase from debt owners. We cannot predict how our ability to identify and purchase receivables and the quality of those receivables would be affected if there would be a shift in consumer lending practices, whether caused by changes in the regulations or accounting practices applicable to debt owners, a sustained economic downturn or otherwise. When documents are required to collect on an account, we rely on the seller to fulfill its contractual obligation, if applicable, to provide them in an accurate and timely fashion. For some of the accounts that we purchase, we may be unable to obtain these account documents, or the accounts documents that we obtain may contain errors. Our inability to obtain these documents from the seller may negatively impact the liquidation rate on such accounts that are subject to judicial collections, or that are located in states in which, by law, no collection activity may proceed without account documents. When we collect accounts judicially, courts in certain jurisdictions require that a copy of the account statements or applications be attached to the pleadings in order to obtain a judgment against the account debtors. If we are unable to produce accurate and authentic account documents, these courts will deny our claims. Additionally, our ability to collect non-judicially may be impacted by state laws which require that certain types of account documentation be in our possession prior to the institution of any collection activities. 19 Table of Contents We may not be able to collect sufficient amounts on our defaulted consumer receivables to fund our operations. Our business primarily consists of acquiring and liquidating receivables that consumers have failed to pay and that the credit originator has deemed uncollectible and has charged-off. The debt owners have typically made numerous attempts to recover on their defaulted consumer receivables, often using a combination of in-house recovery efforts and third-party collection agencies. These defaulted consumer receivables are difficult to collect and we may not collect a sufficient amount to cover our investment associated with purchasing the defaulted consumer receivables and the costs of running our business. We may not be successful at acquiring receivables of new asset types or in implementing a new pricing structure. We may pursue the acquisition of receivables portfolios of asset types in which we have little current experience. We may not be successful in completing any acquisitions of receivables of these asset types and our limited experience in these asset types may impair our ability to collect on these receivables. This may cause us to pay too much for these receivables and consequently, we may not generate a profit from these receivables portfolio acquisitions. Our collections may decrease if certain types of bankruptcy filings involving liquidations increase. Various economic trends and potential changes to existing legislation may contribute to an increase in the amount of personal bankruptcy filings. Under certain bankruptcy filings a debtor’s assets may be sold to repay creditors, but since the defaulted consumer receivables we service are generally unsecured we often would not be able to collect on those receivables. We cannot ensure that our collection experience would not decline with an increase in personal bankruptcy filings or a change in bankruptcy regulations or practices. If our actual collection experience with respect to a defaulted bankrupt consumer receivables portfolio is significantly lower than we projected when we purchased the portfolio, our financial condition and results of operations could deteriorate. Our ability to recover on portfolios of bankrupt consumer receivables may be impacted by changes in federal laws or changes in the administrative practices of the various bankruptcy courts. We recover on consumer receivables that have filed for bankruptcy protection under available U.S. bankruptcy laws. We recover on consumer receivables that have filed for bankruptcy protection after we acquired them, and we also purchase accounts that are currently in bankruptcy proceedings. Our ability to recover on portfolios of bankruptcy consumer receivables may be impacted by changes in federal laws or changes in administrative practices of the various bankruptcy courts. Our ability to recover and enforce our finance receivables may be limited under federal and state laws. The businesses conducted by the Company’s operating subsidiaries are subject to licensing and regulation by governmental and regulatory bodies in the many jurisdictions in which the Company operates and conducts its business. Federal and state laws may limit our ability to recover and enforce our defaulted consumer receivables regardless of any act or omission on our part. Some laws and regulations applicable to credit issuers may preclude us from collecting on defaulted consumer receivables we purchase if the credit issuer previously failed to comply with applicable laws in generating or servicing those receivables. Collection laws and regulations also directly apply to our business. Such laws and regulations are extensive and subject to change. Additional consumer protection and privacy protection laws may be enacted that would impose additional requirements on the enforcement of and collection on consumer credit receivables. Any new laws, rules or regulations that may be adopted, as well as existing consumer protection and privacy protection laws, may adversely affect our ability to collect on our defaulted consumer receivables and may harm our business. In addition, federal and state governmental bodies are considering, and may consider in the future, legislative proposals that would regulate the collection of our defaulted consumer receivables. Further, certain tax laws such as Internal Revenue Code Section 6050P (requiring 1099-C returns to be filed on discharge of indebtedness in excess of $600) could negatively impact our ability to collect or cause us to incur additional expenses. Although we cannot predict if or how any future legislation would impact our business, our failure to comply with any current or future laws or 20 Table of Contents regulations applicable to us could limit our ability to collect on our defaulted consumer receivables, which could reduce our profitability and harm our business. Failure to comply with government regulation of the collections industry could result in penalties, litigation, damage to our reputation or the suspension or termination of our ability to conduct our business. The collections industry is governed by various U.S. federal and state laws and regulations. Many states require us to be a licensed debt collector. The Federal Trade Commission has the authority to investigate consumer complaints against debt collection companies and to recommend enforcement actions and seek monetary penalties. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, such failure could result in the suspension, or termination of our ability to conduct collections which would materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and stock price. In addition, new federal and state laws or regulations or changes in the ways these rules or laws are interpreted or enforced could limit our activities in the future or significantly increase the cost of compliance. Changes in governmental laws and regulations could increase our costs and liabilities or impact our operations. Changes in laws and regulations or the manner in which they are interpreted or applied may alter our business environment. This could affect our results of operations or increase our liabilities. These negative impacts could result from changes in collection laws, laws related to credit reporting, consumer bankruptcy, accounting standards, taxation requirements, employment laws and communications laws, among others. For example, we know that both federal and state governments are currently reviewing existing law related to debt collection, in order to determine if any changes are needed. If we become subject to additional costs or liabilities in the future resulting from changes in laws and regulations, that could adversely effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may make acquisitions that prove unsuccessful or strain or divert our resources. We intend to consider acquisitions of other companies that could complement our business, including the acquisition of entities offering greater access and expertise in other asset types and markets that are related but that we do not currently serve. If we do acquire other businesses, we may not be able to successfully operate the acquired entity and/or integrate these businesses with our own and we may be unable to maintain our standards, controls and policies. Further, acquisitions may place additional constraints on our resources by diverting the attention of our management from other business concerns. Through acquisitions, we may enter markets in which we have no or limited experience. Moreover, any acquisition may result in a potentially dilutive issuance of equity securities or may result in the incurrence of additional debt and amortization expenses of related intangible assets, which could reduce our profitability and harm our business. The loss of IGS, RDS, MuniServices or CCB customers could negatively affect our operations. With respect to the acquisitions of IGS, RDS, MuniServices and CCB, a significant portion of the valuation was attributed to existing client and customer relationships. Our customers, in general, may terminate their relationship with us on 30-90 days’ prior notice. In the event a customer or customers terminate or significantly cut back any relationship with us, it could reduce our profitability and harm our business and could potentially give rise to an impairment charge related to an intangible asset specifically ascribed to existing client and customer relationships. Our senior management team is important to our continued success and the loss of one or more members of senior management could negatively affect our operations. The loss of the services of one or more of our key executive officers or key employees could disrupt our operations. We have employment agreements with Steve Fredrickson, our president, chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors, Kevin Stevenson, our executive vice president and chief financial and administrative officer, and most of our other senior executives. The current agreements contain non-compete provisions that survive termination of employment. However, these agreements do not and will not assure the continued services of these officers and we cannot ensure that the non-compete provisions will be enforceable. 21 Table of Contents Our success depends on the continued service and performance of our key executive officers, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to retain those individuals. Our work force could become unionized in the future, which could adversely affect the stability of our operations and increase our costs. Currently, none of our employees are represented by unions. However, our employees have the right at any time under the National Labor Relations Act to form or affiliate with a union. If some or all of our workforce were to become unionized and the terms of the collective bargaining agreement were significantly different from our current compensation arrangements, it could adversely affect the stability of our work force and increase our costs. We experience high employee turnover rates and we may not be able to hire and retain enough sufficiently trained employees to support our operations. The receivables management industry is very labor intensive and, similar to other companies in our industry, we typically experience a high rate of employee turnover. Our annual turnover rate in our collector workforce, excluding those employees that do not complete our multi-week training program was 39% in 2010. We compete for qualified personnel with companies in our industry and in other industries. Our growth requires that we continually hire and train new collectors. A higher turnover rate among our collectors will increase our recruiting and training costs and limit the number of experienced collection personnel available to service our defaulted consumer receivables. If this were to occur, we would not be able to service our defaulted consumer receivables effectively and this would reduce our ability to continue our growth and operate profitability. We may not be able to retain, renegotiate or replace our existing credit facility. Our credit facility includes an aggregate principal amount available of $407.5 million which consists of a $50 million fixed rate loan that matures on May 4, 2012, and a $357.5 million revolving facility that matures on December 20, 2014. The revolving facility will be automatically increased by $50 million upon maturity and repayment of the fixed rate loan. If we are unable to retain, renegotiate or replace such facility, our growth could be adversely affected, which could negatively impact our business operations and the price of our common stock. We may not be able to continue to satisfy the restrictive covenants in our debt agreements. All of our receivable portfolios are pledged to secure amounts owed to our lenders. Our debt agreements impose a number of restrictive covenants on how we operate our business. Failure to satisfy any one of these covenants could result in all or any of the following consequences, each of which could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to conduct business: • acceleration of outstanding indebtedness; • our inability to continue to purchase receivables needed to operate our business; or • our inability to secure alternative financing on favorable terms, if at all. Changes in interest rates could increase our interest expense and reduce our net income. Our future hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating our risks associated with changes in interest rates and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, as could our failure to comply with hedge accounting principles and interpretations. Our revolving credit facility bears interest at a variable rate as of December 31, 2010. Increases in interest rates could increase our interest expense which would, in turn, lower our earnings. From time to time, we may enter into hedging transactions to mitigate our interest rate risk on a portion of our credit facility. Our hedging strategies rely on assumptions and projections. If these assumptions and projections prove to be incorrect or our hedges do not adequately mitigate the impact of changes in interest rates, we may experience volatility in our earnings that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We had no interest rate hedge contracts at December 31, 2010. In addition, hedge accounting in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 815 “Derivatives and Hedging” requires the application of significant subjective judgments to a body of accounting concepts that is complex and for which the interpretations have continued to evolve within the accounting profession and among the standard-setting bodies. Our failure to comply with hedge accounting principles and interpretations in the future could result in the loss of the applicability of hedge accounting which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additional taxes levied on us could harm our financial results. Our tax filings are subject to audit by tax authorities in most jurisdictions in which we do business. These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes, adjustments to the timing of taxable income or deductions or allocations of income among tax jurisdictions. If any such challenges are made and are not resolved in our favor, they could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents We file income tax returns using the cost recovery method for tax revenue recognition as it relates to our debt purchasing business. We were notified on June 21, 2007 that we were being examined by the Internal Revenue Service for the 2005 calendar year. The IRS has concluded its audit and on March 19, 2009 issued Form 4549-A, Income Tax Examination Changes, for tax years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. The IRS has asserted that cost recovery for tax revenue recognition does not clearly reflect taxable income and that unused line fees paid on credit facilities should be capitalized and amortized rather than taken as a current deduction. On April 22, 2009, we filed a formal protest of the findings contained in the examination report prepared by the IRS. We believe we have sufficient support for the technical merits of our positions and that it is more-likely-than-not that these positions will ultimately be sustained; therefore, a reserve for uncertain tax positions is not necessary for these tax positions. If we are unsuccessful in our appeal, we may be required to further our efforts in United States Tax Court. Additionally if judicial appeals prove unsuccessful, we may ultimately be required to pay the related deferred taxes and any potential interest, possibly requiring additional financing from other sources. We utilize the interest method of revenue recognition for determining our income recognized on finance receivables, which is based on an analysis of projected cash flows that may prove to be less than anticipated and could lead to reductions in future revenues or the incurrence of valuation allowance charges. We utilize the interest method to determine income recognized on finance receivables under the guidance of Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification 310-30, “Loans and Debt Securities Acquired with Deteriorated Credit Quality” (“ASC 310-30”). Under this method, static pools of receivables we acquire are modeled upon their projected cash flows. A yield is then established which, when applied to the unamortized purchase price of the receivables, results in the recognition of income at a constant yield relative to the remaining balance in the pool. Each static pool is analyzed monthly to assess the actual performance compared to that expected by the model. Significant increases in actual or projected future cash flows are recognized prospectively, through an upward adjustment of the yield, over a pool’s estimated remaining life. Any increase to the yield then becomes the new benchmark for future impairment testing for the pool. Under ASC 310-30, rather than lowering the estimated yield for significant decreases in actual or projected future cash flows, a valuation allowance charge is recorded to reduce the carrying value of a pool to maintain the then current yield and is shown as a reduction in revenues in the consolidated income statements with a corresponding valuation allowance offsetting finance receivables, net, on the consolidated balance sheets. As a result, if the accuracy of the modeling process deteriorates or there is a significant decline in anticipated future cash flows, we could incur reductions in future revenues resulting from additional valuation allowance charges, which could reduce our profitability in a given period and negatively impact our stock price. Our operations could suffer from telecommunications or technology downtime or increased costs. Our success depends in large part on sophisticated telecommunications and computer systems. The temporary or permanent loss of our computer and telecommunications equipment and software systems, through casualty or operating malfunction, could disrupt our operations. In the normal course of our business, we must record and process significant amounts of data quickly and accurately to access, maintain and expand the databases we use for our collection activities. Any failure of our information systems or software and our backup systems would interrupt our business operations and harm our business. Our headquarters are located in a region that is susceptible to hurricane damage, which may increase the risk of disruption of information systems and telephone service for sustained periods. Further, our business depends heavily on services provided by various local and long distance telephone companies. A significant increase in telephone service costs or any significant interruption in telephone services could reduce our profitability or disrupt our operations and harm our business. We may not be able to successfully anticipate, manage or adopt technological advances within our industry. Our business relies on computer and telecommunications technologies and our ability to integrate these technologies into our business is essential to our competitive position and our success. Computer and telecommunications technologies are evolving rapidly and are characterized by short product life cycles. We 23 Table of Contents may not be successful in anticipating, managing or adopting technological changes on a timely basis, which could reduce our profitability or disrupt our operations and harm our business. While we believe that our existing information systems are sufficient to meet our current demands and continued expansion, our future growth may require additional investment in these systems. We depend on having the capital resources necessary to invest in new technologies to acquire and service defaulted consumer receivables. We cannot ensure that adequate capital resources will be available to us at the appropriate time. We rely on our systems and employees, and certain failures or disruptions could adversely affect the continuity of our business operations. We may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are not entirely within our control. Those events may include, for example, terrorist attacks, war and the outcome of war and threats of attacks; computer viruses; electrical or telecommunications outages; natural disasters; computer hacking attacks; malicious employee acts; other intentional destructive human acts; and disease pandemics. Any or all of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and stock price. We serve markets that are highly competitive, and we may be unable to compete with businesses that may have greater resources than we have. We face competition in the markets we serve from new and existing providers of outsourced receivables management services, including other purchasers of defaulted consumer receivables portfolios, third-party contingent fee collection agencies and debt owners that manage their own defaulted consumer receivables rather than outsourcing them. The receivables management industry is highly fragmented and competitive, consisting of thousands of consumer and commercial agencies, most of which compete in the contingent fee business. We face bidding competition in our acquisition of defaulted consumer receivables and in our placement of fee based receivables, and we also compete on the basis of reputation, industry experience and performance. Some of our current competitors and possible new competitors may have substantially greater financial, personnel and other resources, greater adaptability to changing market needs, longer operating histories and more established relationships in our industry than we currently have. In the future, we may not have the resources or ability to compete successfully. As there are few significant barriers for entry to new providers of fee based receivables management services, there can be no assurance that additional competitors with greater resources than ours will not enter the market. We may not be able to manage our growth effectively. We have expanded significantly since our formation and we intend to maintain our focus on growth. However, our growth will place additional demands on our resources and we cannot ensure that we will be able to manage our growth effectively. In order to successfully manage our growth, we may need to: • expand and enhance our administrative infrastructure; • continue to improve our management, financial and information systems and controls; and • recruit, train, manage and retain our employees effectively. Continued growth could place a strain on our management, operations and financial resources. We cannot ensure that our infrastructure, facilities and personnel will be adequate to support our future operations or to effectively adapt to future growth. If we cannot manage our growth effectively, our results of operations may be adversely affected. The market price of our shares of common stock could fluctuate significantly. Wide fluctuations in the trading price or volume of our shares of common stock could be caused by many factors, including factors relating to our company or to investor perception of our company (including changes in 24 Table of Contents financial estimates and recommendations by research analysts), but also factors relating to (or relating to investor perception of) the receivables management industry or the economy in general. Negative publicity or reputational attacks could damage our reputation. From time to time there are negative news stories about our industry or company, especially with respect to alleged conduct in collecting debt from customers. Negative public opinion about our alleged or actual debt collection practices or about the debt collection industry, especially that expressed via social media such as blogs, various websites or newsletters, generally could adversely impact our stock price and our ability to retain and attract customers and employees. Our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and Delaware law contain provisions that may prevent or delay a change of control or that may otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that may make it more difficult, expensive or otherwise discourage a tender offer or a change in control or takeover attempt by a third-party, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders. The existence of these provisions may have a negative impact on the price of our common stock by discouraging third-party investors from purchasing our common stock. In particular, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws include provisions that: • classify our board of directors into three groups, each of which will serve for staggered three-year terms; • permit a majority of the stockholders to remove our directors only for cause; • permit our directors, and not our stockholders, to fill vacancies on our board of directors; • require stockholders to give us advance notice to nominate candidates for election to our board of directors or to make stockholder proposals at a stockholders’ meeting; • permit a special meeting of our stockholders to be called only by approval of a majority of the directors, the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer, the president or the written request of holders owning at least 30% of our common stock; • permit our board of directors to issue, without approval of our stockholders, preferred stock with such terms as our board of directors may determine; • permit the authorized number of directors to be changed only by a resolution of the board of directors; and • require the vote of the holders of a majority of our voting shares for stockholder amendments to our by-laws. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which provides certain restrictions on business combinations between us and any party acquiring a 15% or greater interest in our voting stock other than in a transaction approved by our board of directors and, in certain cases, by our stockholders. These provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control, even if our stockholders support such proposals. Moreover, these provisions could diminish the opportunities for stockholders to participate in certain tender offers, including tender offers at prices above the then-current market value of our common stock, and may also inhibit increases in the trading price of our common stock that could result from takeover attempts or speculation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 25 Table of Contents 