ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks affecting Our Business: The nationwide recession may adversely affect our business by reducing real estate values in our trade area and stressing the ability of our customers to repay their loans. Our trade area, like the rest of the United States, is currently experiencing economic contraction. As a result, many companies have experienced reduced revenues and have laid off employees. These factors have stressed the ability of both commercial and consumer customers to repay their loans and may result in higher levels of non-accrual loans. In addition, real estate values have declined in our trade area. Since the majority of our loans are secured by real estate, declines in the market value of real estate impact the value of the collateral securing our loans, and could lead to greater losses in the event of defaults on loans secured by real estate. Our FDIC deposit insurance premiums have increased and may continue to increase, substantially increasing our non-interest expense. During 2008 and 2009, the FDIC has significantly increased its assessments for deposit insurance due to the weakness in the economy and the increased number of bank failures. In 2008, we paid $171 thousand in deposit insurance assessments and in 2009 this increased to $1.7 million, including a prepaid assessment of $1.2 million. During 2009, the FDIC announced increased assessments, that went into effect for the second quarter of 2009, raising insurance premiums for the healthiest banks by 7 basis points. In addition, the FDIC has required insured depository institutions like the Bank to pre-pay deposit insurance premiums for the next two and one-half years in 2009, and to increase deposit insurance assessments by three basis points in 2011. Banks that have opted to remain eligible for the FDIC’s increased insurance program for noninterest-bearing deposits must also pay an assessment of 10 basis points of the amount of noninterest-bearing deposits in excess of $250,000 through December 31, 2009, with a higher assessment beginning January 1, 2010 through to the scheduled end of the program, June 30, 2010. As a result of these increased assessments, we will face higher noninterest expense in future periods. Changes in interest rates can have an adverse effect on profitability. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, competition, and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the policies of the FRB. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and investment securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, including our securities portfolio, and (iii) the average duration of our interest-earning assets. This also includes the risk that interest-earning assets may be more responsive to changes in interest rates than interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa (repricing risk), the risk that the individual interest rates or rate indices underlying various interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities may not change in the same degree over a given time period (basis risk), and the risk of changing interest rate relationships across the spectrum of interest-earning asset and interest-bearing liability maturities (yield curve risk). 10 Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on our results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our earnings may not grow if we are unable to successfully attract core deposits and lending opportunities and exploit opportunities to generate fee-based income. Historically, the growth of our loans and deposits has been the principal factor in our increase in net interest income. In the event that we are unable to execute our business strategy of continued growth in loans and deposits, our earnings could be adversely impacted. Our ability to continue to grow depends, in part, upon our ability to expand our market share, to successfully attract core deposits and identify loan and investment opportunities, as well as opportunities to generate fee-based income. Our ability to manage growth successfully will also depend on whether we can continue to efficiently fund asset growth and maintain asset quality and cost controls, as well as on factors beyond our control, such as economic conditions and interest rate trends. Our business strategy could be adversely affected if we are not able to attract and retain skilled employees and manage our expenses. We expect to continue to experience growth in the scope of our operations and, correspondingly, in the number of our employees and customers. We may not be able to successfully manage our business as a result of the strain on our management and operations that may result from this growth. Our ability to manage this growth will depend upon our ability to continue to attract, hire and retain skilled employees. Our success will also depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational and other systems, to manage multiple, concurrent customer relationships and to hire, train and manage our employees. Our mortgage banking operations expose us to risks that are different from retail banking. The bank’s mortgage banking operations expose us to risks that are different from our retail banking operations. Our mortgage banking operations are dependent upon the level of demand for residential mortgages. During higher and rising interest rate environments, the level of refinancing activity tends to decline, which can lead to reduced volumes of business and lower revenues than currently recognized and that may not exceed our fixed costs to run the business. In addition, mortgages sold to third-party investors are typically subject to certain repurchase provisions related to borrower refinancing, defaults, fraud or other reasons stipulated in the applicable third-party investor agreements. If the fair value of a loan when repurchased is less than the fair value when sold, the bank may be required to charge such shortfall to earnings. Risks Related to the Banking Industry: Changes in local economic conditions could adversely affect our loan portfolio. Our success depends to a great extent upon the general economic conditions of the local markets that we serve. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services primarily to customers in our central and northern New Jersey trade area, so any decline in the economy of this specific region could have an adverse impact on us. Our loans, the ability of borrowers to repay these loans and the value of collateral securing these loans, are impacted by economic conditions. Our financial results, the credit quality of our existing loan portfolio, and the ability to generate new loans with acceptable yield and credit characteristics may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, including declines in real estate values, changes in interest rates, adverse employment conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government. We cannot assure you that continued negative trends or developments will not have a significant adverse effect on us. 11 There is a risk that we may not be repaid in a timely manner, or at all, for loans we make. The risk of non-payment (or deferred or delayed payment) of loans is inherent in banking. Such non-payment, or delayed or deferred payment of loans to the Company, if they occur, may have a material adverse effect on our earnings and overall financial condition. Additionally, in compliance with applicable banking laws and regulations, the Company maintains an allowance for loan losses created through charges against earnings. As of December 31, 2009, the Company’s allowance for loan losses was $3.1 million. The Company’s marketing focus on small to medium-size businesses may result in the assumption by the Company of certain lending risks that are different from or greater than those which would apply to loans made to larger companies. We seek to minimize our credit risk exposure through credit controls, which include evaluation of potential borrowers’ available collateral, liquidity and cash flow. However, there can be no assurance that such procedures will actually reduce loan losses. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and nonperformance. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect the results of our operations. Risks within the loan portfolio are analyzed on a continuous basis by management; and, periodically, by an independent loan review function and by the Audit Committee. A risk system, consisting of multiple-grading categories, is utilized as an analytical tool to assess risk and the appropriate level of loss reserves. Along with the risk system, management further evaluates risk characteristics of the loan portfolio under current economic conditions and considers such factors as the financial condition of the borrowers, past and expected loan loss experience and other factors management feels deserve recognition in establishing an adequate reserve. This risk assessment process is performed at least quarterly and as adjustments become necessary, they are realized in the periods in which they become known. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. State and federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for loan losses and have in the past required an increase in our allowance for loan losses. Although we believe that our allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover probable and reasonably estimated losses, we cannot assure you that we will not further increase the allowance for loan losses or that our regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could adversely affect our earnings. We are in competition with many other banks, including larger commercial banks which have greater resources than us. The banking industry within our trade area is highly competitive. The Company’s principal market area is also served by branch offices of large commercial banks and thrift institutions. In addition, in 1999 the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Financial Modernization Act of 1999 was passed into law. The Modernization Act permits other financial entities, such as insurance companies and securities firms, to acquire or form financial institutions, thereby further increasing competition. A number of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do to expend upon advertising and marketing, and their substantially greater capitalization enables them to make much larger loans. Our success depends a great deal upon our judgment that large and mid-size financial institutions do not adequately serve small businesses in our principal market area and upon our ability to compete favorably for such customers. In addition to competition from larger institutions, we also face competition for individuals and small businesses from recently-formed banks seeking to compete as “hometown” institutions. Most of these new institutions have focused their marketing efforts on the smaller end of the small business market we serve. 12 The laws that regulate our operations are designed for the protection of depositors and the public, but not our stockholders. The federal and state laws and regulations applicable to our operations give regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement responsibilities and generally have been promulgated to protect depositors and the deposit insurance funds and to foster economic growth and not for the purpose of protecting stockholders. These laws and regulations can materially affect our future business. Laws and regulations now affecting us may be changed at any time, and the interpretation of such laws and regulations by bank regulatory authorities is also subject to change. We can give no assurance that future changes in laws and regulations or changes in their interpretation will not adversely affect our business. We may be subject to higher operating costs as a result of government regulation. We are subject to extensive federal and state legislation, regulation and supervision which are intended primarily to protect depositors and the Federal Deposit Insurance Company's Deposit Insurance Fund, rather than investors. Legislative and regulatory changes may increase our costs of doing business; or, otherwise, adversely affect us and create competitive advantages for non-bank competitors. We cannot predict how changes in technology will impact our business. The financial services market, including banking services, is increasingly affected by advances in technology, including developments in: · telecommunications; · data processing; · automation; · Internet-based banking; · Telephone and text banking; and · debit cards and so-called "smart cards." Our ability to compete successfully in the future will depend on whether we can anticipate and respond to technological changes. To develop these and other new technologies, we will likely have to make additional capital investments. Although we continually invest in new technology, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources or access to the necessary proprietary technology to remain competitive in the future. The Company’s information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company’s customer-relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur; or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the Company’s information systems could damage the Company’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability; any of which could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved staff comments. 13 ITEM 