ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks affecting our business: Our pending merger with Lakeland may not occur. Compliance with the terms of the Merger Agreement in the interim could adversely affect our business, and if the merger does not occur, it could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and our stock price. Consummation of our merger with Lakeland is subject to a number of conditions, including shareholder and regulatory approval, many of which are not within our control. We can therefore offer you no assurance that the proposed merger will in fact be consummated. As a result of the pending merger: (i) the attention of management and employees may be diverted from day to day operations as they focus on matters relating to preparation for integrating the Company’s operations with those of Lakeland; (ii) the restrictions and limitations on the conduct of the Company’s business imposed by the merger agreement pending the merger may disrupt or otherwise adversely affect our business and our relationships with customers,; (iii) the Company’s ability to retain its existing employees may be adversely affected due to the uncertainties created by the merger; and (iv) the Company’s ability to establish new customer relationships may be adversely affected. Any delay in consummating the merger may exacerbate these issues. If the Merger is not consummated, our stock price will likely decline as our stock has recently traded at prices based on the proposed per share price for the merger. In addition, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely effected if (i) key employees have left the Company during the pendency of the merger, (ii) our relationships with our existing customers have been weakened due to the merger, (iii) we have failed to develop new customer relationships because of the pendency of the merger; and (iv) the termination of the Merger Agreement negatively effects market perception of our reputation. In addition, we will have incurred substantial expenses in negotiating and attempting to consummate the merger. These effects could also adversely affect our stock price. The recent nationwide recession has reduced real estate values in our trade area and may adversely affect our business by stressing the ability of our customers to repay their loans. Our trade area, like the rest of the United States, is currently experiencing weak economic conditions. As a result, many companies have experienced reduced revenues and have laid off employees. These factors have stressed the ability of both commercial and consumer customers to repay their loans and may result in higher levels of nonaccrual loans. In addition, real estate values have declined in our trade area. Since the majority of our loans are secured by real estate, declines in the market value of real estate impact the value of the collateral securing our loans, and could lead to greater losses in the event of defaults on loans secured by real estate. Changes in interest rates can have an adverse effect on profitability. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, competition, and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the policies of the FRB. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and investment securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, including our securities portfolio, and (iii) the average duration of our interest-earning assets. This also includes the risk that interest-earning assets may be more responsive to changes in interest rates than interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa (repricing risk), the risk that the individual interest rates or rate indices underlying various interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities may not change in the same degree over a given time period (basis risk), and the risk of changing interest rate relationships across the spectrum of interest-earning asset and interest-bearing liability maturities (yield curve risk). Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on our results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our earnings may not grow if we are unable to successfully attract core deposits and lending opportunities and exploit opportunities to generate fee-based income. Historically, the growth of our loans and deposits has been the principal factor in our increase in net interest income. In the event that we are unable to execute our business strategy of continued growth in loans and deposits, our earnings could be adversely impacted. Our ability to continue to grow depends, in part, upon our ability to expand our market share, to successfully attract core deposits and identify loan and investment opportunities, as well as opportunities to generate fee-based income. Our ability to manage 7 growth successfully will also depend on whether we can continue to efficiently fund asset growth and maintain asset quality and cost controls, as well as on factors beyond our control, such as economic conditions and interest rate trends. Our business strategy could be adversely affected if we are not able to attract and retain skilled employees and manage our expenses. Our ability to successfully implement business strategies, especially given the persistently poor economy and an increasingly onerous regulatory environment, will depend upon our ability to continue to attract, hire and retain skilled employees. Our success will also depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational and other systems, to manage multiple, concurrent customer relationships and to hire, train and manage our staff employees. Our mortgage banking operations expose us to risks that are different from community banking. The bank’s mortgage banking operations expose us to risks that are different from our retail banking operations. Our mortgage banking operations are dependent upon the level of demand for residential mortgages. During higher and rising interest rate environments, the level of refinancing activity tends to decline, which can lead to reduced volumes of business and lower revenues than currently recognized and that may not exceed our fixed costs to run the business. In addition, mortgages sold to third-party investors are typically subject to certain repurchase provisions related to borrower refinancing, defaults, fraud or other reasons stipulated in the applicable third-party investor agreements. If the fair value of a loan when repurchased is less than the fair value when sold, the bank may be required to charge such shortfall to earnings. In addition, Sullivan has made in the past, and may make in the future, residential mortgage loans that do not qualify as Qualified Mortgage Loans under the Dodd-Frank Act and the recently enacted CFPB regulations effective January 10, 2014. See “REGULATION OF SULLIVAN”. These loans may expose Sullivan and the Company to greater losses, or litigation related expenses and delays in taking title to collateral real estate, if these loans do not perform and borrowers challenge whether Sullivan satisfied the ability to repay rule on originating the loan. Hurricanes or other adverse weather events could negatively affect our local economies or disrupt our operations, which would have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Hurricanes and other weather events can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our properties and negatively affect the local economies in which we operate. In addition, these weather events may result in a decline in value or destruction of properties securing our loans and an increase in delinquencies, foreclosures and loan losses. Risks Related to the Banking Industry: Changes in local economic conditions could adversely affect our loan portfolio. Our success depends to a great extent upon the general economic conditions of the local markets that we serve. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services primarily to customers in our central and northern New Jersey trade area, so any decline in the economy of this specific region could have an adverse impact on us. Our loans, the ability of borrowers to repay these loans and the value of collateral securing these loans, are impacted by economic conditions. Our financial results, the credit quality of our existing loan portfolio, and the ability to generate new loans with acceptable yield and credit characteristics may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, including declines in real estate values, changes in interest rates, adverse employment conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government. We cannot assure you that negative trends or developments will not have a significant adverse effect on us. There is a risk that we may not be repaid in a timely manner, or at all, for loans we make. The risk of non-payment (or deferred or delayed payment) of loans is inherent in banking. Such non-payment, or delayed or deferred payment of loans to the Company, if they occur, may have a material adverse effect on our earnings and overall financial condition. Additionally, in compliance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and applicable banking laws and regulations, the Company maintains an allowance for loan losses created through charges against earnings. As of December 31, 2012, the Company’s allowance for loan losses was $3.2 million. The Company’s marketing focus on small to medium-sized businesses may result in the assumption by the Company of certain lending risks that are different from or greater than those which would apply to loans made to larger companies. We seek to minimize our credit risk exposure through credit controls, which include evaluation of potential borrowers’ available collateral, liquidity and cash flow. However, there can be no assurance that such procedures will actually reduce loan losses. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and nonperformance. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect the results of our operations. Risks within the loan portfolio are analyzed on a continuous basis by management; and, 8 periodically, by an independent loan review function and by the Audit Committee. A risk system, consisting of multiple-grading categories for each loan class, is utilized as an analytical tool to assess risk and the appropriate level of loss reserves. Along with the risk system, management further evaluates risk characteristics of the loan portfolio under current economic conditions and considers such factors as the financial condition of the borrowers, past and expected loan loss experience and other factors management feels deserve recognition in establishing an adequate reserve. This risk assessment process is performed at least quarterly and as adjustments become necessary, they are realized in the periods in which they become known. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. State and federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in our allowance for loan losses. Although we believe that our allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover probable and reasonably estimated losses, we cannot assure you that we will not further increase the allowance for loan losses or that our regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could adversely affect our earnings. We are in competition with many other banks, including larger commercial banks which have greater resources than us. The banking industry within our trade area is highly competitive. The Company’s principal market area is also served by branch offices of large commercial banks and thrift institutions. In addition, in 1999 the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Financial Modernization Act of 1999 was passed into law. The Financial Modernization Act permits other financial entities, such as insurance companies and securities firms, to acquire or form financial institutions, thereby further increasing competition. A number of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do to expend upon advertising and marketing, and their substantially greater capitalization enables them to make much larger loans. Our success depends a great deal upon our judgment that large and mid-size financial institutions do not adequately serve small businesses in our principal market area and upon our ability to compete favorably for such customers. The banking business is subject to significant government regulations, which are designed for the protection of depositors and the public, but not our stockholders. We are subject to extensive governmental supervision, regulation and control. These laws and regulations are subject to change, and may require substantial modifications to our operations or may cause us to incur substantial additional compliance costs. In addition, future legislation and government policy could adversely affect the commercial banking industry and our operations. Such governing laws can be anticipated to continue to be the subject of future modification. These laws and regulations are generally designed to protect depositors and the deposit insurance funds and to foster economic growth and not for the purpose of protecting stockholders. Our management cannot predict what effect any such future modifications will have on our operations. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act has and may result in substantial new compliance costs, and may restrict certain sources of revenue. The Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law on July 21, 2010. Generally, the Act is effective the day after it was signed into law, but different effective dates apply to specific sections of the law, many of which will not become effective until various Federal regulatory agencies have promulgated rules implementing the statutory provisions. Uncertainty remains as to the ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act, which could have a material adverse impact either on the financial services industry as a whole, or on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things: •Directs the Federal Reserve to issue rules which limit debit-card interchange fees; •Provides for an increase in the FDIC assessment for depository institutions with assets of $10 billion or more, increases in the minimum reserve ratio for the deposit insurance fund from 1.15% to 1.35% and changes the basis for determining FDIC premiums from deposits to assets less capital; •Permanently increases the deposit insurance coverage to $250,000 and allows depository institutions to pay interest on checking accounts; • Creates a new consumer financial protection bureau that has rulemaking authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that would apply to all banks and has broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws directly for large institutions; •Provides for new disclosure and other requirements relating to executive compensation and corporate governance; •Changes standards for Federal preemption of state laws related to federally chartered institutions and their subsidiaries; •Provides mortgage reform provisions regarding a customer’s ability to repay, restricting variable-rate lending by requiring the ability to repay to be determined for variable-rate loans by using the maximum rate that will apply during the first five years of a variable-rate loan term, and making more loans subject to provisions for higher cost loans, new disclosures, and certain other revisions; and •Creates a financial stability oversight council that will recommend to the Federal Reserve increasingly strict rules for capital, leverage, liquidity, risk management and other requirements as companies grow in size and complexity. 9 In addition, the Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision, the oversight body of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, adopted Basel III in September 2010, which constitutes a strengthened set of capital requirements for banking organizations in the United States and around the world. Basel III is currently the subject of notices of proposed rulemakings released in June of 2012 by the respective U.S. federal banking agencies. The comment period for these notices of proposed rulemakings ended on October 22, 2012. Basel III is intended to be implemented beginning January 1, 2013 and to be fully-phased in on a global basis on January 1, 2019. Basel III would require capital to be held in the form of tangible common equity, generally increase the required capital ratios, phase out certain kinds of intangibles treated as capital and certain types of instruments and change the risk weightings of assets used to determine required capital ratios. However, on November 9, 2012, the U.S. federal banking agencies announced that they do not expect that any of the proposed rules would become effective on January 1, 2013. They did not indicate the likely new effective date. These provisions, as well as any other aspects of current or proposed regulatory or legislative changes to laws applicable to the financial industry, may impact the profitability of our business activities and may change certain of our business practices, including the ability to offer new products, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans, and achieve satisfactory interest spreads, and could expose us to additional costs, including increased compliance costs. These changes also may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes to operations in order to comply, and could therefore also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our management is actively reviewing the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III, many of which are to be phased-in over the next several months and years, and assessing the probable impact on our operations. However, the ultimate effect of these changes on the financial services industry in general, and us in particular, is uncertain at this time. We cannot predict how changes in technology will impact our business. The financial services market, including banking services, is increasingly affected by advances in technology, including developments in: •telecommunications; •data processing; •automation; •internet-based banking, including fraud and computer virus protection; •consumer check capture; •social media; •telephone and mobile banking; and •debit cards and so-called “smart cards.” Our ability to compete successfully in the future will depend on whether we can anticipate and respond to technological changes. To develop these and other new technologies, we will likely have to make additional capital investments. Although we continually invest in new technology, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources or access to the necessary proprietary technology to remain competitive in the future. The Company’s information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company’s customer-relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur; or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the Company’s information systems could damage the Company’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability; any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, with the advent of new delivery channels in banking including, but not limited to, internet banking and mobile banking, the risk of financial fraud is increased. 10 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved staff comments. 