D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all other information contained in this annual report, before making any investment decision. Any of these risks and uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, financial condition and results of operations, which could in turn affect the price of Shares and ADSs. Risks Relating to our Industry Sales and profitability may fall as a result of downturns in the international price of oil and gas and other circumstances affecting the oil and gas industry. We are a global steel pipe manufacturer with a strong focus on manufacturing products and related services for the oil and gas industry. The oil and gas industry is a major consumer of steel pipe products worldwide, particularly for products manufactured under high quality standards and demanding specifications. Demand for steel pipe products from the oil and gas industry has historically been volatile and depends primarily upon the number of oil and natural gas wells being drilled, completed and reworked, and the depth and drilling conditions of these wells. The level of exploration, development and production activities of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and gas companies, including national oil companies, depends primarily on current and expected future prices of oil and natural gas and is sensitive to the industry’s view of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. Several factors, such as the supply and demand for oil and gas, and political and global economic conditions, affect these prices. When the price of oil and gas falls, oil and gas companies generally reduce spending on production and exploration activities and, accordingly, make fewer purchases of steel pipe products. Other circumstances – such as geopolitical events and hostilities in the Middle East and elsewhere – may also affect drilling activity and, as a result, cause steel pipe consumption to decline, and thus have a material impact on our revenues, profitability and financial condition. For example, a recession in the developed countries or a cooling of emerging market economies would likely result in reduced demand of our products, adversely affecting our revenues, profitability and financial condition. 4 Table of Contents Our industry is cyclical and fluctuations in industry inventory levels may adversely affect our sales and revenues. Inventory levels of steel pipe in the oil and gas industry can vary significantly from period to period and from region to region. These fluctuations can affect demand for our products. During periods of high demand, industry participants increase the production of pipe products and customers accumulate inventory. Conversely, during periods of low investment in drilling and other activities, customers draw from existing inventory. Particularly, when oil and gas prices fall, oil and gas companies are generally expected to hold or reduce purchases of additional steel pipe products. Competition in the global market for steel pipe products may cause us to lose market share and hurt our sales and profitability. The global market for steel pipe products is highly competitive, with the primary competitive factors being price, quality, service and technology. We compete in most markets outside North America primarily against a limited number of manufacturers of premium-quality steel pipe products. In the United States and Canada, we compete against a wide range of local and foreign producers. In recent years, substantial investments have been made, especially in China, to increase production capacity of seamless steel pipe products. New production capacity continues to be installed and there is significant excess production capacity, particularly for “commodity” or standard product grades. Capacity for the production of more specialized product grades is also increasing. In addition, there is an increased risk of unfairly-traded steel pipe imports in markets in which Tenaris produces and sells its products. The competitive environment, therefore, is expected to become more intense in the coming years and effective competitive differentiation will be a key success factor for Tenaris. We may not continue to compete effectively against existing or potential producers and preserve our current shares of geographic or product markets, and increased competition may have a material impact on the pricing of our products and services, which could in turn adversely affect our revenues, profitability and financial condition. See Item 4.B. “Information on the Company - Business overview - Competition”. Increases in the cost of raw materials, energy and other costs, limitations or disruptions to the supply of raw materials and energy, and price mismatches between raw materials and our products may hurt our profitability. The manufacture of seamless steel pipe products requires substantial amounts of steelmaking raw materials and energy; welded steel pipe products, in turn, are processed from steel coils and plates. The availability and pricing of a significant portion of the raw materials and energy we require are subject to supply and demand conditions, which can be volatile, and to government regulation, which can affect continuity of supply and prices. In addition, disruptions, restrictions or limited availability of energy resources in markets where we have significant operations could lead to higher costs of production and eventually to production cutbacks at our facilities in such markets. For example, shortages of energy and natural gas in Argentina and the resulting supply restrictions imposed by the government could affect operations at our facilities in Argentina. Similarly, in Mexico, existing constraints in natural gas transportation capacity have led to increased imports of liquefied natural gas, which, from April 1, 2013, resulted in increased natural gas transportation costs and, thus, higher steel pipe products production costs. See Item 3.D. “Key Information—Risks Factors—Risks Relating to our Business—Adverse economic or political conditions in the countries where we operate or sell our products and services may decrease our sales or disrupt our manufacturing operations, thereby adversely affecting our revenues, profitability and financial condition”. At any given time, we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of critical raw materials with price and other terms acceptable to us. The availability and prices of raw materials may also be negatively affected by new laws and regulations, including import controls, allocation by suppliers, interruptions in production, accidents or natural disasters, changes in exchange rates, worldwide price fluctuations, and the availability and cost of transportation. Moreover, we are dependent on a few suppliers for a significant portion of our requirements for steel coils at our welded pipe operations in North America and the loss of any of these suppliers could result in increased production costs, production cutbacks and reduced competitiveness at these operations. We may not be able to recover increased costs of raw materials and energy through increased selling prices on our products, and limited availability could force us to curtail production, which could adversely affect our sales and profitability. In addition, like other manufacturers of steel-related products, we have fixed and semi-fixed costs (e.g., labor and other operating and maintenance costs) that cannot adjust rapidly to fluctuations in product demand. If demand for our products falls significantly, these costs may adversely affect our profitability. Risks Relating to our Business Adverse economic or political conditions in the countries where we operate or sell our products and services may decrease our sales or disrupt our manufacturing operations, thereby adversely affecting our revenues, profitability and financial condition. We are exposed to economic and political conditions in the countries where we operate or sell our products and services. The economies of these countries are in different stages of social and economic development. Like other companies with worldwide operations, we are exposed to risks from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and inflation. We are also affected by governmental policies regarding spending and investment, exchange controls, regulatory and taxation changes, and other adverse political, economic or social developments of the countries in which we operate. 5 Table of Contents Significant portions of our operations are located in countries with a history of political volatility or instability. As a consequence, our business and operations have been, and could in the future be, affected from time to time to varying degrees by political, economic and social developments and changes in laws and regulations. These developments and changes may include, among others, the nationalization, expropriation or forced divestiture of assets; restrictions on production, imports and exports; interruptions in the supply of essential energy inputs; restrictions on the exchange or transfer of currency, repatriation of capital, or payment of dividends, debt principal or interest, or other contractual obligations; inflation; devaluation; war or other international conflicts; civil unrest and local security concerns, including high incidences of crime and violence involving drug trafficking organizations that threaten the safe operation of our facilities and operations; direct and indirect price controls; tax increases and changes in the interpretation, application or enforcement of tax laws and other retroactive tax claims or challenges; changes in laws, norms and regulations; cancellation of contract rights; and delays or denials of governmental approvals. Both the likelihood of such occurrences and their overall impact upon us vary greatly from country to country and are not predictable. Realization of these risks could have an adverse impact on the results of operations and financial condition of our subsidiaries located in the affected country. For example, approximately 8% of Tenaris’s consolidated net assets are located in Argentina and we derive approximately 20% of our revenues from that country, including sales to the domestic and export markets. Our business may be materially and adversely affected by economic, political, fiscal and regulatory developments in Argentina, including the following: • Our business and operations in Argentina may be adversely affected by inflation or by the measures that may be adopted by the government to address inflation. In particular, increases in services and labor costs could negatively affect our results of operations. In addition, an increased level of labor demands could trigger higher levels of labor conflicts, and eventually result in strikes or work stoppages. Any such disruption of operations could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial results. • Macroeconomic and political conditions in Argentina may adversely affect our business and operations. Increased state-intervention in the economy, along with the introduction of changes to government policies, could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial results. • The Argentine government has increased taxes on our operations in Argentina through several methods. If the Argentine government continues to increase the tax burden on our operations, our results of operation and financial condition could be adversely affected. • Restrictions on the supply of energy to our operations in Argentina could curtail our production and adversely affect our results of operations. There has been a lack of investment in natural gas and electricity supply and transport capacity in Argentina in recent years. Over the course of the last several years, demand for natural gas and electricity has increased substantially, driven by a recovery in economic conditions and low prices in comparison with alternative fuel sources. This in turn has resulted in shortages of natural gas and electricity to residential and industrial users during periods of high demand. For example, in recent years, our operations in Argentina experienced constraints in their electricity and natural gas supply requirements on many occasions. If demand for natural gas and electricity increases and a matching increase in natural gas and electricity supply and transport capacity fails to materialize on a timely basis, our production in Argentina (or that of our main customers and suppliers), could be curtailed, and our sales and revenues could decline. Although we have taken and are taking measures to limit the effect of supply restrictions on our operations in Argentina, such efforts might not be sufficient to avoid an adverse impact on our production in Argentina and we might not be able to similarly limit the effect of future supply restrictions. In addition, it is possible that we could also face increased costs when using alternative sources of energy. • In the past, the Argentine government and the Argentine Central Bank introduced several rules and regulations to reduce volatility in the U.S. Dollar/Argentine Pesos, or ARS, exchange rate, and implemented restrictions on capital inflows into Argentina and capital outflows from Argentina. Since 2001, Argentine subsidiaries are required to repatriate U.S. dollars collected in connection with exports from Argentina (including U.S. dollars obtained through advance payment and pre-financing facilities) into Argentina and convert them into ARS at the official floating exchange rate applicable on the date of repatriation. Since the last quarter of 2011, the Argentine government tightened its controls on transactions that would represent capital outflows from Argentina, prohibiting the purchase of foreign currency for saving purposes and limiting the ability of Argentine companies to transfer funds (including in connection with the payment of dividends or royalties) outside of Argentina. These existing controls, and any additional restrictions of this kind that may be imposed in the future, could expose us to the risk of losses arising from fluctuations in the exchange rate of the ARS or affect our ability to finance our investments and operations in Argentina, or impair our ability to convert and transfer outside Argentina funds generated by Argentine subsidiaries, for example, to pay dividends or royalties or other activities that require offshore payments. For additional information on current Argentine exchange controls and restrictions see Item 10.D. “Additional Information – Exchange Controls – Argentina”. • The Argentine government has imposed export taxes on certain activities, mainly in connection with commodities, gas and oil. If the Argentine government were to increase export taxes or impose export restrictions concerning our activities, our business and operations in Argentina could be adversely affected. 6 Table of Contents • The Argentine government has recently implemented import regulations. All payments on import of goods and services must be approved by the Argentine federal tax authority and other authorities, such as the Secretary of Commerce. The criteria followed to authorize or object to a transaction are not determined in the applicable regulations. Such import regulations could delay imports and as result, adversely affect our business, operations in Argentina. In addition, they could affect our exports from Argentina, considering that foreign countries may adopt and implement counter-measures. • Following the Argentine default in 2002, Argentina’s access to international capital markets has been limited and may continue to be limited in the future. A lack of financial alternatives could impair Argentina’s ability to sustain the economy’s activity level and foster economic growth. We currently have the following exposure to political and economic developments in Venezuela: • We have a significant share of the market for oil country tubular goods, or OCTG, products. We enjoy ongoing business relationships with Petróleos de Venezuela, or PDVSA, and the joint venture operators in the oil and gas sector. Since 2010, our sales in Venezuela have been negatively affected as PDVSA delayed payments to suppliers. While we maintain reserves for potential credit losses and analyze trade account receivables on a regular basis, our revenues, profitability and financial condition could be adversely affected by Venezuela’s political and economic environment. • In addition, we have: (i) a 70% interest in the share capital of Tavsa, Tubos de Acero de Venezuela S.A., or Tavsa, the sole producer of seamless steel pipe products in Venezuela, (ii) a 50.2% interest in Matesi Materiales Siderúrgicos S.A., or Matesi, an industrial facility that produces hot briquetted iron, or HBI, and (iii) a minority interest in Complejo Siderúrgico de Guayana, or Comsigua, another Venezuelan HBI producer. In 2009, Venezuela’s former President Hugo Chávez announced the nationalization of, among other companies, Tavsa, Matesi and Comsigua. In August, 2009, Venezuela, acting through the transition committee appointed by the Minister of Basic Industries and Mines of Venezuela, unilaterally assumed exclusive operational control over Matesi, and in November, 2009, Venezuela, acting through PDVSA Industrial S.A. (a subsidiary of Petroleos de Venezuela S.A.), formally assumed exclusive operational control over the assets of Tavsa. In 2010, Venezuela’s National Assembly declared Matesi’s assets to be of public and social interest and ordered the Executive Branch to take the necessary measures for the expropriation of such assets. In June 2011 former President Chavez issued Decree 8280/2011, which ordered the expropriation of Matesi’s assets as may be required for the implementation of a state-owned project for the production, sale and distribution of briquettes, and further instructed to commence negotiations and take any actions required for the acquisition of such assets. Our investments in these Venezuelan companies are protected under applicable bilateral investment treaties, including the bilateral investment treaty between Venezuela and the Belgian-Luxembourgish Union, and we continue to reserve all of our rights under contracts, investment treaties and Venezuelan and international law, and we have consented to the jurisdiction of the ICSID in connection with the nationalization process. In August 2011 and July 2012, respectively, Tenaris and its wholly-owned subsidiary Talta - Trading e Marketing Sociedad Unipessoal Lda, or Talta, initiated arbitration proceedings against Venezuela before the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes, or ICSID, in Washington D.C., pursuant to the bilateral investment treaties entered into by Venezuela with the Belgium-Luxembourg Economic Union and Portugal. In these proceedings, Tenaris and Talta seek adequate and effective compensation for the expropriation of their investments in Matesi, Tavsa and Comsigua. However, we can give no assurance that the Venezuelan government will agree to pay a fair and adequate compensation for our interests in Tavsa, Matesi and Comsigua, or that any such compensation will be freely convertible into or exchangeable for foreign currency. For more information on the nationalization of these Venezuelan companies, see note 31 “Nationalization of Venezuelan Subsidiaries” to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. Similarly, our Mexican operations could be affected by criminal violence, primarily due to the activities of drug cartels and related organized crime that Mexico has experienced and may continue to experience. Since 2011, organized criminal activity and violent incidents remained high and spread to new regions of the country. The city of Veracruz, where our facility is located, has experienced several incidents of violence. Although the Mexican government has implemented various security measures and has strengthened its military and police forces, drug-related crime continues to exist in Mexico. Our business may be materially and adversely affected by these activities, their possible escalation and the violence associated with them. If we do not successfully implement our business strategy, our ability to grow, our competitive position and our sales and profitability may suffer. We plan to continue implementing our business strategy of developing higher value products designed to serve and meet the needs of customers operating in demanding environments, developing and offering additional value-added services, which enable us to integrate our production activities with the customer’s supply chain, and continuing to pursue strategic investment opportunities. Any of these components of our overall business strategy could cost more than anticipated or may not be successfully implemented or could be delayed or abandoned. For example, we may fail to develop products that differentiate us from our competitors or fail to find suitable investment opportunities, including acquisition targets that enable us to continue to grow and improve our competitive position. Even if we successfully implement our business strategy, it may not yield the expected results. 7 Table of Contents We could be subject to regulatory risks associated with our international operations. The shipment of goods and services across international borders subjects us to extensive trade laws and regulations. Our import and export activities are governed by customs laws and regulations in each of the countries where we operate. Moreover, the European Union, or EU, the United States and other countries, control the import and export of certain goods and services and impose related import and export recordkeeping and reporting obligations. Those governments also may impose economic sanctions against certain countries, persons and other entities that may restrict or prohibit transactions involving such countries, persons and entities. Similarly, we are subject to the U.S. anti-boycott laws. These laws and regulations are complex and frequently changing, and they may be enacted, amended, enforced or interpreted in a manner that can materially impact our operations. Any failure to comply with these applicable legal and regulatory obligations also could result in criminal and civil penalties and sanctions. If we are unable to agree with our joint venture partner in Japan regarding the strategic direction of our joint operations, our operations in Japan may be adversely impacted. In 2000, we entered into a joint venture agreement with a term of 15 years with NKK Corporation, or NKK, to form NKKTubes. In September 2002, NKK and Kawasaki Steel, one of our main competitors, completed a business combination through which they became subsidiaries of JFE Holdings Inc., or JFE. JFE’s continued operation of the former Kawasaki Steel steel pipe business in competition with NKKTubes, or JFE’s potential lack of interest in the continued development of NKKTubes, could place NKKTubes at a disadvantage and adversely impact our operations in Japan. We are currently discussing the extension of the joint venture agreement, but we cannot guarantee a successful outcome in this negotiation. Future acquisitions, capital investments and strategic partnerships may not perform in accordance with expectations or may disrupt our operations and hurt our profits. One element of our business strategy is to identify and pursue growth-enhancing strategic opportunities. As part of that strategy, we regularly make significant capital investments and acquire interests in, or businesses of, various companies. For example, in January 2012, through our subsidiary Confab Industrial S.A., or Confab, we acquired a participation in Usinas Siderúrgicas de Minas Gerais S.A., or Usiminas, representing 5.0% of the shares with voting rights and 2.5% of the total share capital and in May 2012, we acquired all the remaining minority interests in Confab. In addition, in 2012, we decided to build a new seamless mill in Bay City, Texas, the United States. We will continue to consider strategic acquisitions, investments and partnerships from time to time. We must necessarily base any assessment of potential acquisitions and partnerships on assumptions with respect to operations, profitability and other matters that may subsequently prove to be incorrect. Our past or future acquisitions, significant investments and alliances may not perform in accordance with our expectations and could adversely affect our operations and profitability. In addition, new demands on our existing organization and personnel resulting from the integration of new acquisitions could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our operations and profitability. Moreover, we may also acquire, as part of future acquisitions, assets unrelated to our business, and we may not be able to integrate them or sell them under favorable terms and conditions. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if we must reassess our goodwill or other assets as a result of changes in assumptions underlying the carrying value of certain assets, particularly as a consequence of deteriorating market conditions. Assets that are subject to amortization are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Intangible assets with indefinite useful life, including goodwill, are subject to at least an annual impairment test. At December 31, 2012, we had $1,806.9 million in goodwill, which correspond mainly to the acquisition of Maverick Tube Corporation, or Maverick, in 2006 ($771.3 million in goodwill) and Hydril Company, or Hydril, in 2007 ($919.9 million in goodwill). As of December 31, 2012, an impairment test over our investment in Usiminas was performed and subsequently, the goodwill of such investment was written down by $73.7 million. The impairment was mainly due to expectations of a weaker industrial environment in Brazil, where industrial production and consequently steel demand have been suffering downward adjustments. In addition, a higher degree of uncertainty regarding the future prices of iron ore led to a reduction in the forecast of long term iron ore prices that affected cash flow expectations. As of December 31, 2012, following the impairment charge, our investment in associated companies in connection with our investment in Usiminas amounted to $346.9 million. For a discussion of the Usiminas impairment, see note 27 “Business combinations and other acquisitions – Acquisition of participation in Usiminas”. If our management were to determine in the future that the goodwill or other assets were impaired, particularly as a consequence of deteriorating market conditions, we would be required to recognize a non-cash charge to reduce the value of these assets, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by movements in exchange rates. As a global company we manufacture and sell products in a number of countries throughout the world and a portion of our business is carried out in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, which is the Company’s functional and presentation currency. As a result, we are exposed to foreign exchange rate risk. Changes in currency values and foreign exchange regulations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For information on our foreign exchange rate risk, please see Item 11. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk – Foreign Exchange Rate Risk”. 8 Table of Contents Related-party transactions with companies controlled by San Faustin may not be on terms as favorable as could be obtained from unrelated and unaffiliated third parties. A portion of our sales and purchases of goods and services are made to and from other companies controlled by San Faustin. These sales and purchases are primarily made in the ordinary course of business and we believe they are carried out on terms no less favorable than those we could obtain from unaffiliated third parties. We will continue to engage in related-party transactions in the future, and these transactions may not be on terms as favorable as could be obtained from unaffiliated third parties. For information concerning our principal transactions with related parties, see Item 7.B. “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions – Related Party Transactions”. If we do not comply with laws and regulations designed to combat governmental corruption in countries in which we sell our products, we could become subject to fines, penalties or other sanctions and our sales and profitability could suffer. We conduct business in certain countries known to experience governmental corruption. Although we are committed to conducting business in a legal and ethical manner in compliance with local and international statutory requirements and standards applicable to our business, there is a risk that our employees or representatives may take actions that violate applicable laws and regulations that generally prohibit the making of improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business, including laws relating to the 1997 OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA. The cost of complying with environmental regulations and potential environmental and product liabilities may increase our operating costs and negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We are subject to a wide range of local, provincial and national laws, regulations, permit requirements and decrees relating to the protection of human health and the environment, including laws and regulations relating to hazardous materials and radioactive materials and environmental protection governing air emissions, water discharges and waste management. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have become increasingly complex and more stringent and expensive to implement in recent years. Additionally, international environmental requirements vary. While standards in the EU, Canada, and Japan are generally comparable to U.S. standards, other nations, particularly developing nations, including China, have substantially lesser requirements that may give competitors in such nations a competitive advantage. It is possible that any international agreement to regulate emissions may provide exemptions and lesser standards for developing nations. In such case, we may be at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors having more or all of their production in such developing nations. Environmental laws and regulations may, in some cases, impose strict liability rendering a person liable for damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety without regard to negligence or fault. Some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. These laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others or for acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time they were performed. Compliance with applicable requirements and the adoption of new requirements could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The costs and ultimate impact of complying with environmental laws and regulations are not always clearly known or determinable since regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision. The expenditures necessary to remain in compliance with these laws and regulations, including site or other remediation costs, or costs incurred from potential environmental liabilities, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and profitability. While we incur and will continue to incur expenditures to comply with applicable laws and regulations, there always remains a risk that environmental incidents or accidents may occur that may negatively affect our reputation or our operations. Our oil and gas casing, tubing and line pipe products are sold primarily for use in oil and gas drilling, gathering, transportation, processing and power generation facilities, which are subject to inherent risks, including well failures, line pipe leaks, blowouts, bursts and fires, that could result in death, personal injury, property damage, environmental pollution or loss of production. Any of these hazards and risks can result in environmental liabilities, personal injury claims and property damage from the release of hydrocarbons. Similarly, defects in specialty tubing products could result in death, personal injury, property damage, environmental pollution, damage to equipment and facilities or loss of production. We normally warrant the oilfield products and specialty tubing products we sell or distribute in accordance with customer specifications, but as we pursue our business strategy of providing customers with additional supply chain services, we may be required to warrant that the goods we sell and services we provide are fit for their intended purpose. Actual or claimed defects in our products may give rise to claims against us for losses suffered by our customers and expose us to claims for damages. The insurance 9 Table of Contents we maintain may not be adequate or available to protect us in the event of a claim, its coverage may be limited, canceled or otherwise terminated, or the amount of our insurance may be less than the related impact on enterprise value after a loss. Similarly, our sales of tubes and components for the automobile industry subject us to potential product liability risks that could extend to being held liable for the costs of the recall of automobiles sold by car manufacturers and their distributors. Risks Relating to the Structure of the Company As a holding company, the Company’s ability to pay cash dividends depends on the results of operations and financial condition of its subsidiaries and could be restricted by legal, contractual or other limitations. The Company conducts its operations through subsidiaries. Dividends or other intercompany transfers of funds from those subsidiaries are the Company’s primary source of funds to pay its expenses, debt service and dividends and to repurchase Shares or ADSs. The ability of the Company’s subsidiaries to pay dividends and make other payments to us will depend on the results of operations and financial condition and could be restricted by applicable corporate and other laws and regulations, including those imposing foreign exchange controls or restrictions on the repatriation of capital or the making of dividend payments and agreements and commitments of such subsidiaries. If earnings and cash flows of the Company’s operating subsidiaries are substantially reduced, the Company may not be in a position to meet its operational needs or to pay dividends. For information concerning limitations on payments of dividends, see Item 3.D. “Key Information - Risks Factors - Risks Relating to our Business - Adverse economic or political conditions in the countries where we operate or sell our products and services may decrease our sales or disrupt our manufacturing operations, thereby adversely affecting our revenues, profitability and financial condition”. In addition, the Company’s ability to pay dividends to shareholders is subject to legal and other requirements and restrictions in effect at the holding company level. For example, the Company may only pay dividends out of net profits, retained earnings and distributable reserves and premiums, each as defined and calculated in accordance with Luxembourg law and regulations. See Item 8.A. “Financial Information – Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information – Dividend Policy”. The Company’s controlling shareholder may be able to take actions that do not reflect the will or best interests of other shareholders. As of March 31, 2013, San Faustin beneficially owned 60.45% of our Shares. Rocca & Partners Stichting Administratiekantoor Aandelen San Faustin, or RP STAK, controls a significant portion of the voting power of San Faustin and has the ability to influence matters affecting, or submitted to a vote of, the shareholders of San Faustin. As a result, RP STAK is indirectly able to elect a substantial majority of the members of the Company’s board of directors and has the power to determine the outcome of most actions requiring shareholder approval, including, subject to the requirements of Luxembourg law, the payment of dividends. The decisions of the controlling shareholder may not reflect the will or best interests of other shareholders. For example, the Company’s articles of association permit the Company’s board of directors to waive, limit or suppress preemptive rights in certain cases. Accordingly, the Company’s controlling shareholder may cause its board of directors to approve an issuance of Shares for consideration without preemptive rights, thereby diluting the minority interest in the Company. See Item 3.D. “Key Information – Risk Factors – Risks Relating to Shares and ADSs – Holders of Shares and ADSs in the United States may not be able to exercise preemptive rights in certain cases”. Risks Relating to Shares and ADSs In deciding whether to purchase, hold or sell Shares or ADSs, you may not have access to as much information about us as you would in the case of a U.S. company. There may be less publicly available information about us than is regularly published by or about U.S. issuers. Also, corporate and securities regulations governing Luxembourg companies may not be as extensive as those in effect in the United States, and Luxembourg law and regulations in respect of corporate governance matters might not be as protective of minority shareholders as state corporation laws in the United States. Furthermore, IFRS, the accounting standards in accordance with which we prepare our consolidated financial statements, differ in certain material aspects from U.S. GAAP. Holders of ADSs may not be able to exercise, or may encounter difficulties in the exercise of, certain rights afforded to shareholders. Certain shareholders’ rights under Luxembourg law, including the rights to participate and vote at general meetings of shareholders, to include items on the agenda for the general meetings of shareholders, to receive dividends and distributions, to bring actions, to examine our books and records and to exercise appraisal rights may not be available to holders of ADSs, or may be subject to restrictions and special procedures for their exercise, as holders of ADSs only have those rights that are expressly granted to them in the deposit agreement. Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as depositary under the ADS deposit agreement, or the Depositary, through its custodian agent, is the registered shareholder of the deposited Shares underlying the ADSs, and therefore only the Depositary can exercise the shareholders rights in connection with the deposited Shares. For example, if we make a distribution in the form of securities, the Depositary is allowed, 10 Table of Contents at its discretion, to sell that right to acquire those securities on your behalf and instead distribute the net proceeds to you. Also, under certain circumstances, such as our failure to provide the Depositary with properly completed voting instructions on a timely basis, you may not be able to vote at general meetings of shareholders by giving instructions to the Depositary. If the Depositary does not receive voting instructions from the holder of ADS by the prescribed deadline, or the instructions are not in proper form, then the Depositary shall deem such holder of ADS to have instructed the Depositary to vote the underlying Shares represented by ADSs in favor of any proposals or recommendations of the Company (including any recommendation by the Company to vote such underlying Shares on any given issue in accordance with the majority shareholder vote on that issue), for which purposes the Depositary shall issue a proxy to a person appointed by the Company to vote such underlying Shares represented by ADSs in favor of any proposals or recommendations of the Company. Under the ADS deposit agreement, no instruction shall be deemed given and no proxy shall be given with respect to any matter as to which the Company informs the Depositary that (i) it does not wish such proxy given, (ii) it has knowledge that substantial opposition exists with respect to the action to be taken at the meeting, or (iii) the matter materially and adversely affects the rights of the holders of ADSs. Holders of Shares and ADSs in the United States may not be able to exercise preemptive rights in certain cases. Pursuant to Luxembourg corporate law, existing shareholders of the Company are generally entitled to preferential subscription rights (preemptive rights) in the event of capital increases and issues of Shares against cash contributions. Under the Company’s articles of association, the board of directors has been authorized to waive, limit or suppress such preemptive subscription rights until May 12, 2017. The Company may, however, issue Shares without preemptive subscription rights only if (i) Shares (including without limitation, the direct issuance of Shares or upon the exercise of options, rights convertible into shares, or similar instruments convertible or exchangeable into Shares) are issued against a contribution other than in cash; (ii) Shares (including by way of free Shares or at discount), up to an amount of 1.5% of the issued shares capital of the Company, are issued to directors, officers, agents, employees of the Company, its direct or indirect subsidiaries or its affiliates (collectively, the “Beneficiaries”), for the purpose of compensation or incentive of the Beneficiaries or in relation thereto (which the board of directors shall be authorized to issue upon such terms and conditions as it deems fit), including without limitation, the direct issuance of Shares or upon the exercise of options, rights convertible into Shares or similar instruments convertible or exchangeable into Shares. Holders of ADSs in the United States may, in any event, not be able to exercise any preemptive rights, if granted, for Shares underlying their ADSs unless additional Shares and ADSs are registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, with respect to those rights, or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We intend to evaluate, at the time of any rights offering, the costs and potential liabilities associated with the exercise by holders of Shares and ADSs of the preemptive rights for Shares, and any other factors we consider appropriate at the time, and then to make a decision as to whether to register additional Shares. We may decide not to register any additional Shares, requiring a sale by the Depositary of the holders’ rights and a distribution of the proceeds thereof. Should the Depositary not be permitted or otherwise be unable to sell preemptive rights, the rights may be allowed to lapse with no consideration to be received by the holders of the ADSs. It may be difficult to enforce judgments against us in U.S. courts. The Company is a public limited liability company (société anonyme) organized under the laws of Luxembourg, and most of its assets are located outside the United States. Furthermore, most of the Company’s directors and officers named in this annual report reside outside the United States. As a result, investors may not be able to effect service of process within the United States upon us or our directors or officers or to enforce against us or them in U.S. courts judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities law. Likewise, it may be difficult for a U.S. investor to bring an original action in a Luxembourg court predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against the Company, directors and officers. There is also uncertainty with regard to the enforceability of original actions in courts outside the United States of civil liabilities predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws. Furthermore, the enforceability in courts outside the United States of judgments entered by U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities law will be subject to compliance with procedural requirements under applicable local law, including the condition that the judgment does not violate the public policy of the applicable jurisdiction. 