D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all other information contained in this annual report, before making any investment decision. Any of these risks and uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, financial condition and results of operations, which could in turn affect the price of Shares and ADSs. Risks Relating to our Industry Sales and profitability may fall as a result of downturns in the international price of oil and gas and other circumstances affecting the oil and gas industry. We are a global steel pipe manufacturer with a strong focus on manufacturing products and related services for the oil and gas industry. The oil and gas industry is a major consumer of steel pipe products worldwide, particularly for products manufactured under high quality standards and demanding specifications. Demand for steel pipe products from the oil and gas industry has historically been volatile and depends primarily upon the number of oil and natural gas wells being drilled, completed and reworked, and the depth and drilling conditions of these wells. The level of exploration, development and production activities of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and gas companies, including national oil companies, depends primarily on current and expected future prices of oil and 6 Table of Contents natural gas and is sensitive to the industry’s view of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. Several factors, such as the supply and demand for oil and gas, and political and global economic conditions, affect these prices. When the price of oil and gas falls, oil and gas companies generally reduce spending on production and exploration activities and, accordingly, make fewer purchases of steel pipe products. Other circumstances – such as geopolitical events and hostilities in the Middle East and elsewhere – may also affect drilling activity and, as a result, cause steel pipe consumption to decline, and thus have a material impact on our revenues, profitability and financial condition. The global economic downturn during 2008 and 2009 has adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely impact, our revenue, profitability and financial condition. The recent global financial and economic crisis, which started in September 2008 and lasted through much of 2009, and the slowdown in economic activity caused by the global recession, reduced worldwide demand for energy and resulted in a significant decline in oil and gas prices. This decrease in oil and gas prices, coupled with a shortage of liquidity and credit to fund the continuation and expansion of industrial business operations worldwide reduced the level of drilling, gathering, transportation and processing activities and caused many of our customers to reduce or delay their oil and gas exploration and production spending in 2009, which consequently reduced the demand for, and price of, our products and services. This had, and to some extent continues to have and may continue to have, a negative impact on our business, revenues, profitability and financial condition. We responded to the crisis and the fall in demand for our products by adjusting production levels and reducing working capital and structural costs. These measures helped us weather the crisis. Although demand, production levels and prices in certain segments and markets have recovered and stabilized to a certain degree, the extent, timing and duration of the recovery and potential return to pre-crisis levels remains uncertain. It is difficult to predict the duration or severity of the global economic downturn, or to what extent it will continue to affect us. A continued or renewed recession, or the public perception that a recession is continuing, or an unsustainable recovery and persistent weak economic conditions in any of our key markets could continue to depress demand for our products and adversely affect our business. Our industry is cyclical and fluctuations in industry inventory levels may adversely affect our sales and revenues. Inventory levels of steel pipe in the oil and gas industry can vary significantly from period to period and from region to region. These fluctuations can affect demand for our products. During periods of high demand, industry participants increase the production of pipe products and customers accumulate inventory. Conversely, during periods of low investment in drilling and other activities, customers draw from existing inventory. Particularly, when oil and gas prices fall, oil and gas companies are generally expected to hold or reduce purchases of additional steel pipe products. Demand for oil country tubular goods, or OCTG, has suffered a strong adjustment in 2009, as a result of the decline in oil and gas drilling activity and efforts to reduce inventories, particularly in North America. Similarly, sales in the Middle East and Africa in 2008 and 2009 were adversely affected by inventory adjustments following inventory build-ups in 2006 and the first half of 2007. Competition in the global market for steel pipe products may cause us to lose market share and hurt our sales and profitability. The global market for steel pipe products is highly competitive, with the primary competitive factors being price, quality, service and technology. We compete in most markets outside North America primarily against a limited number of manufacturers of premium-quality steel pipe products. In the United States and Canada, we compete against a wide range of local and foreign producers. Competition in markets worldwide has been increasing, particularly for products used in standard applications, as producers in countries like China and Russia have increased production capacity and entered export markets. In addition, some of these producers are improving the range, quality and technology of their pipes, thereby increasing their ability to compete with us. We may not continue to compete effectively against existing or potential producers and preserve our current shares of geographic or product markets, and increased competition may have a material impact on the pricing of our products and services, which could in turn adversely affect our revenues, profitability and financial condition. 7 Table of Contents Our sales of steel pipe products for pipeline projects are volatile and depend mainly on the implementation of major regional projects and on our ability to secure contracts to supply these projects. Our sales of pipes for pipeline projects depend to a large extent on the number of active pipeline projects under contract and their rate of progress, particularly in the South American regional market where we have our manufacturing facilities for these products. Future sales of these products depend to a large extent on our ability to secure contracts to supply major pipeline projects and their subsequent implementation. The implementation of such projects varies significantly from year to year. For example, our sales of pipes for pipelines projects were weak in 2006 as large projects in Brazil and Argentina were delayed; in 2007 and 2008, they increased as pipeline projects began to be implemented when average selling prices of pipes rose; in 2009, net sales of these products fell again, as many of the projects were concluded and the order backlog declined throughout the year. Accordingly, our pipeline project revenues and profitability may fluctuate significantly in future years depending on our success in securing large supply contracts and on other factors, including the cancellation or postponement of specific projects due to changes in governmental policies, the impact of the credit crisis on our customers’ ability to perform their payment obligations with us and any adverse economic, political or social developments in our major markets. Increases in the cost of raw materials, energy and other costs, limitations or disruptions to the supply of raw materials and energy; and price mismatches between raw materials and our products may hurt our profitability. The manufacture of seamless steel pipe products requires substantial amounts of steelmaking raw materials and energy; welded steel pipe products, in turn, are processed from steel coils and plates. The availability and pricing of a significant portion of the raw materials and energy we require are subject to supply and demand conditions, which can be volatile, and to government regulation, which can affect continuity of supply and prices. During the second half of 2008, the cost of raw materials used in our business fell steeply as the recessionary environment had an almost immediate impact on global steelmaking activity. The cost of raw materials stabilized during the first part of 2009 and started an upward trend in the second part of 2009, which continued in 2010. In addition, disruptions, restrictions or limited availability of energy resources in markets where we have significant operations could lead to higher costs of production and eventually to production cutbacks at our facilities in such markets. For example, shortages of energy and natural gas in Argentina and the resulting supply restrictions imposed by the government could affect operations at our facilities in Argentina. See “—Risks Relating to our Business—Adverse economic or political conditions in the countries where we operate or sell our products and services may decrease our sales or disrupt our manufacturing operations, thereby adversely affecting our revenues, profitability and financial condition”. At any given time, we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of critical raw materials with price and other terms acceptable to us. The availability and prices of raw materials may also be negatively affected by new laws and regulations, allocation by suppliers, interruptions in production, accidents or natural disasters, changes in exchange rates, worldwide price fluctuations, and the availability and cost of transportation. Moreover, we are dependent on a few suppliers for a significant portion of our requirements for steel coils at our welded pipe operations in North America and the loss of any of these suppliers could result in increased production costs, production cutbacks and reduced competitiveness at these operations. We may not be able to recover increased costs of raw materials and energy through increased prices on our products, and limited availability could force us to curtail production, which could adversely affect our sales and profitability. In addition, like other manufacturers of steel-related products, we have fixed and semi-fixed costs (e.g., labor and other operating and maintenance costs) that cannot adjust rapidly to fluctuations in product demand. If demand for our products falls significantly, these costs may adversely affect our profitability. Risks Relating to our Business Adverse economic or political conditions in the countries where we operate or sell our products and services may decrease our sales or disrupt our manufacturing operations, thereby adversely affecting our revenues, profitability and financial condition. We are exposed to economic and political conditions in the countries where we operate or sell our products and services. The economies of these countries are in different stages of social and economic development. Like other companies with worldwide operations, we are exposed to risks from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and inflation. We are also affected by governmental policies regarding spending and investment, 8 Table of Contents exchange controls, regulatory and taxation changes, and other adverse political, economic or social developments of the countries in which we operate. Significant portions of our operations are located in countries with a history of political volatility or instability, including Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Indonesia, Mexico and Romania. As a consequence, our business and operations have been, and could in the future be, affected from time to time to varying degrees by political developments, events, laws and regulations (such as nationalization, expropriation or forced divestiture of assets; restrictions on production, imports and exports; interruptions in the supply of essential energy inputs; exchange and/or transfer restrictions; inability to repatriate income or capital; inflation; devaluation; war or other international conflicts; civil unrest and local security concerns, including high incidences of crime and violence involving drug trafficking organizations, that threaten the safe operation of our facilities and operations; direct and indirect price controls; tax increases; changes in the interpretation or application of tax laws and other retroactive tax claims or challenges; changes in laws, norms and regulations; cancellation of contract rights; and delays or denials of governmental approvals). Both the likelihood of such occurrences and their overall impact upon us vary greatly from country to country and are not predictable. Realization of these risks could have an adverse impact on the results of operations and financial condition of our subsidiaries located in the affected country. For example, we have significant manufacturing operations and assets in Argentina and we derive a significant portion of our revenues from that country. Our business may be materially and adversely affected by economic, political, fiscal and regulatory developments in Argentina, including the following: • Argentina’s inflation indicators have been subject to changes in calculation and may not be consistent with the past or may not adequately reflect cost increases. Official inflation figures remain disputed by independent economists. Our business and operations in Argentina may be adversely affected by inflation or by the measures that might be adopted by the government to address inflation. • An increase of unemployment in Argentina may lead the government to impose restrictions to, or make more expensive, collective dismissals or suspension of labor contracts which would affect our ability to efficiently manage our business in response to an expected lower demand of our products and services. In addition, adverse economic conditions in the country, coupled with any plan we may adopt to reduce costs and production, could result in strikes or work stoppages at various facilities. Any such breakdown leading to work stoppage and disruption of operations could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial results. • The Argentine government has increased taxes on our operations in Argentina through several methods. If the Argentine government continues to increase the tax burden on our operations, our results of operation and financial condition could be adversely affected. • Restrictions on the supply of energy to our operations in Argentina could curtail our production and adversely affect our results of operations. There has been a lack of investment in natural gas and electricity supply and transport capacity in Argentina in recent years. Over the course of the last several years, demand for natural gas and electricity has increased substantially, driven by a recovery in economic conditions and low prices in comparison with alternative fuel sources. This in turn has resulted in shortages of natural gas and electricity to residential and industrial users during periods of high demand. For example, in recent years, our operations in Argentina experienced constraints in their electricity and natural gas supply requirements on many occasions. If demand for natural gas and electricity increases and a matching increase in natural gas and electricity supply and transport capacity fails to materialize on a timely basis, our production in Argentina (or that of our main customers and suppliers), could be curtailed, and our sales and revenues could decline. Although we are taking measures to limit the effect of supply restrictions on our operations in Argentina, such efforts might not be sufficient to avoid an adverse impact on our production in Argentina and we might not be able to similarly limit the effect of future supply restrictions. In addition, it is possible that we could also face increased costs when using alternative sources of energy. • The Argentine Central Bank has imposed restrictions on the transfer of funds outside of Argentina and other exchange controls in the past and may do so in the future, which could prevent us from paying dividends or other amounts from cash generated by our Argentine operations. We are currently required to 9 Table of Contents repatriate U.S. dollars collected in connection with exports from Argentina (including U.S. dollars obtained through advance payment and pre-financing facilities) into Argentina and convert them into Argentine pesos at the market-based floating exchange rate applicable on the date of repatriation. This requirement, and any similar requirement that may be imposed in the future, exposes us to the risk of losses arising from fluctuations in the exchange rate of the Argentine peso. For additional information on current Argentine exchange controls and restrictions see Item 10.D. “Additional Information – Exchange Controls”. • Argentina has adopted an administered flotation currency system and the Argentine Central Bank frequently intervenes in the exchange market to control free flotation of the Argentine peso. There is no certainty of long term success of such currency system. In addition, it is not clear whether the Argentine peso may further depreciate or appreciate against the U.S. dollar. These uncertainties may affect our business and operations in Argentina. • The Argentine government has imposed export restrictions and/or export taxes on certain activities, mainly in connection with commodities, gas and oil. Even though the Argentine government has not yet imposed any export restrictions concerning our activities, if any such restrictions were to be imposed, our business and operations in Argentina could be adversely affected. • In October 2008, the retirement and pension funds administrators (“AFJPs”), which were the largest institutional investors in the local capital market, were eliminated, thereby significantly reducing liquidity of the Argentine capital market. Similarly, we currently have significant exposure to political and economic developments in Venezuela, including the following: • We have a 70% interest in the share capital of Tavsa, Tubos de Acero de Venezuela S.A, or Tavsa, which owns a seamless steel pipe plant located within Sidor C.A.’s iron and steel manufacturing complex. The plant uses steel bars supplied by Sidor as its principal raw material, and is also dependent on Sidor for the supply of energy and other inputs. Additionally, in July 2004, together with Sidor, we acquired an industrial facility, Matesi Materiales Siderúrgicos S.A., or Matesi, in Ciudad Guayana, Venezuela, to produce hot briquetted iron, or HBI. We own 50.2% of Matesi and Sidor owns the remaining 49.8%. We also own a minority interest in Complejo Siderúrgico de Guayana, or Comsigua, another Venezuelan HBI producer. Within the framework of Decree Law 6058, on May 22, 2009, Venezuela’s President Hugo Chávez announced the nationalization of, among other companies, Tavsa, Matesi and Comsigua. On May 25, 2009, the Minister of Basic Industries and Mines of Venezuela, or MIBAM, issued official communications N°230/09 and 231/09, appointing the MIBAM’s representatives to the transition committees charged with overseeing the nationalization processes of Tavsa and Matesi. On May 29, 2009, we sent response letters to the MIBAM aknowledging the Venezuelan government’s decision to nationalize Tavsa and Matesi, appointing our representatives to the transition committees, and reserving all of our rights under contracts, investment treaties and Venezuelan and international law and the right to submit any controversy between us or our subsidiaries and Venezuela relating to Tavsa and Matesi’s nationalization to international arbitration, including arbitration administered by the International Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID). On July 14, 2009, President Chávez issued Decree 6796, which orders the acquisition of the Tavsa, Matesi and Comsigua’s assets and provides that Tavsa’s assets will be held by the Ministry of Energy and Oil, while Matesi and Comsigua’s assets will be held by MIBAM. Decree 6796 also requires the Venezuelan government to create certain committees at each of the companies; each transition committee must ensure the nationalization of each of them and the continuity of its operations, and each technical committee (to be composed of representatives of Venezuela and the private sector) must negotiate over a 60-day period (extendable by mutual agreement) a fair price for each company to be transferred to Venezuela. In the event the parties fail to reach agreement by the expiration of the 60-day period (or any extension thereof), the applicable Ministry will assume control and exclusive operation of the relevant entity, and the Executive Branch will order their expropriation in accordance with the Venezuelan Expropriation Law. Decree 6796 also specifies that all facts and activities thereunder are subject to Venezuelan law and any disputes relating thereto must be submitted to Venezuelan courts. On August 19, 2009, we announced that Venezuela, acting through the transition committee appointed by the MIBAM, 10 Table of Contents unilaterally assumed exclusive operational control over Matesi. On November 17, 2009, we announced that Venezuela acting through PDVSA Industrial S.A. (a subsidiary of Petroleos de Venezuela S.A.), formally assumed exclusive operational control over the assets of Tavsa. Following this formal change in operational control, PDVSA Industrial assumed complete responsibility over Tavsa’s operations and management and since then Tavsa’s operations are being managed by the transition committee previously appointed by Venezuela. Our representatives in Tavsa’s board of directors have ceased their functions. Our investments in these Venezuelan companies are protected under applicable bilateral investment treaties, including the bilateral investment treaty between Venezuela and the Belgian-Luxembourgish Union, and, as noted above, we continue to reserve all of our rights under contracts, investment treaties and Venezuelan and international law, and to consent to the jurisdiction of the ICSID in connection with the nationalization process. For more information on the nationalization of these Venezuelan companies, see note 32(b) “Processes in Venezuela-Nationalization of Venezuelan Subsidiaries” to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. • In addition to the above, if other political or economic measures, such as price controls or renegotiation or nullification of contracts were applied to companies incorporated in Venezuela, including Petróleos de Venezuela, or PDVSA, the state-owned oil company, our operations and revenues, and consequently our results, could be adversely affected. The Venezuelan government frequently intervenes in the Venezuelan economy and occasionally makes significant changes in policy. The Venezuelan government’s actions to control inflation and implement other policies have involved wage and price controls, currency devaluations, capital controls and limits on imports, among other things. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in policy involving tariffs, exchange controls and other matters such as currency devaluation, inflation, interest rates, taxation, industrial laws and regulations and other political or economic developments in or affecting Venezuela. If we do not successfully implement our business strategy, our ability to grow, our competitive position and our sales and profitability may suffer. We plan to continue implementing our business strategy of developing higher value products designed to serve and meet the needs of customers operating in demanding environments, developing and offering additional value-added services, which enable us to integrate our production activities with the customer’s supply chain, and continuing to pursue strategic investment opportunities. Any of these components of our overall business strategy could cost more than anticipated or may not be successfully implemented or could be delayed or abandoned. For example, we may fail to develop products that differentiate us from our competitors or fail to find suitable investment opportunities, including acquisition targets that enable us to continue to grow and improve our competitive position. Even if we successfully implement our business strategy, it may not yield the expected results. If we are unable to agree with our joint venture partner in Japan regarding the strategic direction of our joint operations, our operations in Japan may be adversely impacted. In 2000, we entered into a joint venture agreement with a term of 15 years with NKK Corporation, or NKK, to form NKKTubes. In September 2002, NKK and Kawasaki Steel, one of our main competitors, completed a business combination through which they became subsidiaries of JFE Holdings Inc., or JFE. JFE’s continued operation of the former Kawasaki Steel steel pipe business in competition with NKKTubes, or JFE’s potential lack of interest in the continued development of NKKTubes, could place NKKTubes at a disadvantage and adversely impact our operations in Japan. Future acquisitions and strategic partnerships may not perform in accordance with expectations or may disrupt our operations and hurt our profits. One element of our business strategy is to identify and pursue growth-enhancing strategic opportunities. As part of that strategy, we acquired interests in various companies during recent years. For example, in April 2009, we acquired a 77.45% holding in Seamless Pipe Indonesia Jaya, or SPIJ, an Indonesian OCTG processing business with heat treatment and premium connection threading facilities; in May 2007, we acquired Hydril Corporation, or 11 Table of Contents Hydril, a leading North American producer of premium connections and pressure control products for the oil and gas industry; and in October 2006, we acquired Maverick Tube Corporation, or Maverick, a leading North American producer of welded steel pipe products with operations in the United States, Canada and Colombia. We will continue to consider other strategic acquisitions and partnerships from time to time. We must necessarily base any assessment of potential acquisitions and partnerships on assumptions with respect to operations, profitability and other matters that may subsequently prove to be incorrect. Our SPIJ, Hydril and Maverick acquisitions, and other past or future acquisitions, significant investments and alliances may not perform in accordance with our expectations and could adversely affect our operations and profitability. In addition, new demands on our existing organization and personnel resulting from the integration of new acquisitions could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our operations and profitability. Moreover, we may also acquire, as part of future acquisitions, assets unrelated to our business, and we may not be able to integrate them or sell them under favorable terms and conditions. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if we must reassess our goodwill or other intangible assets as a result of changes in assumptions underlying the carrying value of certain assets, particularly as a consequence of deteriorating market conditions. As of December 31, 2009, we had $1,804.7 million in goodwill, which are exposed to impairment tests and correspond mainly to the acquisition of Maverick ($771.3 million) and Hydril ($919.9 million). In 2008, as a consequence of changes in market conditions, we recorded an impairment charge for $502.9 million (of which $394.3 million correspond to intangible assets originated from the acquisition of Maverick in 2006). No impairment charge was recorded in 2009. For more information on impairment tests and charges see Item 5 “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Critical Accounting Estimates – Impairment and recoverability of goodwill and other assets”. Management judgment is required to estimate discounted future cash flows and appropriate discount rates. Accordingly, actual cash flows and values could vary significantly from the forecasted future cash flows and related values derived using discounting techniques. Although we believe our estimates and projections are appropriate based on currently available information, the actual operating performance of an asset or group of assets which has been tested for impairment may be significantly different from current expectations. In such an event, the carrying value of goodwill, investments in associates and deferred taxes may be required to be reduced from amounts currently recorded. Any such reductions may materially affect asset values and results of operations and financial condition. No assurance can be given as to the absence of significant impairment charges in future periods, particularly if market conditions deteriorate further. Our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by movements in exchange rates. As a global company we manufacture and sell products in a number of countries throughout the world and a portion of our business is carried out in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, which is the Company’s functional and presentation currency. As a result, we are exposed to foreign exchange rate risk. Changes in currency values could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Related-party transactions with companies controlled by San Faustin may not be on terms as favorable as could be obtained from unrelated and unaffiliated third parties. A portion of our sales and purchases of goods and services are made to and from other companies controlled by San Faustin. These sales and purchases are primarily made in the ordinary course of business and we believe they are carried out on terms no less favorable than those we could obtain from unaffiliated third parties. We will continue to engage in related-party transactions in the future, and these transactions may not be on terms as favorable as could be obtained from unaffiliated third parties. For information concerning our principal transactions with related parties, see Item 7.B. “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions – Related Party Transactions”. 12 Table of Contents If we do not comply with laws and regulations designed to combat governmental corruption in countries in which we sell our products, we could become subject to fines, penalties or other sanctions and our sales and profitability could suffer. We conduct business in certain countries known to experience governmental corruption. Although we are committed to conducting business in a legal and ethical manner in compliance with local and international statutory requirements and standards applicable to our business, there is a risk that our employees or representatives may take actions that violate applicable laws and regulations that generally prohibit the making of improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business, including laws relating to the 1997 OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA. For a discussion of an ongoing review by the audit committee of the Company’s board of directors of certain matters related to these laws, see Item 8.A “Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information – Legal Proceedings –Ongoing investigation”. Violations of the foregoing laws could result in monetary or other penalties against us or our subsidiaries, including potential criminal sanctions, and could damage our reputation and, therefore, our ability to do business. The cost of complying with environmental regulations and potential environmental and product liabilities may increase our operating costs and negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We are subject to a wide range of local, provincial and national laws, regulations, permit requirements and decrees relating to the protection of human health and the environment, including laws and regulations relating to hazardous materials and radioactive materials and environmental protection governing air emissions, water discharges and waste management. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have become increasingly complex and more stringent and expensive to implement in recent years. International environmental requirements vary. While standards in the EU, Canada, and Japan are generally comparable to U.S. standards, other nations, particularly developing nations, including China, have substantially lesser requirements that may give competitors in such nations a competitive advantage. It is possible that any international agreement to regulate emissions may provide exemptions and lesser standards for developing nations. In such case, we may be at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors having more or all of their production in such developing nations. Environmental laws and regulations may, in some cases, impose strict liability rendering a person liable for damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety without regard to negligence or fault. Some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. These laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others or for acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time they were performed. Compliance with applicable requirements and the adoption of new requirements could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The ultimate impact of complying with environmental laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable since regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision. The expenditures necessary to remain in compliance with these laws and regulations, including site or other remediation costs, or costs incurred from potential environmental liabilities, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and profitability. While we incur and will continue to incur expenditures to comply with applicable laws and regulations, there always remains a risk that environmental incidents or accidents may occur that may negatively affect our reputation or our operations. Our oil and gas casing, tubing and line pipe products are sold primarily for use in oil and gas drilling, gathering, transportation, processing and power generation facilities, which are subject to inherent risks, including well failures, line pipe leaks, blowouts, bursts and fires, that could result in death, personal injury, property damage, environmental pollution or loss of production. Any of these hazards and risks can result in environmental liabilities, personal injury claims and property damage from the release of hydrocarbons. Similarly, defects in specialty tubing products could result in death, personal injury, property damage, environmental pollution, damage to equipment and facilities or loss of production. 13 Table of Contents We normally warrant the oilfield products and specialty tubing products we sell or distribute in accordance with customer specifications, but as we pursue our business strategy of providing customers with additional supply chain services, we may be required to warrant that the goods we sell and services we provide are fit for their intended purpose. Actual or claimed defects in our products may give rise to claims against us for losses suffered by our customers and expose us to claims for damages. The insurance we maintain may not be adequate or available to protect us in the event of a claim, its coverage may be limited, canceled or otherwise terminated, or the amount of our insurance may be less than the related impact on enterprise value after a loss. Similarly, our sales of tubes and components for the automobile industry subject us to potential product liability risks that could extend to being held liable for the costs of the recall of automobiles sold by car manufacturers and their distributors. Risks Relating to the Structure of the Company As a holding company, the Company’s ability to pay cash dividends depends on the results of operations and financial condition of its subsidiaries and could be restricted by legal, contractual or other limitations. The Company conducts its operations through subsidiaries. Dividends or other intercompany transfers of funds from those subsidiaries are the Company’s primary source of funds to pay its expenses, debt service and dividends and to repurchase Shares or ADSs. The ability of the Company’s subsidiaries to pay dividends and make other payments to us will depend on the results of operations and financial condition and could be restricted by applicable corporate and other laws and regulations, including those imposing exchange controls or transfer restrictions, and other agreements and commitments of such subsidiaries. If earnings and cash flows of the Company’s operating subsidiaries are substantially reduced, the Company may not be in a position to meet its operational needs or to pay dividends. In addition, the Company’s ability to pay dividends to shareholders is subject to legal and other requirements and restrictions in effect at the holding company level. For example, the Company may only pay dividends out of net profits, retained earnings and distributable reserves and premiums, each as defined and calculated in accordance with Luxembourg law and regulations. See Item 8.A. “Financial Information – Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information – Dividend Policy”. The Company’s tax-exempt status will terminate on December 31, 2010. If we are unable to mitigate the consequences of the termination of the preferential tax regime applicable to the Company, in the future we may be subject to a higher tax burden and holders of Shares or ADSs may be subject to tax withholdings. The Company was established as a société anonyme holding under Luxembourg’s 1929 holding company regime and the “billionaire” provisions relating thereto. 1929 holding companies are exempt from Luxembourg corporate income tax over income derived from low tax jurisdictions and withholding tax over dividends distributed to holders of Shares and ADSs. Following a decision by the European Commission, the Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg terminated its 1929 holding company regime, effective January 1, 2007. However, under the implementing legislation, pre-existing publicly-listed companies, including the Company, are entitled to continue benefiting from their current tax regime until December 31, 2010. If we are unable to mitigate the consequences of the termination of the preferential tax regime, in the future we may be subject to a higher tax burden and holders of Shares or ADSs may be subject to tax withholdings. The Company’s controlling shareholder may be able to take actions that do not reflect the will or best interests of other shareholders. As of May 31, 2010, San Faustin beneficially owned 60.4% of the Shares. Rocca & Partners controls a significant portion of the voting power of San Faustin and has the ability to influence matters affecting, or submitted to a vote of, the shareholders of San Faustin. As a result, Rocca & Partners is indirectly able to elect a substantial majority of the members of the Company’s board of directors and has the power to determine the outcome of most actions requiring shareholder approval, including, subject to the requirements of Luxembourg law, the payment of dividends. The decisions of the controlling shareholder may not reflect the will or best interests of other shareholders. For example, the Company’s articles of association permit the Company’s board of directors to waive, 14 Table of Contents limit or suppress preemptive rights in certain cases. Accordingly, the Company’s controlling shareholder may cause its board of directors to approve an issuance of Shares for consideration without preemptive rights, thereby diluting the minority interest in the Company. See Item 3.D. “– Risks Relating to Shares and ADSs – Holders of Shares and ADSs in the United States may not be able to exercise preemptive rights in certain cases”. Risks Relating to Shares and ADSs In deciding whether to purchase, hold or sell Shares or ADSs, you may not have access to as much information about us as you would in the case of a U.S. company. There may be less publicly available information about us than is regularly published by or about U.S. issuers. Also, Luxembourg corporate and securities regulations governing Luxembourg companies may not be as extensive as those in effect in the United States, and Luxembourg law and regulations in respect of corporate governance matters might not be as protective of minority shareholders as state corporation laws in the United States. Furthermore, IFRS, the accounting standards in accordance with which we prepare our consolidated financial statements, differ in certain material aspects from U.S. GAAP. Holders of ADSs may not be able to exercise, or may encounter difficulties in the exercise of, certain rights afforded to shareholders. Certain shareholders’ rights under Luxembourg law, including the right to vote, to receive dividends and distributions, to bring actions, to examine our books and records and to exercise appraisal rights may not be available to holders of ADSs, or may be subject to restrictions and special procedures for their exercise, as holders of ADSs only have those rights that are expressly granted to them in the deposit agreement. The Bank of New York Mellon, as depositary under the ADS deposit agreement, or the Depositary, through its custodian agent, is the registered shareholder of the deposited Shares underlying the ADSs, and therefore only the Depositary can exercise the shareholders rights in connection with the deposited Shares. For example, if we make a distribution in the form of securities, the Depositary is allowed, at its discretion, to sell that right to acquire those securities on your behalf and instead distribute the net proceeds to you. Also, under certain circumstances, such as our failure to provide the Depositary with voting materials on a timely basis, you may not be able to vote by giving instructions to the Depositary. If the Depositary does not receive voting instructions from the holder of ADS or the instructions are not in proper form, then the Depositary shall deem such holder of ADS to have instructed the Depositary to vote the underlying Shares represented by ADSs in favor of any proposals or recommendations of the Company, for which purposes the Depositary shall issue a proxy to a person appointed by the Company to vote such underlying Shares represented by ADSs in favor of any proposals or recommendations of the Company (including any recommendation by the Company to vote such underlying Shares on any given issue in accordance with the majority shareholder vote on that issue). No instruction shall be deemed given and no proxy shall be given with respect to any matter as to which the Company informs the Depositary that (i) it does not wish such proxy given, (ii) it has knowledge that substantial opposition exists with respect to the action to be taken at the meeting, or (iii) the matter materially and adversely affects the rights of the holders of ADSs. Holders of Shares and ADSs in the United States may not be able to exercise preemptive rights in certain cases. Pursuant to Luxembourg corporate law, existing shareholders of the Company are generally entitled to preemptive subscription rights in the event of capital increases and issues of Shares against cash contributions. Under the Company’s articles of association, the board of directors has been authorized to waive, limit or suppress such preemptive subscription rights until August 2, 2012. The Company may, however, issue Shares without preemptive rights only if the newly-issued Shares are issued for consideration other than cash, are issued as compensation to directors, officers, agents or employees of the Company or its affiliates, or are issued to satisfy conversion or option rights created to provide compensation to directors, officers, agents or employees of the Company, its subsidiaries or its affiliates. Holders of ADSs in the United States may, in any event, not be able to exercise any preemptive rights, if granted, for Shares underlying their ADSs unless additional Shares and ADSs are registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, with respect to those rights, or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We intend to evaluate, at the time of any rights offering, the costs and potential liabilities associated with the exercise by holders of Shares and ADSs of the preemptive rights for Shares, and any other factors we consider appropriate at the time, and then to make a decision as to 15 Table of Contents whether to register additional Shares. We may decide not to register any additional Share, requiring a sale by the Depositary of the holders’ rights and a distribution of the proceeds thereof. Should the Depositary not be permitted or otherwise be unable to sell preemptive rights, the rights may be allowed to lapse with no consideration to be received by the holders of the ADSs. It may be difficult to enforce judgments against us in U.S. courts. The Company is a corporation organized under the laws of Luxembourg, and most of its assets are located outside the United States. Furthermore, most of the Company’s directors and officers named in this annual report reside outside the United States. As a result, investors may not be able to effect service of process within the United States upon us or our directors or officers or to enforce against us or them in U.S. courts judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities law. Likewise, it may be difficult for a U.S. investor to bring an original action in a Luxembourg court predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against the Company, directors and officers. There is also uncertainty with regard to the enforceability of original actions in courts outside the United States of civil liabilities predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws. Furthermore, the enforceability in courts outside the United States of judgments entered by U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities law will be subject to compliance with procedural requirements under applicable local law, including the condition that the judgment does not violate the public policy of the applicable jurisdiction. 