Risk Factors—Risks related to our ADSs—Holders of our shares and ADSs in the United States may not be able to exercise preemptive rights in certain cases”. A current EU investigation could lead Luxembourg to change the tax rules applicable to 1929 holding companies and result in a higher tax burden on us in the future. We were established as a société anonyme holding under Luxembourg’s 1929 holding company regime. 1929 holding companies are exempt from certain business taxes on earnings and on payments. In the past, 1929 holdings were questioned by the EU as a “harmful tax practice”. As a result, in 2005 Luxembourg amended the holding company regime to eliminate the exemption with respect to income not previously subject to comparable tax. The new regime will not apply to pre-existing companies, including us, until 2011. On February 8, 2006, the European Commission launched a formal investigation into Luxembourg’s 1929 legislation exempting holdings and financial companies from corporate taxation. The new EU investigation seeks to determine whether the 1929 regime is contrary to the EC Treaty “state aid” rules. The EU investigation is directed against the Luxembourg government, not against the relevant holding companies. If an investigation finds the tax exemptions are a form of “state aid” in violation of EU law, the EU can demand that Luxembourg change the applicable tax rules, and any such change could in turn result in a higher tax burden on us in the future. Risks Relating to Specific Emerging Markets Negative economic, political and regulatory developments in certain emerging markets where we have a significant portion of our operations and assets, could hurt our financial condition, revenues and sales volume and disrupt our manufacturing operations, thereby adversely affecting our profitability and financial condition. Significant portions of our operations are located in politically volatile or unstable countries. As a consequence, our business and operations have been, and could in the future be, affected from time to time to varying degrees by 11 Table of Contents political developments, events, laws and regulations (such as forced divestiture of assets; restrictions on production, imports and exports; interruptions in the supply of essential energy inputs; exchange and/or transfer restrictions; inflation; devaluation; war or other international conflicts; civil unrest and local security concerns that threaten the safe operation of our facilities and operations; direct and indirect price controls; tax increases; changes in the interpretation or application of tax laws and other retroactive tax claims or challenges; expropriation of property; changes in laws, norms and regulations; cancellation of contract rights; delays or denials of government approvals; and environmental regulations). Both the likelihood of such occurrences and their overall impact upon us vary greatly from country to country and are not predictable. Realization of these risks could have an adverse impact on the results of operations and financial condition of our subsidiaries located in the affected country. Argentina We have significant manufacturing operations and assets in Argentina, where we produce approximately one-quarter of our seamless pipes. Our business may be materially and adversely affected by economic, political, fiscal and regulatory developments in Argentina. Economic and political instability resulted in a severe recession in 2002, which has had a lasting effect on Argentina’s economy. In 2001, a sustained period of economic contraction culminated in severe social, monetary and financial turmoil and the resignation of President Fernando de la Rúa on December 21, 2001, amid wide-spread and violent demonstrations. An interim administration adopted a series of emergency measures affecting Argentina’s monetary and fiscal policies, including the end of the decade-old peg of the Argentine peso to the U.S. dollar and obligatory unwinding of dollar-denominated contracts. As a result, the Argentine peso experienced significant devaluation in 2002. Presidential elections held April 2003 were eventually won by Nestor Kirchner with the smallest plurality on record. Since taking office, however, President Kirchner has enjoyed high levels of popular support and the economy has recovered to levels last attained in 1998, with growth of the country’s gross domestic product, or GDP, averaging 9% per annum in the three-year period from 2003 -2005. During 2005, the Argentine government restructured most of the country’s defaulted debt. As a result of the sustained economic growth, unemployment rates have dropped to 10.1% in 2005 from a peak of 24.1% in 2002. Furthermore, the Argentine economy continues to benefit strongly from high international commodity prices, low international interest rates and high levels of global liquidity. Despite the progress to date, several significant issues remain to be addressed by the government. Inflation increased significantly during 2005 to 12%, and the economy has been affected by supply constraints as capacity idled during the economic crisis has been utilized. Capital investment in general has lagged due to political uncertainties caused by the government’s increasing anti-business tone and its inclination to resort to price controls, nationalizations and other measures limiting the private conduct of business. Economic conditions in Argentina have deteriorated rapidly in the past and may deteriorate rapidly in the future. Should the current favorable conditions reverse, inflation become a problem or supply constraints hinder future growth, the Argentine economy may not continue to grow at current rates. Our business and operations in Argentina could be adversely affected by rapidly changing economic conditions in Argentina or by the Argentine government’s policy response to such conditions. Argentine government policies will likely have a significant impact on the economy and as a result, on our Argentine operations. The Argentine government has historically exercised significant influence over the local economy. In response to the December 2001 economic crisis, the Argentine government has promulgated numerous, far-reaching laws and regulations that affect the economy in significant respects. Laws and regulations currently governing the economy could change in the future, and any such changes could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results from operations. 12 Table of Contents The Argentine Central Bank has imposed restrictions on the transfer of funds outside of Argentina and other exchange controls in the past and may do so in the future, which could prevent us from paying dividends or other amounts from cash generated by our Argentine operations. In 2001 and 2002 and through February 7, 2003, the Argentine Central Bank restricted Argentine individuals and corporations from transferring U.S. dollars abroad without its prior approval. In 2003 and 2004, the government reduced some of these restrictions, including those requiring the Argentine Central Bank’s prior authorization for the transfer of funds abroad to pay principal and interest on debt obligations. Nevertheless, significant government controls and restrictions remain in place, and the Argentine government may impose new restrictions on foreign exchange in the future. On June 10, 2005, the Argentine government issued Decree No. 616/2005 establishing certain restrictions on capital inflows into Argentina. The existing controls and restrictions, and any additional restrictions of this kind that may be imposed in the future, could impair our ability to transfer funds generated by our Argentine operations in U.S. dollars outside Argentina to fund the payment of dividends or other amounts and to undertake investments and other activities that require payments in U.S. dollars. Furthermore, these restrictions could affect our ability to finance our investments and operations in Argentina. For additional information on current Argentine exchange controls and restrictions see Item 10.D. “Additional Information – Exchange Controls”. We are currently required to repatriate U.S. dollars collected in connection with exports from Argentina (including U.S. dollars obtained through advance payment and pre-financing facilities) into Argentina and convert them into Argentine pesos at the market-based floating exchange rate applicable on the date of repatriation. This requirement, and any similar requirement that may be imposed in the future, exposes us to the risk of losses arising from fluctuations in the exchange rate of the Argentine peso. Despite the results of the recent restructuring of its debt with private creditors, Argentina is limited in its ability to obtain financing in the future, which may restrict its ability to implement reforms and create the conditions for sustained economic growth and, as a result our subsidiaries in Argentina may be unable to obtain financing. In 2005, the Argentine government restructured its public debt with private creditors, with approximately 76% of its creditors surrendering their claims in exchange for new bonds worth approximately $0.35 on the dollar. However, at this time it is impossible to determine what effect the restructuring will have, if any, on investor confidence or on the Argentine economy generally. In addition, as a consequence of the restructuring Argentina will still have obligations outstanding with bondholders of approximately $54.8 billion (approximately $35.3 billion under the new bonds plus approximately $19.5 billion under the old bonds not tendered for exchange) and will have to withstand any legal actions that may be filed by bondholders who did not accept the Argentine government’s exchange offer. On January 4, 2006, the Argentine government prepaid all of its outstanding obligations to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), amounting to approximately $9.5 billion. This prepayment, together with Argentina’s limited access to foreign capital, could curtail its ability to access international credit markets. To date, Argentina has experienced difficulty and greater costs when accessing the international credit markets, given its past default, its failure to restructure the entire amount of its existing sovereign debt and in spite of the recovery of economic and financial conditions. If Argentina is not able to honor its outstanding financial agreements, or if it does not obtain the required financing to implement the economic and political reforms necessary to obtain sustainable development and GDP growth, the resulting economic environment could negatively affect our operating costs, sales and results of operations. In particular, to the extent our subsidiaries in Argentina are not able to maintain high levels of export, their ability to obtain financing could be limited. The Argentine government has increased taxes on our operations in Argentina, and could further increase the tax burden on our operations in Argentina. Since 1992, the Argentine government has not permitted the application of an inflation adjustment on the value of fixed assets for tax purposes. Since the substantial devaluation of the Argentine peso in 2002, the amounts that Argentine authorities permit us to deduct for as depreciation for our past investments in plant, property and equipment have been substantially reduced, resulting in a higher effective income tax charge. In addition, in 2002, the Argentine government imposed a 5% tax on the export of manufactured products. If the Argentine government continues to increase the tax burden on our operations in Argentina, our results of operation and financial condition could be adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents Restrictions on the supply of energy to our operations in Argentina could curtail our production and negatively impact our results of operations. As a result of several years of recession, the forced conversion into Argentine pesos at the one-to-one exchange rate and the subsequent freeze of gas and electricity tariffs, there has been a lack of investment in gas and electricity supply and transport capacity in Argentina in recent years. Over the course of the last several years, demand for electricity and natural gas has increased substantially, driven by a recovery in economic conditions and low prices in comparison with alternative fuel sources. The Argentine government is taking a number of measures to alleviate the short-term impact of supply restrictions on residential and industrial users, including measures designed to limit the growth of residential consumption, to increase the price of compressed natural gas and to import natural gas from Bolivia, electricity from Brazil and fuel oil from Venezuela. It has announced several measures intended to address the availability of energy supplies in the medium- and long-term, including allowing natural gas prices for industrial users to rise and implementing a tax increase on the export of crude oil and a new tax on the export of natural gas. In addition, the Argentine government has created a new state-owned energy company, which would in turn fund, or otherwise promote, investments in expanding pipeline capacity and building new pipelines and additional power generation capacity. If the measures that the Argentine government is taking to alleviate the short-term energy supply issue prove to be insufficient, or if the investment that is required to increase natural gas generation, energy production and transportation capacity and power generation capacity over the medium- and long-term fail to materialize on a timely basis, our production in Argentina (or that of our main suppliers) could be curtailed, and our sales and revenue could decline. Mexico We have significant manufacturing operations and assets in Mexico, where we produce approximately one-quarter of our seamless pipes, and a significant portion of our sales are made in Mexico. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by economic, political and regulatory developments in Mexico. Economic conditions and government policies in Mexico could negatively impact our business and results of operations. In the past, Mexico has experienced several periods of slow or negative economic growth, high inflation, high interest rates, currency devaluation and other economic problems. Furthermore, the Mexican national economy tends to reflect changes in the economic environment in the United States. If problems such as deterioration in Mexico’s economic conditions, social instability, political unrest, reduction in government spending or other adverse social developments reemerge in the future, they could lead to increased volatility in the foreign exchange and financial markets, and, depending on their severity and duration, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or prospects. For example, adverse economic conditions in Mexico could result in higher interest rates accompanied by reduced opportunities for refunding or refinancing, foreign exchange losses associated with dollar-denominated debt, increased raw materials and operating costs, reduced domestic consumption of our products, decreased operating results and delays in capital expenditures dependent on U.S. dollar purchases of equipment. Severe devaluation of the Mexican peso may also result in disruption of the international foreign exchange markets, hindering our ability to convert Mexican pesos into U.S. dollars and other currencies for the purpose of making purchases of raw materials or equipment. Political conditions in Mexico could materially and adversely affect Mexican economic policy and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. The Mexican political environment is in a period of change, and political uncertainty could adversely affect economic conditions in Mexico or our financial condition and results of operations. In July 2000, Vicente Fox, a 14 Table of Contents member of the National Action Party (Partido Acción Nacional, or PAN), the oldest opposition party in the country, won the presidential election. He took office on December 1, 2000, ending 71 years of rule by the Institutional Revolutionary Party (Partido Revolucionario Institucional, or PRI). Currently, no party has a working majority in either house of the Mexican Congress, which has made governance and the passage of legislation more difficult. National elections are scheduled to occur on July 2, 2006. Following these elections, there could be, as in the past, significant changes in laws, public policies and regulations that could adversely affect Mexico’s political and economic situation, and, as a result, could possibly adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or prospects. Mexican government policies will likely significantly affect the economy and as a result, our Mexican operations. Future actions of the Mexican government or the effect in Mexico of international events could adversely affect our results and financial condition. The Mexican government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the Mexican economy. Mexican government actions concerning the economy could have adverse effects on private sector entities in general and on us in particular. Economic plans of the Mexican government in the past have not always fully achieved their objectives. Beginning in 1994, and continuing through 1995, Mexico experienced an economic crisis characterized by exchange rate instability, a devaluation of the Mexican peso, high inflation, high domestic interest rates, economic contraction, a reduction of international capital flows, reduced consumer purchasing power and high unemployment. In response to the economic crisis, the Mexican government implemented broad economic reform programs, which improved economic conditions until growth declined again in 2001, accompanied by increased inflation rates in 2000, 2001 and 2002. It is not possible to determine what effect existing or future government economic plans or their implementation could have on the Mexican economy or on our financial condition or results of operations. The Mexican government owns Pemex, our largest customer, and authorizes its budget for exploration. Policies of the Mexican government regarding Pemex may negatively affect its demand for our seamless tubes. Pemex, our single largest customer, accounted for 8% of our annual sales during 2005; historically, it has accounted for an even higher proportion of our sales. Pemex is owned by the Mexican government. The Mexican government controls Pemex’s operations and its annual budget is subject to approval by the Mexican Congress. The Mexican government exercises significant influence over Pemex’s commercial affairs, including its exploration and production budget, which largely determines the volume of Pemex’s purchases of our seamless steel pipe products. The Mexican government also taxes Pemex and its subsidiaries heavily. In the future, the Mexican government may reduce Pemex’s exploration and production budget, increase its taxes or otherwise exercise its control in a manner that would reduce its ability to purchase products from us. Because Pemex is our largest customer, reductions in its purchases could adversely affect our sales, financial condition and results of operations. Brazil We have significant manufacturing operations and assets in Brazil. Our business could be adversely affected by economic, political and regulatory developments in Brazil. The Brazilian government frequently intervenes in the Brazilian economy and occasionally makes substantial changes in policy, as often occurs in other emerging economies. The Brazilian government’s actions to control inflation and carry out other policies have in the past involved wage and price controls, currency devaluations, capital controls and limits on imports, among other things. In addition, environmental regulations in Brazil have become stricter in recent years. As a result, it is possible that greater regulation or more aggressive enforcement of existing regulations could adversely affect us by imposing restrictions on our customer’s projects by creating new requirements for the issuance or renewal of environmental licenses, raising costs or requiring our customers to engage in expensive reclamation efforts. Furthermore, difficulties in obtaining new environmental licenses may lead to construction delays or cost increases, and in some cases, may lead our customers to abandon projects. 15 Table of Contents Romania Our operations in Romania have increased in relative importance to our overall operations through our acquisitions of Silcotub and Donasid in 2004 and 2005, respectively. Our business could be adversely affected by economic, political and regulatory developments in Romania. Romania is still in the process of transition from a centrally planned economy to a market-based economy and is subject to significant macroeconomic risks as a result. The government of Romania is in the process of privatizing selected state-owned companies, which may lead to significant corporate restructuring, labor dislocation or social unrest. Due to an immature legal framework, it may be difficult for us to enforce any rights we may have or to know if we are in compliance with all applicable laws, rules and regulations. Changes in laws, regulations or governmental policies affecting our business activities, or the interpretation thereof may increase our costs or restrict our ability to operate our business. Political, economic, social or other developments in Romania, including the imposition of price controls and new taxes, may cause us to change the way we conduct our business or force us to discontinue our operations altogether. Romania has historically experienced substantial, and occasionally, high rates of inflation and high interest rates. Low or negative economic growth rates, inflation and volatility in interest rates have had and may continue to have negative effects on the economy, which in turn may have adverse effects on our financial results. The Romanian currency, the New Lei, has experienced significant devaluation in the past, and may do so again in the future. Therefore, we are exposed to exchange rate risk. Significant changes in the exchange rates, whether in the short-term or over a steady long-term period, could have an adverse effect on our operating results or our financial condition. Romania is currently negotiating to enter the European Union. As a consequence, it is foreseeable that the euro will take prominence in Romania in the future. Consequently, depending on the result of the progression of Romania towards the euro, exchange rate fluctuations may have a more significant impact on our results of operations in the future. Venezuela We have significant exposure to Venezuela, where we have seamless tube operations at Tubos de Acero de Venezuela S.A., or Tavsa, an HBI plant, Matesi, and a significant equity investment in Ternium S.A., or Ternium, which has substantial operations in Venezuela. Our business could be adversely affected by economic, political and regulatory developments in Venezuela. In the past several years, Venezuela has experienced intense political and social turmoil involving groups that oppose and those that support the Chávez administration. Between December 2001 and February 2003, opposition groups have staged four nationwide strikes, the most recent of which began in 2002 and at times halted a substantial part of the operations of the Venezuelan oil industry before it ended in February 2003. The strikes were accompanied by increased capital drain, loss of bank deposits and reduced tax revenues. Although the political scene remains divided, the Chávez administration, through coalitions with other political parties, effectively controls a majority in the Asamblea Nacional, or the National Assembly, as well as most state governments, and has broad support among the poorer segments of Venezuelan society. Despite efforts to organize political opposition against his administration, President Chávez is expected to serve the remainder of his current presidential term, which ends in 2006. If significant domestic instability in Venezuela reemerges and affects political and economic conditions in Venezuela, our business in Venezuela and, consequently, our financial results could be negatively affected. The Venezuelan government traditionally has played a central role in the development of Venezuela’s steel industry and has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over many other aspects of the Venezuelan economy. Venezuelan governmental actions have had in the past, and could have in the future, significant effects on the financial condition and results of operations of Venezuelan companies and on the ability of Venezuelan companies to make capital expenditures. For example, the Venezuelan government has sought to pressure foreign oil companies to either partner with state-run Petróleos de Venezuela, increase royalties to the government and cede operational control of oilfields or leave the country by December 31, 2005. In addition, the Venezuelan government has pressured foreign oil companies to apply, on a retroactive basis, a new standard for determining income tax that differs from previously applicable regulation. The Venezuelan government has also canceled mining concessions 16 Table of Contents and has proposed that a state-run mining corporation administer mining operations. Accordingly, if political or economic measures such as expropriation, nationalization, renegotiation or nullification of contracts (like those for the supply of raw materials or energy), or currency, fiscal or transfer restrictions were implemented on our subsidiaries in Venezuela, their operations and revenues, and consequently our financial results, could be adversely affected. In addition, the Venezuelan government frequently intervenes in the Venezuelan economy and occasionally makes significant changes in policy. Recently the government’s actions to control inflation and implement other policies have involved wage and price controls, currency devaluations, capital controls and limits on imports, among other things. In addition, in February 2003, the Venezuelan government suspended the trading of foreign currencies and adopted a series of exchange regulations that established a strict exchange control regime. See Item 10.D. “Additional Information – Exchange Controls”. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in policy involving tariffs, exchange controls and other matters such as currency devaluation, inflation, interest rates, taxation, industrial laws and regulations and other political or economic developments in or affecting Venezuela. Several measures imposed by the Venezuelan government, such as exchange controls and transfer restrictions, have affected and may further affect the operations of our subsidiaries in Venezuela and could prevent them from paying dividends or other amounts from cash generated by our Venezuelan operations. Risks Relating to the Company’s Shares and ADSs The trading price of our shares and ADSs may suffer as a result of developments in emerging markets in general, not just the emerging markets where we have assets and operations Although the Company is organized as a Luxembourg corporation, a substantial portion of our assets and operations are located in Latin America. Financial and securities markets for companies with substantial asset and operational exposure to emerging markets are, to varying degrees, influenced by economic, market conditions and developments in general in other emerging market countries where they are not present. Although economic conditions are different in each country, investor reaction to developments in one country can have significant effects on the securities of issuers with assets or operations in other emerging markets, including Argentina, Brazil and Mexico. Securities prices of companies with significant Latin American exposure were adversely affected by, among other events, the economic crises in Russia and Brazil in 1998, the collapse of the exchange rate regime in Turkey in February 2001 and the Argentine crisis in late 2001. In deciding whether to purchase, hold or sell our shares or ADSs, you may not have access to as much information about us as you would in the case of a U.S. company. There may be less publicly available information about us than is regularly published by or about U.S. issuers. Also, Luxembourg regulations governing the securities of Luxembourg companies may not be as extensive as those in effect in the United States, and Luxembourg law and regulations in respect of corporate governance matters might not be as protective of minority shareholders as state corporation laws in the United States. Furthermore, IFRS, the accounting standards in accordance with which we prepare our consolidated financial statements differ in certain material aspects from the accounting standards used in the United States. Holders of our ADSs may encounter difficulties in the exercise of dividend and voting rights. You may encounter difficulties in the exercise of some of your rights as a shareholder if you hold ADSs rather than shares. If we make a distribution in the form of securities, the depositary is allowed, at its discretion, to sell that right to acquire those securities on your behalf and instead distribute the net proceeds to you. Also, under certain circumstances, such as our failure to provide the depositary with voting materials on a timely basis, you may not be able to vote by giving instructions to the depositary. 17 Table of Contents Holders of our shares and ADSs in the United States may not be able to exercise preemptive rights in certain cases. Pursuant to Luxembourg corporate law, existing shareholders of the Company are generally entitled to preemptive subscription rights in the event of capital increases and issues of shares against cash contributions. Under the Company’s articles of association, the board of directors has been authorized to waive, limit or suppress such preemptive subscription rights until October 4, 2007. The Company may, however, issue shares without preemptive rights if the newly-issued shares are issued for consideration other than cash, are issued as compensation to directors, officers, agents or employees of the Company or its affiliates, or are issued to satisfy conversion or option rights created to provide compensation to directors, officers, agents or employees of the Company, its subsidiaries or its affiliates. Holders of the Company’s ADSs in the United States may, in any event, not be able to exercise any preemptive rights, if granted, for ordinary shares underlying their ADSs unless additional ordinary shares and ADSs are registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or Securities Act, with respect to those rights, or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. Prior to any capital increase or rights offering, the Company will evaluate the costs and potential liabilities associated with the exercise by holders of ADSs of their preemptive rights for ordinary shares underlying their ADSs and any other factors it considers appropriate. The Company may decide not to register any additional ordinary shares or ADSs, in which case the depositary would be required to sell the holders’ rights and distribute the proceeds thereof. Should the depositary not be permitted or otherwise be unable to sell preemptive rights, the rights may be allowed to lapse with no consideration to be received by the holders of the ADSs. It may be difficult to enforce judgments against us in U.S. courts. The Company is a corporation organized under the laws of Luxembourg, and most of our assets are located outside of the United States. Furthermore, most of the Company’s directors and officers named in this annual report reside outside the United States. As a result, investors may not be able to effect service of process within the United States upon us or our directors or officers or to enforce against us or them in U.S. courts judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities law. There is also uncertainty with regard to the enforceability of original actions in courts outside the United States of civil liabilities predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws. Furthermore, the enforceability in courts outside the United States of judgments entered by U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities law will be subject to compliance with procedural requirements under applicable local law, including the condition that the judgment does not violate the public policy of the applicable jurisdiction. 