Item 1A. RISK FACTORS ● Significant increases in the cost of energy or raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our margins and income from operations. Increases in paperboard costs, which represent a significant portion of our raw material costs, and any decrease in availability of paperboard could adversely affect our business. ● A significant amount of paperboard is scrapped as a result of normal operations. Virtually all paperboard waste is sold to third party recyclers. Changes in the recycled paperboard market may have an impact on our profitability. ● We have been dependent on certain customers, the loss of which could have material adverse effects on product sales and, depending on the significance of the loss, our results of operations, financial condition or cash flow. Our two largest customers accounted for 29.9% of total revenues in 2012. Our ability to generate cash flows is dependent, in significant part, on our ability to re-establish growth in sales volume and maintain or increase selling prices that we realize for our products. ● Our ability to successfully implement our business strategies and to realize anticipated savings is subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. ● The current economic environment and the reduced availability of credit may have decreased the financial stability of our major customers and suppliers. As a result, it may become more difficult for us to collect our accounts receivable and outsource products and services from our suppliers. If any of these conditions were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. ● We face intense competition, and if we are unable to compete successfully against other manufacturers of custom folding cartons, stock packaging and personalized print, we could lose customers and our revenues may decline. ● Our net sales and profitability could be affected by intense pricing pressures. If our facility is not as cost efficient as those of our competitors, or if our competitors otherwise choose to lower prices, we may lose customers, which could negatively impact our revenue, cash flows and financial condition. ● Delays in our plans to improve manufacturing productivity and control costs of operations could negatively impact our margins. ● Any prolonged disruption in production due to equipment failures, destruction of, or material damage to any of our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our net sales, margins and cash flows. ● Work stoppages and other labor relations matters may make it substantially more difficult or expensive for us to manufacture and distribute our products, which could result in decreased sales or increased costs, either of which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. ● We are dependent on key management personnel. We cannot be certain that we will be able to retain our executive officers and key personnel or attract additional qualified management in the future. 5 ● If we cannot protect our reputation due to product quality and liability issues, our business could be harmed. ● We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, and costs to comply with such laws and regulations, or any liability or obligation imposed under such laws or regulations, could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. ● We may unknowingly, or inadvertently violate the intellectual property rights of others as we innovate new ways to capture, aggregate, process and print orders from the internet which could result in the payment of damages or injunctions which could interfere with our business. ● We may not be able to adequately protect and defend our intellectual property and proprietary rights, which could harm our future success and competitive position. ● Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions, which can be caused by: outbreaks of hostilities or other geopolitical instability; declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation, interest rates, exchange rate volatility, default rates or the price of basic commodities; corporate, political or other scandals that reduce investor confidence in capital markets; natural disasters or pandemics; or a combination of these or other factors, may adversely affect our business and profitability. ● An impairment of our fixed assets could negatively impact our financial condition. Although this write-off would be a non-cash charge, it could significantly reduce our earnings and net worth. ● We could experience system failures that could interrupt the delivery of our products to customers and ultimately cause us to lose customers. Our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex systems, relying on people, process, and technology to function effectively. Any significant interruption to, or failure of, our systems could result in significant expense to repair or replace equipment or facilities, loss of customers, and harm to our business and reputation. Interruption could result from a wide variety of causes, including disruptions to the Internet, malicious attacks, and the loss or failure of other systems over which we have no control. While we have taken and are taking reasonable steps to prevent and mitigate the damage of such events, including information backup and disaster recovery processes, those steps may not be effective and there can be no assurance that any such steps can be effective against all possible risks. In addition, our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur. ● Our business exposes us to possible claims for personal injury or death for which we maintain insurance coverage. We monitor claims and potential claims of which we become aware and establish liability reserves for any deductibles or retention amounts based on our liability estimates for such claims. We cannot give any assurance that existing or future claims will not exceed the amount of our insurance coverage. In addition, we cannot give any assurance that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms or that our insurers will fulfill their coverage obligations. Claims brought against us that are not covered by insurance or that result in payments in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our results and financial condition. ● On October 29, 2012, the Board of Directors received a non-binding proposal from Messrs. Kevin T. Keane and Daniel G. Keane to acquire all of the Company’s outstanding Common Stock and Class B Stock that they do not currently directly or indirectly own for $7.20 per share in cash (the “Proposal”). In their letter outlining this proposal, Messrs. Kevin T. Keane and Daniel G. Keane indicated that they were unwilling to consider any transaction other than one in which they would be the acquirer. The Board of Directors has established a Special Committee of independent Directors (the “Special Committee”), comprised of Messrs. Robert J. McKenna, William G. Gisel and Howard Zemsky, to consider the proposal, to negotiate on behalf of the Company and, if it deems appropriate, to solicit and consider any alternative transactions. The Special Committee cautions the Company's shareholders and others considering trading in its securities that no decision has been made with respect to the Company's response to the proposal. There can be no assurance that any definitive offer will be made, that any agreement will be executed or that the transaction contemplated in the proposal or any other transaction will be approved or consummated. Until such time as the Company enters into or declares that it will not enter into a definitive agreement with Messrs. Kevin T. Keane and Daniel G. Keane or any alternative transaction, the price of the Company’s Common Stock may change to reflect market assumptions as to whether or not any transaction is likely to occur. In addition, the Company has incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs, expenses and fees for professional services and other transaction costs in connection with the Proposal, and many of these fees and costs are payable by the Company regardless of whether or not any potential transaction is consummated. 6 ● Certain cash balances with our bank are insured up to $250,000 by the FDIC, therefore any amounts in excess of this limit are subject to risk. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 