Item 1A. RISK FACTORS § Significant increases in the cost of energy or raw materials could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s margins and income from operations. Increases in paper costs, which represent a significant portion of our raw material costs, and any decrease in availability of paper could particularly adversely affect our business. § The Company’s ability to successfully implement its business strategies, its efforts to expand its markets for commercial print and to realize anticipated savings is subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. § Delays in our plans to improve manufacturing productivity and control costs of operations could negatively impact our margins. § We have been dependent on certain customers, the loss of which could have material adverse effects on product sales and, depending on the significance of the loss, our results of operations, financial condition or cash flow. The Company’s ability to generate cash flows is dependent, in significant part, on its ability to reestablish growth in sales volume and maintain or increase selling prices that it realizes for its products. 5 Table of Contents § The Company faces intense competition and, if it is unable to compete successfully against other manufacturers of paperboard or cartons, it could lose customers and its revenues may decline. § If we cannot protect our reputation due to product quality and liability issues, our business could be harmed. § The Company’s net sales and profitability could be affected by intense pricing pressures. If the Company’s facilities are not as cost efficient as those of its competitors, or if its competitors otherwise choose to lower prices, the Company may lose customers to its competitors, which could negatively impact its revenues, cash flows and financial condition. § Any prolonged disruption in production due to labor difficulties, equipment failures, destruction of or material damage to any of the Company’s facilities could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s net sales, margins and cash flows. § The Company may not be able to adequately protect and defend its intellectual property and proprietary rights, which could harm its future success and competitive position. § The Company is subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, and costs to comply with such laws and regulations, or any liability or obligation imposed under such laws or regulations, could negatively impact its financial condition and results of operations. § Work stoppages and other labor relations matters may make it substantially more difficult or expensive for the Company to manufacture and distribute its products, which could result in decreased sales or increased costs, either of which would negatively impact its financial condition and results of operations. § We are dependent on key management personnel. We cannot be certain that we will be able to retain our executive officers and key personnel or attract additional qualified management in the future. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable 