D. Risk Factors—Risks Relating to the Telecommunications Industry in the PRC—Our revenues may be adversely affected by reductions in tariffs and other changes in tariff regulations mandated by the PRC government”. Under the Telecommunications Regulations, cost is the primary basis for tariff setting. In addition, the tariff level should also take into account social and economic development, the development of the telecommunications industry and consumers’ ability to afford the services. The MIIT has gradually liberalized the tariff level by allowing telecommunications provider to set tariffs below certain tariff ceilings and permitting them to group their products and services, which could essentially lower the actual price for certain products and services included in the plan. Effective October 1, 2005, the MIIT and the National Development and Reform Commission set the tariff ceiling for local services, domestic long distance services, and international, Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan long distance services. With respect to the tariffs for domestic and international long distance services, telecommunications service providers are required to file the tariffs with the MIIT and the National Development and Reform Commission for record purpose, and, at the local level, the relevant provincial communications administrations and price bureaus. With respect to the tariffs for local services, filings 38 Table of Contents of the tariffs with the relevant provincial communications administrations and price bureaus for record purpose are required. With respect to service discounts plans, filings with the MIIT or, if service discounts plans are provided by the provincial subsidiaries of the telecommunications operator, with the relevant provincial communications administrations, are required. Currently, the MIIT allows tariffs for VoIP, Internet access services and certain value-added services provided over wireline telephone networks to be set by service providers. We expect that the tariff ceilings for the long distance services will decrease and the tariff ceilings for other services will remain stable. Following the telecommunications industry restructuring in 2008 and the formation of three telecommunications service providers each with full-service capabilities and competitive strength, it is expected that the MIIT will gradually liberalize the regulation on tariff setting. Interconnection Under the Telecommunications Regulations and the Administrative Rules on Interconnection between the Public Telecommunications Networks promulgated by the MII in May 2001, major telecommunications operators in the PRC cannot refuse requests for interconnection and must enter into interconnection agreements upon request by other service providers. Interconnection agreements must be filed with the MIIT. Interconnection agreements may not be terminated unilaterally without prior approval by the MIIT. The Telecommunications Regulations further provide that the technical standards and settlement methods for network interconnections be formulated by the MIIT. In accordance with these regulations, China Telecom Group has entered into various interconnection agreements with other telecommunications service providers, including China Mobile and China Unicom. The MIIT (or the MII prior to March 2008) issued three Notices on Adjustment to Settlement Standards for Interconnection Fees of Wireline Local Telephone Networks, in October 2005, January 2007 and April 2009, respectively, which provide for interconnection settlement arrangement standards for local inter-district calls between wireline local telephone operators. The following table sets forth selected interconnection revenue sharing and settlement arrangements for local calls: Network from Which Calls Originated Network at Which Calls Terminated Current Main Settlement Arrangement Mobile operator Wireline local operator (1) Mobile operator collects the cellular usage charge from its subscribers (2) Mobile operator pays RMB0.06 per minute to wireline operator Wireline local operator Mobile operator No revenue sharing or settlement Wireline local operator A Wireline local operator B (1) Operator A collects the usage charge from its subscribers (2) In the case of local calls from operator A not using operator B’s local inter-district trunk circuit, operator A pays 50% of usage charge to operator B (3) In the case of local inter-district calls from operator A using operator B’s local inter-district trunk circuit, operator A pays no more than RMB0.15 (RMB0.06 after June 1, 2009) per minute to operator B Mobile operator A Mobile operator B (1) Mobile operator A collects the cellular usage charge from its subscribers (2) Mobile operator A pays RMB0.06 per minute to mobile operator B 39 Table of Contents The following table sets forth selected current main interconnection revenue sharing and settlement arrangements for PSTN domestic long distance calls: Network from Which Calls Originated Network at Which Calls Terminated Current Main Settlement Arrangement Wireline local or mobile operator A Wireline local or mobile operator B, through the long distance network of operator C (1) Operator C collects the tariff from its subscribers (2) Operator C pays RMB0.06 per minute to operator A, RMB0.06 per minute to operator B, and gets the rest of the long distance tariff The following table sets forth selected current main interconnection revenue sharing and settlement arrangements for PSTN international long distance calls, including calls originated from and terminated in Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan: Network from Which Calls Originated Network at Which Calls Terminated Current Main Settlement Arrangement Domestic wireline local or mobile operator A Without using the carrier identity code of operator B, through the domestic and international long distance network of operator B (1) Operator A collects the tariff from the subscribers (2) Operator A retains RMB0.06 per minute, and operator B gets the rest of the international long distance tariff. Using the carrier identity code of operator B, through the domestic and international long distance network of operator B (1) Operator B collects the tariff from the subscribers (2) Operator B pays operator A RMB0.06 per minute International long distance operator Operator B through domestic long distance network of operator C and international gateway of domestic operator A (1) Operator A pays not more than RMB0.54 per minute to operator C, operator C pays not more than RMB0.06 per minute to operator B, where operator A and operator C, or operator B and operator C can be the same operator The following table sets forth selected current main interconnection revenue sharing and settlement arrangements for IP long distance calls: Network from Which Calls Originated Network at Which Calls Terminated Current Main Settlement Arrangement Wireline or mobile network A Wireline local or mobile operator B through the IP long distance network of operator C (1) Operator C collects the IP long distance charges from its subscribers (2) Operator C pays RMB0.06 per minute to operator B on the terminating end (3) No settlement between operator C and operator A on the originating end 40 Table of Contents Technical Standards The MIIT sets industry technical standards for telecommunications terminal and interconnection related equipment used in the public telecommunications networks. A network access license from the MIIT and other relevant regulatory authorities is required for all such equipment. Most of the standards set by the MIIT conform to standards recommended by the International Telecommunications Union and other international telecommunications standards organizations. Capital Investment On July 16, 2004, the State Council promulgated the Decision on Reform of Investment System, or the Investment Reform Decision, which significantly modified the government approval process for major investment projects in the PRC. The Investment Reform Decision eliminated the government approval requirements for investment projects that do not involve direct government funding unless the investment projects are in the restricted sectors specified in the annually adjusted catalogue released by the State Council. The 2004 catalogue, which was attached as an annex to the Investment Reform Decision, sets forth approval requirements for individual investment projects in restricted sectors. Within the telecommunications sector, some investment projects, such as domestic backbone transmission network, require the National Development and Reform Commission’s approval. The Investment Reform Decision grants large enterprises more power of decision-making on investment. Where a large enterprise which has established modern corporate governance invests in any of the projects in the restricted sectors specified in the 2004 catalogue, it may apply for approval on individual project basis, or make medium and long-term development and construction plan, which, if approved by the State Council or the competent governmental authority, no specific approval is required for the projects contemplated in the plan. In this case, the enterprise is only required to go through the registration process and report to the relevant governmental authority, on a timely basis, the construction process of the project. Telecommunications Resources The MIIT is responsible for the administration and allocation of telecommunications resources in the PRC, including radio frequencies and telecommunications network numbers. The use of these resources by telecommunications service providers is subject to the approval of the MIIT or the relevant provincial communications administrations and a usage fee payable to the PRC government. In 2008, we paid approximately RMB117 million of usage fees for the telecommunications network numbers and approximately RMB82 million of frequency usage fees, respectively. Quality of Service Under the Telecommunications Regulations, the MIIT and the relevant provincial communications administration have the responsibility of supervising and monitoring the quality of services provided by telecommunications service providers in the PRC. Under the Telecommunications Regulations, customers of telecommunications service providers have the right to submit complaints to the MIIT and the relevant provincial communications administration or other relevant government authorities. On March 13, 2005, the MII promulgated the Telecommunications Services Standards. The Telecommunications Services Standards aim to protect the rights of the customers of telecommunications services and sets forth minimum quality requirements for telecommunications services provided by telecommunications operators. 41 Table of Contents The MII promulgated the Measures on the Supervision and Administration of Quality of Service of the Public Telecommunications Networks, or the Measures on Quality of Service, effective August 1, 2005. The Measures on Quality of Service provide the supervision and administration of services of public telecommunications networks, including, among others, wireline local telephone networks, domestic long distance telephone networks, international telephone networks, and IP telephone networks. Under the Measures on Quality of Service, telecommunications operators are required to set up a unit which is responsible for solving the problems with respect to the public telecommunications network services. Under the PRC Consumer Protection Law, Consumers’ Associations can participate in the inspection and examination of goods and services by relevant governmental authorities; and customers can lodge their complaints with Consumers’ Associations, which can investigate the goods or services involved in the complaints, and mediate the complaints. Universal Services Under the Telecommunications Regulations, telecommunications service providers in the PRC are required to fulfill universal service obligations in accordance with relevant regulations to be promulgated by the PRC government, and the MIIT has been given authority by the PRC government to delineate the scope of its universal service obligations. The MIIT may also select universal service providers through a tendering process. The MIIT, together with other regulatory authorities, is also responsible for formulating administrative rules relating to the establishment of a universal service fund and compensation schemes for universal services. The PRC government currently uses financial resources to compensate the expenses incurred in the “Village to Village” projects before the establishment of a universal service fund. In December 2006, the Ministry of Finance issued the Provisional Rules on Usage and Administration of Telecommunications Universal Service Fund, effective December 21, 2006, which provide a compensation scheme for certain expenses incurred in the “Village to Village” projects undertaken by telecommunications service providers. Under the compensation scheme, telecommunications operators may receive compensation from the PRC government for the “Village to Village” projects. These rules provide for the application for the compensation, the method to calculate the amount, the approval process and the distribution of the compensation. However, the compensation from the PRC government may not be sufficient to cover all of our expenses for providing the telecommunications services under the “Village to Village” projects. Under the Telecommunications Regulations, all PRC telecommunications operators shall provide universal services, but the formal timetable for the establishment of the systems to implement universal services has not been set up. Once the universal service regulatory framework is finalized, we expect to perform our duties thereunder accordingly. Currently, the PRC government implements the “Village to Village” projects which require telecommunications operators to provide telephone services in a number of remote villages in the PRC as transitional measures prior to the official implementation of a universal service obligation framework. Accordingly, China Telecom Group has initiated “Village to Village” projects. By the end of 2008, China Telecom Group had invested in the construction of network facilities in certain remote villages of 16 provinces and autonomous regions, including Tibet. We have been requested by China Telecom Group to operate and maintain such network facilities from 2006 onwards, and China Telecom Group will compensate us for all the related expenses. We believe the expenses for such operation and maintenance will not have a material effect on our financial condition. State-Owned Assets Supervision Under the PRC Company Law, Interim Measures for the Supervision and Administration of State-Owned Assets of the Enterprises, and other administrative regulations, the SASAC, among others, supervises the preservation of the value of state-owned assets, guides the reform and restructuring of state-owned enterprises, and evaluates the performances of management executives of state-owned enterprises through legal procedures. Our controlling shareholder, China Telecom Group, is a wholly state-owned enterprise and subject to the SASAC’s supervision. C. Organization Structure See “—A. History and Development of the Company—Our Restructuring and Initial Public Offering in 2002” included elsewhere under this Item. 42 Table of Contents D. Property, Plants and Equipment Properties Executive Offices Our principal executive offices are located in Beijing and we obtained the right to occupy and use these offices pursuant to an agreement we entered into with China Telecom Group in September 2002 and supplemental agreements on October 26, 2003, April 13, 2004, December 15, 2005, December 26, 2007 and March 31, 2008. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions—Ongoing Related Party Transactions between Us and China Telecom Group—Centralized Services Agreements”. Properties We conduct our business on land and premises either owned by ourselves or leased from China Telecom Group and/or its affiliates and third parties. As to our owned properties, although a majority of the land and building titles to these properties have been registered in our name after they were acquired by us as part of our restructuring, certain land and building titles to these properties are still registered in the name of China Telecom Group. China Telecom Group has agreed to indemnify us against any loss or damage incurred by us caused by or arising from any challenge of, or interference with, our right to use these properties. As to our leased properties, China Telecom Group has undertaken to us that it will indemnify us against any loss or damage caused by or arising from any challenge to, or interference with, such right. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions—Ongoing Related Party Transactions between Us and China Telecom Group—Property Leasing Framework Agreement”. Item 4A. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects. You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and our selected financial data, in each case included elsewhere in this annual report. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS. On March 31, 2008, we entered into an Acquisition Agreement with China Telecom Group to acquire the entire equity interests in Beijing Telecom from China Telecom Group. Because we and Beijing Telecom were under the common control of China Telecom Group, our acquisition of Beijing Telecom has been accounted for in a manner similar to a pooling-of-interests. Accordingly, the assets and liabilities of Beijing Telecom have been accounted for at historical amounts and our financial statements for periods prior to the respective acquisitions have been restated to include the financial position and results of operations of Beijing Telecom on a combined basis. Unless otherwise indicated in this section, our financial data for periods prior to the acquisitions are presented based on those restated amounts. On October 1, 2008, we acquired from China Unicom and CUCL, the CDMA Business and related assets and liabilities for a total consideration of RMB43,800 million. See “