D. Risk Factors. Special Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements. This annual report contains forward-looking statements about our industry, our business, our plans and objectives, our financial condition and our results of operations that are based on our current expectations, assumptions, estimates and projections. These forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Generally, these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “may”, “will”, “expect”, “anticipate”, “estimate”, “plan” or similar words. These statements discuss future expectations, identify strategies, discuss market trends, contain projections of results of operations or of financial condition, or state other forward-looking information. Known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from and worse than those contained in or suggested by any forward-looking statement. We cannot promise that our expectations, projections, anticipated estimates or other information expressed in or underlying these forward-looking statements will be realized. We do not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Important risk factors that could cause our actual results to be materially different from as described in the forward-looking statements are set forth in this Item 3.D or elsewhere in this annual report and include, without limitation: • our ability to continue to win acceptance of our products, which are offered in highly competitive markets characterized by the continuous introduction of new products, rapid developments in technology and subjective and changing consumer preferences; • changes in economic conditions affecting our operations or the way that individuals choose to spend their leisure time; • our ability to successfully expand internationally with a focus on our Digital Entertainment segment and Gaming & Systems segment; • our ability to successfully expand the scope of our business and broaden our customer base through our Health & Fitness segment; • our ability to successfully generate cash flows on an individual club operation level sufficient to recover the carrying value of the related individual club operations; • regulatory developments and changes, in particular in the gaming industry, and our ability to respond and adapt to those changes; • the impact of natural disasters, such as earthquakes, on our facilities and personnel; • our ability to successfully integrate current acquisitions and realize expected synergies and business benefits to recover the acquisition investment, including goodwill and separately identifiable intangible assets; and • our expectations with regard to further acquisitions and the integration of any companies we may acquire. Risks Relating to Our Overall Business Our future success is dependent on our ability to release “hit” products. The market for video game software, amusement arcade games, token-operated games, card games and online service products that belong to our Digital Entertainment segment, gaming machines that belong to our Gaming & Systems segment, and pachinko liquid crystal display and pachinko slot machines that belong to our Pachinko & Pachinko Slot Machines segment are “hit” driven. “Hit” products account for a substantial portion of our net revenues and of the revenues in each of these markets. For example, the fast growth of our card game products in 3 Table of Contents recent years resulted from the sales of our Yu-Gi-Oh! TRADING CARD GAME, and revenues for our content for social networks business are heavily dependent on the sales of our rapidly growing titles such as DRAGON COLLECTION, SENGOKU COLLECTION, CROWS X WORST—Saikyou Densetsu—and Professional Baseball Dream Nine. Similarly, hit home video game software titles such as the WORLD SOCCER Winning Eleven series and the METAL GEAR SOLID series, as well as our e-AMUSEMENT products for our amusement facilities, have contributed significantly to our recent results. If we do not develop, publish and distribute “hit” products in the future, our financial condition, results of operations and profitability in these segments could be negatively affected. The most important factor in developing hit products is to respond quickly to public tastes and preferences that change rapidly and are hard to predict. Therefore, if we fail to accurately anticipate and promptly respond to changing tastes and preferences, our business, revenues and profits in these segments could be harmed. Our revenues are dependent on timely introduction of popular new products to the market. Our success depends on generating revenue from the timely introduction and shipment of new products. The majority of sales of new video game software generally occurs in the first thirty to one hundred and twenty days after release. The sales occurrence for amusement arcade games, token-operated games and card game products that belong to our Digital Entertainment segment, gaming machines that belong to our Gaming & Systems segment and pachinko slot machines that belong to our Pachinko & Pachinko Slot Machines segment also tends to be limited. We are constantly required to introduce new products in order to generate revenues and/or to replace declining revenues from older products. Also, because revenues earned during the early life of a product generally constitute a relatively high percentage of the total revenues earned from a product, a significant delay in the introduction of one or more new products, or the inability to ship in sufficient quantities to meet demand, could negatively affect sales and have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Unanticipated delays could also cause us to miss an important selling season such as the year-end holiday buying season or summer vacation. Moreover, our products may not achieve and sustain market acceptance during the short life cycle sufficient to generate revenue to recover our investment in developing the products and to cover our other costs. The timely shipment of a new product depends on various factors, including the development process, approval by third-party licensors, production capacity and other factors such as debugging and approval by hardware licensors, in the case of video game software. It is possible that some of our products will not be released or shipped in a timely fashion in accordance with our plans. Competition for market acceptance and pricing competition affect our revenue and profitability. The markets for content for social networks, video game software, amusement arcade games, token-operated games, card game products, gaming machines and most of our other products are intensely competitive and new products and platforms are regularly introduced. Only a small percentage of products introduced in the market achieve any degree of sustained market acceptance. In the case of video game software for handheld systems and home game consoles, amusement arcade games, token-operated games, gaming machines and pachinko and pachinko slot machines, significant price competition and reduced profit margins may result as the hardware product cycle matures. In addition, competition from new technologies such as video game software for play over the Internet or mobile phones may reduce demand in markets in which we have traditionally competed. As a result of prolonged price competition and reduced demand due to competing technologies, our operations in the past have been, and in the future could continue to be, negatively impacted. Our competitors vary in size from small companies to very large corporations, some of which have significantly greater financial, marketing and product development resources than we have. Due to these greater resources, certain of our competitors can undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, pay higher fees to licensors of desirable motion picture, television, music, sports and character properties and pay more to third party software developers than we can. It is also possible that some of our competitors will form alliances or enter into exclusive business arrangements with key creators, distributors or retailers overseas which could hinder our ability to expand into international markets. 4 Table of Contents A decline in consumer spending due to unfavorable economic conditions could hinder sales of our products. Our product sales are affected by customer’s ability and desire to spend disposable income on the purchase of our products. Any significant downturn in general economic conditions which results in a reduction in consumers’ discretionary spending could reduce demand especially for entertainment and health-oriented products and services like ours and may harm our business. For example, economic weakness in Europe and lingering uncertainty surrounding the sovereign debt of several European economies have negatively affected consumer spending trends in Europe and in the global economy generally and may continue to have an adverse impact on economic conditions, including in Japan. Economic downturns have been, and may continue to be, characterized by diminished product and service demand and subsequent erosion of average selling prices. Our performance may be vulnerable to rapidly changing consumer preferences. Sales of our products depend substantially on how consumers decide to spend their money. Many of our markets are characterized by rapidly changing trends and fads, and frequent innovations and improvements are necessary to maintain consumer interest. We compete with other forms of entertainment and leisure activities. For example, we believe that the overall growth in the use of the internet and online services by consumers may pose a competitive threat if customers and potential customers spend less of their available time using video game software, amusement arcade games, token-operated games, card game products, gaming machines and pachinko and pachinko slot machines, and more time using the Internet or otherwise choose to engage in other forms of entertainment and leisure activities. Our financial performance may be harmed if we are unable to successfully adapt our products and services to these changing trends and fads. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results make our quarterly revenues and income difficult to predict. The timing of release of new products can cause material quarterly revenue and earnings fluctuations. A significant portion of revenues in any quarter is often derived from sales of new products introduced in that quarter or in the immediately preceding quarter. If we are unable to begin volume shipments of a significant new product during the scheduled quarter, our revenues and earnings will be negatively affected in that period. In addition, because a majority of the unit sales for many of our products typically occur in the first thirty to one hundred and twenty days following their introduction, revenues and earnings may increase significantly in a period in which a major product is introduced and may decline in the following period or in periods in which there are no major product introductions. Our quarterly operating results also may be materially impacted by other factors, including the operating condition of our content for social networks, the level of market acceptance or demand for video game software, the timing of hardware platform introductions, the level of development and/or promotion expenses for a video game title. Also, many of our products are in the greatest demand from November to January, particularly in November and December and at the end and beginning of the year. The reason for this trend is that these months correspond to the periods of children’s school holidays. In Japan, it is customary to give presents to girlfriends, boyfriends, and family members during the Christmas and New Year season and buy toys as Christmas and New Year presents in December and January. In addition, in the U.S. demand is highest from November, starting with Thanksgiving and through the Christmas season. Moreover, in a platform transition period, sales of video game software products can be significantly affected by the timeliness of introduction of video game systems by the manufacturers of those platforms, such as Sony Corporation (“Sony”), Nintendo Co., Ltd. (“Nintendo”) and Microsoft Corporation (“Microsoft”). Inability to procure commercially valuable intellectual property licenses may prevent product releases or result in reduced product sales. We focus our development and publishing activities principally on products that are, or have the potential to become, franchise brand properties. Many of our products are based on intellectual property and other character or story rights acquired or licensed from third parties. For example, our products often embody trademarks, trade 5 Table of Contents names, logos, or copyrights licensed by third parties, such as Major League Baseball Properties, Inc., and Major League Baseball Players Association. We have also acquired content licenses from sports organizations such as FIFPro Commercial Enterprises BV, the UEFA Champions League, the Japan Professional Baseball League, the Japan Professional Soccer League, or J-League, and the Japan Football Association. In addition, we have obtained content licenses from various companies, including NIHON AD SYSTEMS Inc., Kodansha Ltd. and Shogakukan-Shueisha Productions Co., Ltd. These license and distribution agreements are limited in scope and time, and we may not be able to acquire new licenses, renew licenses or include new products in existing licenses. The agreements are terminable upon the occurrence of a number of factors, including our material breach of the agreement, delay in payment of amounts due to the licensor in a timely manner, or a bankruptcy or insolvency. The loss of a significant number of our intellectual property licenses or of our relationships with licensors could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop new products and therefore on our business and financial results. Inadequate intellectual property protections could prevent us from enforcing or defending our proprietary technology. We regard our products as proprietary and rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, employee and third party nondisclosure agreements and other methods to protect our proprietary rights. We own or license various patents, copyrights and trademarks. We are aware that some unauthorized copying occurs within the video game software, trading card game and arcade machine industries. For example, unauthorized copies of the Yu-Gi-Oh! TRADING CARD GAME have been found all over the world. If a significant volume of unauthorized copying of our trading card games and other products were to occur, it could cause material harm to our business and financial results. Policing all the unauthorized use of our products is difficult and can be a persistent problem, especially in some international markets. Further, the laws of some countries where our products are or may be distributed either do not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of Japan and the United States, or are poorly enforced. Legal protection of our rights may be ineffective in such countries, and we may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights, particularly as we pursue new and emerging technologies. We cannot assure you that existing intellectual property laws will provide adequate protection for our products in connection with these emerging technologies. Infringement of intellectual property rights could lead to costly litigation and/or the need to enter into license agreements, which may result in increased operating expenses. Existing or future infringement claims against us may result in costly litigation or require us to obtain a license for the proprietary rights of third parties, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. As the number of our products increases there is an increased possibility of the contents and features of these products overlapping with the products of other companies, and we become subject to an increasing possibility of infringement claims. Although we are making efforts to ensure that our products do not violate the intellectual property rights of others, it is possible that third parties still may claim infringement. From time to time, third parties have asserted that some of our products infringed their proprietary rights. These infringement claims have sometimes resulted in litigation against us. For example, in video game software featuring sports such as baseball and soccer, we use individual names and images of professional players, team names, logos and uniforms. Although we have obtained licenses to use them from organizations and agents which manage the rights of the professional players and the teams, in the event agreements change or any disputes arise among the professional players, the teams and organizations or agents which manage their rights, it is possible that such professional players, teams, organizations or agents might bring a lawsuit against us to suspend manufacturing and sales of the relevant video game software. Such a lawsuit may be time consuming and expensive to defend. 6 Table of Contents Intellectual property litigation or claims could force us to do one or more of the following: • cease selling, incorporating or using products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property, which, if available at all, may not be available on commercially favorable terms; or • redesign our products, which could cause us to incur additional costs, delay introduction and possibly reduce commercial appeal of our products. Any of these actions may cause material harm to our business and financial results. If our products contain defects, our business could be harmed significantly. Our video game software products, amusement arcade games, token-operated games, exercise equipment, gaming machines, pachinko liquid crystal displays (“LCDs”) and pachinko slot machines are complex and may contain undetected errors when first introduced or when new versions are released. We cannot assure you that, despite extensive testing prior to release, errors will not be found in new products or releases after shipment, resulting in loss of or delay in market acceptance. This loss or delay could significantly harm our business and financial results. We may face limitations on our ability to find suitable acquisition opportunities and integrate acquired businesses. In order to develop and market our products and services competitively, we are seeking opportunities in and outside Japan to make acquisitions of controlling or significant stakes in other businesses that will grow our current businesses. Some of these transactions could be material in size and scope. Our acquisitions strategy requires that we effectively coordinate and integrate our activities with those of the companies in which we invest or which we acquire. In the event we make such acquisitions or investments, we will face additional financial and operational risks, including: • difficulty in assimilating the operations, technology and personnel of acquired companies; • disruption in our business because of the allocation of financial and human resources to consummate the acquisitions; • difficulty in retaining key technical and managerial personnel from acquired companies; • dilution of our current shareholders if we issue equity to fund one or more of these acquisitions or investments; • considerable efforts required to successfully integrate acquisitions and realize expected synergies and business benefits to recover acquisition investments, including any goodwill and separately identifiable intangible assets; and • assumption of operating losses and increased expenses, charges and liabilities in connection with acquisitions. While we will continually be searching for additional acquisition opportunities, we may not be successful in identifying suitable acquisitions. As the video game software, amusement arcade machine, fitness club, gaming machine and pachinko and pachinko slot industries continue to consolidate, we face significant competition in seeking and consummating acquisition opportunities. We may not be able to consummate potential acquisitions or investments on terms acceptable to us or such an acquisition or investment may not enhance our business or may decrease rather than increase our earnings. Our shareholders may not have the opportunity to review, vote on or evaluate future acquisitions. 7 Table of Contents Our business and financial results could be negatively impacted if we are unable to attract additional qualified employees or retain the services of key employees, the loss of whom could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our continued growth and success depend to a significant extent on the continued service of our senior management and other key employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. The software industry in particular is characterized by a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting among competitors for personnel with technical, marketing, sales, product development and management skills. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled personnel or may incur significant costs in order to do so that may not be offset through either improved productivity or higher prices. Factors specific to international trade may result in reduced revenues and/or increased costs. Approximately 80% of our net revenues during fiscal 2013 were derived from sales in Japan. Although we expect that domestic sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues in future periods, we continue to expand our international operations, particularly with respect to content for social networks, video game software, gaming machines and card game products, including through alliances or investments. Sales in foreign countries may involve expenses incurred to customize products to comply with local laws, especially in the case of gaming machines. In addition, products that are successful in the domestic Japanese market may not be successful in foreign markets due to different consumer preferences. In addition, our costs will increase as a result of the need to conduct market research to discover local preferences and tastes and to develop foreign language versions or make product modifications in order to tailor our products to various local markets. In the case of video game software, we may have to grant price concessions to or accept returns from major retailers that control market access to consumers. International trade is also subject to general country risks, including suspension of currency exchange by governments, increases in tariffs, and forfeiture of property through expropriation by governments. International trade is also exposed to fluctuating exchange rates. We may become exposed to increased litigation risks or unexpected bankruptcy risks through product liabilities, facility liabilities, product defect or labor issues in the course of further expanding our business, enhancing our international network and increasing our vendors and customers. These and other factors specific to international trade may result in increased costs or reduced revenues. Demographic trends may have an adverse effect on our target market and our ability to increase revenues. The Japanese population of people in their teens, twenties and thirties, the traditional target market for our products and services including content for social networks, computer and video games products and amusement arcade games, is expected to decline. Accordingly, we may not be able to increase or maintain revenues if we are unable to expand our customer base and product offerings to overseas markets. Life expectancy in Japan is among the highest of the developed countries. However, as a result of a decline in fertility rates, Japan’s population is expected to begin declining and its demographic makeup is already aging considerably. According to government estimates, as of October 2012, 24.1% of Japan’s population was aged 65 or over, and this percentage, which was released in January 2012 and calculated for the 2010 national census, is expected to reach 31.6% by 2030 and 39.4% by 2055. Unexpected network interruptions or security breaches, including hackings, may cause delays, interruptions of service or leak of personal information, resulting in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and damage to our reputation and brands. Hacking may cause delays or other service interruptions or leak of confidential information, such as personal information and could result in significant damage to our hardware, software systems and databases, disruptions to our service and business activities, such as to our website, e-mail and other communication systems. If we experience frequent or persistent service disruptions, whether caused by hackings or failures of our own systems or those of third-party service providers, our customers’ experience with us may be negatively affected, which in turn, may have a material and adverse effect on our reputation and brands and our business, financial condition and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents Wars, terrorism, pandemic, natural disasters and other incidents which may cause political, economic or social instability may disrupt our operations or otherwise result in a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Incidents such as terrorism, riots, wars, pandemic and natural disasters may adversely affect the world economy. Resulting social and political instability may cause further economic and political uncertainty in each of the regions we conduct our operations. As a result, our and our suppliers’ operations and financial performance as well as our customers’ investment and consumption patterns may be adversely affected. For instance, on March 11, 2011, a large earthquake and subsequent tsunami and aftershock hit northeastern Japan, causing material losses and damage to life, infrastructure and distribution routes, as well as supply instability in certain regions caused by damage to a nuclear power plant complex in Fukushima Prefecture. Risks Relating to Our Digital Entertainment Segment Transitions in game consoles and technological change have a material impact on the market for video game software and may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. The life cycle of existing game consoles and the market acceptance and popularity of new game consoles significantly affect the success of our products. The introduction of new technologies could render our current products or products in development obsolete or unmarketable. In addition, we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in developing and publishing video game software for new game consoles on a timely basis. Further, the release dates of new game platforms or the number of units that will be shipped upon such release are beyond the scope of our control. Also, when new game consoles are announced or introduced into the market, consumers typically reduce their purchases of video game software products for current consoles in anticipation of new platforms becoming available. During these periods, sales of our video game software products can be expected to slow down or even decline until new platforms have been introduced and have achieved wide consumer acceptance. For example, sales of some of our products for the previous PlayStation 2 and Nintendo GameCube platforms were negatively affected by the platform transition to Sony PlayStation 3, Nintendo Wii and Microsoft Xbox 360. Also, if fewer than expected units of a new game platform are manufactured or shipped, or the introduction of a new platform is significantly delayed, we may experience lower-than-expected sales. We must make significant expenditures to develop products for new platforms which may not be successful or released when anticipated. The cyclical nature of the industry requires us to anticipate and assess the emergence and market acceptance of new game consoles and develop new software well in advance of the time the platform is introduced to consumers. If the platforms for which we develop new software products do not attain significant market penetration or our new products fail to gain market acceptance, we may not be able to recover in revenues our development expenses, which could be significant, and our business and financial results could be significantly harmed. We anticipate that our profitability will continue to be impacted by the levels of research and development expenses relative to revenues, and by fluctuations relating to the timing of development in anticipation of future platforms. If we are unable to obtain or renew licenses from hardware manufacturers, we will not be able to release video game software for popular video game systems and our revenue and profitability may be negatively impacted. Almost all of our revenues from the game software business have historically been derived from sales of video game software for use on proprietary game platforms developed and manufactured by other companies. We may only publish our games for play on their game platforms if we receive a platform license from them, which is generally for an initial term of several years and may be extended for additional one-year terms. If we cannot obtain licenses to develop video game software from manufacturers of popular game consoles or if any of 9 Table of Contents our existing license agreements are terminated, we will not be able to release video game software for those systems, which may have a negative impact on our results of operations and profitability. Although we cannot assure shareholders that we will be able to obtain extensions or that we will be successful in negotiating definitive license agreements with developers of new systems when the term of existing license agreements end, to date we have always obtained extensions or new agreements with the hardware companies. We also depend on hardware manufacturers for the following additional reasons: • platform manufacturers have considerable control over the prices for their publisher licenses; • we must obtain their prior review and approval to publish games on their platforms; • if the popularity of a game platform declines, or the manufacturer stops manufacturing or does not meet the demand for a platform, or delays the introduction of a platform in a region important to us, the games that we have published and that we are developing for that platform would likely produce lower sales than we anticipate; • these manufacturers control the manufacture of, or approval to manufacture, the game discs and cartridges that incorporate our video game software; and • these companies have the exclusive right to protect the intellectual property rights to their respective hardware platforms and technology and to discourage others from producing unauthorized software for their platforms that compete with our games. In addition, we depend on Sony and Nintendo for the manufacture of products that we develop for their hardware platforms. Games for Microsoft’s hardware platforms must be manufactured by an authorized replicator. Our hardware platform licenses with these hardware manufacturers provide that the manufacturer may change licenses’ costs. These licenses include other provisions such as approval rights of all products and related promotional materials that could have an effect on our costs and the timing of release of new titles. Since major manufacturers such as Sony and Nintendo are also publishers of games for their own hardware platforms and manufacture products for all of their other licensees, such manufacturers may give priority to their own products or those of our competitors in the event of insufficient manufacturing capacity. Our business and financial results could be materially harmed by unanticipated delays in the manufacturing and delivery of our products by Sony or Nintendo, which has occurred in the past. In addition, our business and financial results could be materially harmed if Sony or Nintendo used their rights under these agreements to delay the manufacture or delivery of our products, limit the costs recoverable by us to manufacture video game software for their consoles, or elect to manufacture video game software themselves or use developers other than us. Our game software for both game consoles and amusement arcade games may be subject to governmental restrictions, rating restrictions or to legal claims regarding content. Legislation introduced at the local, state and federal levels in the United States and in other countries has established rating systems to inform consumers of software products that contain graphic violence and/or sexually explicit material. In 2005, legislation was also introduced in Japan to establish a system for local authorities to restrict the provision of products containing graphic violence. In addition, many countries have laws that permit governmental entities to censor the content and advertising of software. Although there are no mandatory government regulations in Japan, North America, Europe and Asian countries that are significant markets or potential markets for our products, an exception is China, where governmental approval is required for software sales in that country. Similar requirements for governmental approval may be adopted elsewhere. We may be required to modify our products or alter our marketing strategies to comply with new regulations, which could delay the release of our products in those countries. Moreover, uncertainties regarding the rating systems may give rise to confusion in the marketplace, and we are unable to predict what effect, if any, such rating systems would have on our business. In the past several years, at least one lawsuit has been filed in the United States against video game companies by the families of persons shot and killed by teenage gunmen. This lawsuit, which did not name us as 10 Table of Contents a defendant, alleged that the video game companies manufactured and/or supplied these teenagers with violent video games, teaching them how to use a gun and causing them to act out in a violent manner. While the plaintiffs’ claims were dismissed, similar lawsuits may be filed in the future which, if decided against us and our insurance carrier does not cover the amounts we are liable for, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Also payment of significant claims by insurance carriers may make such insurance coverage materially more expensive or unavailable in the future, thereby exposing our business to additional risk. Although neither the terrorist attacks in the United States of America in September 2001, the late 2001 bio-terrorist attacks on various organizations nor the terrorist attacks relating to the Iraq war commenced in March 2003 have had a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition, we cannot assure you that future terrorist attacks or the response of governments to any future terrorist actions, would not negatively affect our business by requiring us to modify the content of our video game software, which could result in expensive product recalls, reprogramming or delays in the release of future games. Our results of operations may suffer if amusement arcade revenues and sales of arcade games and token-operated game machines continue to decline. Amusement arcades are the primary venue for video game machines and token-operated game machines in Japan. Amusement arcade revenues and sales of arcade games have recently been affected by the shrinking market for such games. In addition, due to the development of full-scale home video game systems that can rival amusement arcade games in play quality and the introduction of advanced mobile telephones equipped with network and game functions, consumers now have increasing leisure alternatives outside of amusement arcades. As customer preferences diversify, fewer people may visit frequently the amusement arcades on which we depend for sales of our amusement arcade game software, amusement arcade games and token-operated game machines and this could have a negative impact on our results of operations if amusement arcade operators reduce purchases of our products as a result. If our games are not accepted in the competitive domestic market for video game machines and token-operated game machines for amusement arcades, our results of operations will suffer. Our success as a manufacturer of video game machines and token-operated game machines is dependent upon numerous factors, including our ability to design, manufacture, market and service video game machines and token-operated game machines that achieve player acceptance while maintaining product quality and acceptable margins. In addition, we must compete against other large and well-established game manufacturers such as SEGA SAMMY HOLDINGS INC. (“Sega Sammy”) and NAMCO BANDAI Holdings Inc. (“Namco Bandai”). If any of these game manufacturers, or another competitor, develops popular video game machines or token-operated game machines for amusement arcades and installed these game machines in the same arcade floor space as our video games and token-operated game machines, our sales from the amusement arcade game and domestic token-operated game machine markets may decrease significantly. Our business could be harmed if there is any substantial decline in the popularity of interactive Internet-based games or if our Internet-based games are not received favorably in the market. In recent years, the rapid growth of the Internet has resulted in the development of interactive software games for play over networks and on mobile phones. Although we are marketing mobile phone-based games as well as games which can be downloadable or which allows multiple players to play against each other using Wii, Nintendo DS, Nintendo 3DS, PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3, PlayStation Portable, PlayStation Vita, Xbox 360 or personal computers, games have diversified over recent years and consumers now have expanded choices. If there is any substantial decline in the popularity of our network-based games, our business, revenues and profits could be harmed. In addition, the development and operation of Internet-based games require a long period for development and a substantial amount of initial investment, including for example numerous test operations of facilities such 11 Table of Contents as servers. If our Internet-based games are not received favorably in the market, we may be unable to recoup our initial investment or operating expenses, and may have to recognize an impairment charge with respect to the servers and software assets associated with such games. Information processing failures in the operation of our Internet-based games may adversely affect our revenues and income. As our Internet-based games require servers that process a heavy volume of information, the computers we use as servers must be equipped with high processing capacity. Although we attempt to prevent troubles by performing maintenance for our servers, we may be unable to operate our Internet-based games if the information processing capacity of a server becomes suddenly overloaded or is unexpectedly attacked by external computer viruses. If the recovery of processing capacity requires a long period of time, thus driving customers away, or if such technical errors and interruptions occur repeatedly and cause our customers to lose confidence in our services, our net revenues and operating income may decrease. Abuses of network-based credit card billing authorization may adversely affect our revenues and profits. We collect charges for our network-based games based on consumers’ credit card information, through a credit card authorization agent. Although our credit card authorization agent takes all possible measures to ensure the privacy of customer information during billing transactions, if the credit card information of our customers is obtained by unauthorized third parties and used for unauthorized transactions, we may be required to make repayments of the unauthorized amounts out of the sales we made to such customers. In addition, if numerous abuses occur, a credit card authorization agent might cancel agency payment services with us, and our net revenues and operating income may be adversely affected. Any development adversely affecting our operation of content for social networks may have a negative impact on our profitability and growth. Our ability to achieve wide acceptance of our content for social networks by users depends in part on whether we can provide attractive content in a timely manner and efficiently operate our games. Even if our content for social networks achieves wide acceptance, we may be unable to generate adequate revenue from such content for social networks, as most of the games in this category are free to play and generate revenue only from sales of virtual items to players. In addition, the success of our content for social networks may be affected by the expansion of the industry related to content for social networks as well as other factors which are beyond our control. Such factors include: • changes in the economy; • the pace of market expansion; • popularity of content for social networks; and • establishment of legal regulations concerning content for social networks and self-imposed restrictions in the industry. If we are not able to provide competitive content, or if these political, economic, legal and other factors adversely affect the operation of our content for social networks our financial conditions and results of operation may be negatively impacted. If the agreements entered into with the distributors of our content for social networks are terminated, the continued provision of the services we are currently providing will become difficult, which may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We currently provide content for social networks almost entirely on the social networking sites operated by other companies. Our provision of content for social networks is based on agreements entered into with the 12 Table of Contents distributors which operate the social networking sites. In addition, with respect to our content for social networks, the proportion accounted for the use of specific distributors has increased. Therefore, if the agreements with the distributors are terminated, it will become difficult for us to continue providing services of our content on those social networking sites, and our businesses and financial performance may be damaged. Our revenues and profits may be adversely affected by major natural disasters such as the Great East Japan Earthquake. Natural disaster such as the Great East Japan Earthquake may cause postponement of the release of our products, delays in shipment due to the disruption of distribution network, delays in delivery of parts procured from the suppliers located in the disaster-stricken areas, related revisions to our production system and increases in procurement costs for parts and cancellation in procurement caused by increased scarcity of parts and inventory supply shortages in the market, as well as the suspension of distribution services for online games due to damaged telecommunications infrastructure. As a result, our revenues and profits may be adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Health & Fitness Segment Our Health & Fitness segment may not grow as we expect if we are not able to efficiently operate club locations upon opening such locations. Our operating results depend in part on our ability to efficiently operate club locations upon opening such locations. The successful development of clubs will depend on various factors, including our ability to: • locate suitable sites for clubs; • successfully negotiate lease agreements and meet construction schedules and budgets; • resolve zoning, permitting or other regulatory issues relating to the construction of new clubs; • hire, train and retain qualified personnel; • attract new members; and • effectively address issues raised by other factors, some or all of which may be beyond our control. If we are not able to adequately implement the factors outlined above, the growth of our Health & Fitness segment may be limited. We cannot assure you that we will be able to open new clubs in a timely and cost-efficient basis or operate our clubs profitably. Upon opening a new fitness club, we often experience an initial period of operating losses with respect to that club for the first year. However, this period can vary depending on the individual club, and may be substantially longer than a year. If we are unable to enhance the performance of our fitness clubs, our operating income may be adversely affected. We may still incur future impairment charges against goodwill, other identifiable intangible assets, or property and equipment. A decline in membership levels of our fitness clubs could have a negative effect on our business. The performance of our fitness clubs is dependent on our ability to attract, acquire and retain members. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in these efforts, or that the membership levels at one or more of our clubs will not decline. Our members can cancel their club membership at the end of any month provided that they give advance notice by the tenth day of that month. Because members periodically cancel their membership, our total number of members will decline unless we are able to attract new members each month. There are numerous factors that could lead to a decline in membership levels at established clubs or that could prevent us from increasing our membership at newer clubs, including our reputation, our ability to deliver quality service at a competitive cost, the presence of direct and indirect competition in the areas in which the clubs are located, general interest in sports and fitness clubs and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, we cannot assure you that our membership levels will be adequate to maintain or permit the expansion of our operations. In addition, a decline in membership levels may have a material adverse effect on our performance, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Failure to compete effectively in the fitness club industry will have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The fitness club industry is highly competitive. We compete with other fitness clubs, physical fitness and recreational facilities established by local governments, hospitals and businesses for their employees, amenity and condominium clubs and, to a certain extent, with tennis clubs and other sports clubs, golf clubs, weight reducing salons and the home-use fitness equipment industry. We also compete with other entertainment and retail businesses for the discretionary income of our target markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively in the future in the markets in which we operate. In addition, we may face new competitors in the market that may be larger and have greater resources than us. These competitive conditions may limit our ability to increase dues without a material loss in membership, attract new members and attract and retain qualified personnel. Additionally, consolidation in the fitness club industry could result in increased competition among participants, particularly as large multi-facility operators are better able to compete for attractive acquisition candidates, thereby increasing costs associated with expansion through acquisitions, as well as negotiation of leases and the availability of real estate. We could be subject to future claims related to health risks at our clubs. Use of our fitness clubs and equipment may pose some potential health risks to members or guests through exertion from use of our services and facilities including exercise equipment. As a result, we may be subject to claims against us for death or injury suffered by members while exercising at our fitness clubs, and we may not be able to successfully defend any such claims. We currently maintain general liability insurance coverage but there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such liability insurance on acceptable terms in the future or that such insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential claims. Any liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage may adversely affect our results of operations as well as damage our brand image. We are subject to various governmental regulations, any non-compliance with which could result in temporary closings and negative publicity, causing damage to our corporate image. Our operations are subject to national, local and municipal government regulation in the various jurisdictions in which our clubs are located. These regulations include, but are not limited to, health, sanitation and safety regulations with respect to the sale of food and beverages and the operation of swimming pools and baths. Any failure to comply with these regulations could result in the temporary suspension or loss of licenses necessary for food service and other operations at our clubs. In addition, any resulting negative publicity could have an adverse effect on our reputation, resulting in deterioration of our brand image and ability to attract, acquire, and retain club members. We may be unable to get refunds of deposits and guarantee money relating to leases of land and buildings for the use of our fitness club facilities. In many cases, we rent land and buildings when we open new fitness clubs. Under the lease agreements that we enter into with landowners, we are often required to make deposits and to provide guarantee money in case we default in payment of rent or neglect to restore the property to its original state upon termination of the lease agreement. Under such lease agreements, if we pay our rent and restore the property as stipulated, we are entitled to obtain refund of such deposits and guarantee money. However, if the owner of the property faces financial difficulty or is otherwise unable or unwilling to return these funds, we may not be able to obtain full refunds of such deposits and guarantee money. As of March 31, 2013, such deposits and guarantee money accounted for over 8% of our total assets. 14 Table of Contents Inability to procure licenses for fitness programs from third parties or changes in the conditions of such licenses may adversely affect our revenues. We act as a licensing agency in Japan, acquiring licenses for programs that have worldwide popularity, and supply the programs to not only our own facilities but also to other fitness clubs. In the event that it becomes difficult to renew licenses or if any changes are made to the conditions of such licenses, there may be a material adverse effect on our ability to supply programs to each facility and on our business results. The need to suspend our business operations due to unexpected epidemic diseases may adversely affect our revenues. Due to the H1N1 influenza pandemic during fiscal 2010, the business operations of fitness clubs in some areas of Japan were suspended at the discretion of the government. If an unexpected epidemic of an unknown or known disease in the future results in the suspension of business operations of our fitness clubs at the instruction of the government or at our own discretion, our business results could be affected. Abrupt changes in consumer tastes may adversely affect our business results. Revenues due to usage of our facilities are highly dependent upon how consumers chose to spend their money, which makes it imperative that we unremittingly provide high quality services in line with customer needs. For example, our business results could be negatively affected if fitness trends which don’t require the spending of money catch on, such as home fitness, running or walking. We may be adversely affected by natural disasters such as the Great East Japan Earthquake during fiscal 2011. Due to natural disasters as typified by the Great East Japan Earthquake during fiscal 2011, our directly-owned fitness clubs may be damaged and the sports facilities outsourced to us may become evacuation centers in some regions, which could result in the suspension of operations at some of our fitness clubs. In the future, similar earthquake disasters and other natural disasters may occur again and the operations of some of our fitness clubs may be suspended, which could adversely affect the financial performance of our Health & Fitness segment. Rolling blackouts due to the shortage of power supply may adversely affect our business results. Natural disasters such as the Great East Japan Earthquake during fiscal 2011 may damage power plants, which could result in a shortage of power supply. If power demand exceeds the available power supply in the future, rolling blackouts may be further implemented and operations at some of our fitness clubs and the manufacturing of products may be suspended, which could adversely affect our business results. Risks Relating to Our Gaming & Systems Segment If our gaming products are not accepted in the competitive market for gaming machines, we may be unable to compete in the gaming machine market. Our success as a gaming machine manufacturer and supplier in overseas markets is dependent upon numerous factors, including our ability to design, manufacture, market and service gaming machines and casino management systems that achieve player and casino acceptance while maintaining product quality and acceptable margins and to obtain approvals for our products from gaming authorities. In addition, we must compete against gaming equipment and system companies such as International Game Technology, Bally Technologies, Inc., Aristocrat Leisure Limited and WMS Industries Inc., which are among the largest and most-established suppliers of gaming machines in the world. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources, name recognition, established service networks and customer relationships than we do, and are licensed in more jurisdictions than we are. 15 Table of Contents In order to diversify and expand sales, we have obtained licenses in every state in Australia, the main states in the United States, and some provinces in Canada, and are marketing and selling gaming products in those markets. If our games and our system products fail to be accepted by the market, and we are otherwise unable to develop products that offer technological advantages or unique entertainment features, we will be unable to generate the revenues necessary to compete effectively in the competitive gaming product market. Consequently, the results of our operations could suffer. If our technologies for gaming products are subject to claims they infringe on competitors’ patents, trademark rights and design rights, we may be unable to market our products as planned, thus adversely affecting our profits. As technological capabilities and an ability to develop effective business plans are constantly becoming more crucial for success in the gaming business, it has become a critical business strategy for companies, especially in the United States, to ensure an advantage over competitors by filing and acquiring their own intellectual property rights such as patents, trademark rights and design rights in advance of their competitors. In this competitive business environment, we strive to commercialize our products only after carefully examining the intellectual property rights status of the products. However, if the contents of our new products and services are deemed to infringe on the intellectual property rights of competitors, we may be unable to bring such products or services to market or be forced to cease selling such products or services. An adverse change affecting the gaming and systems industries, including a change in the economy, in gaming regulations or in the expansion and popularity of casino gaming, will negatively impact our profitability and our potential for growth. Our ability to grow our business and operate profitably is substantially dependent upon the expansion of the gaming industry and factors that are beyond our control. These factors include, among others: • changes in the economy; • the pace of market expansion; • changes in gaming regulation; • fluctuations in popularity of casino gaming; and • changes in casino gaming tax rates instituted by national, state or province governments. An adverse change in any of these political, legal and other factors may negatively impact our results of operations. Our failure to obtain or retain required licenses for our Gaming & Systems segment could prevent us from expanding our market and prohibit us from generating revenue in certain jurisdictions. In North America, the manufacture and distribution of gaming products is subject to numerous federal, state, provincial, tribal, international and local regulations. In particular, we are subject to extensive regulation in the states of Arizona, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Florida, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Nevada, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Puerto Rico, Rhode Island, South Dakota, West Virginia, Wisconsin, and the Provinces of Alberta, British Columbia, Manitoba, Nova Scotia, Ontario, Quebec and Saskatchewan in Canada due to our gaming product business in those jurisdictions. In addition, we may also be subject to regulation as a gaming operator for participation agreements under which we share in the revenues generated by gaming machines. These regulations are constantly changing and evolving, and may curtail gaming in various jurisdictions in the future, which would decrease the number of jurisdictions from which we can generate revenues. Together with our key personnel, we undergo extensive investigation before each jurisdictional license is issued. Our gaming products are subjected to independent testing and evaluation prior to approval from each 16 Table of Contents jurisdiction in which we do business. Generally, legal authorities have broad discretion when granting, renewing or revoking these game approvals and licenses. Our failure to obtain or retain a required license or approval in one jurisdiction could negatively impact our ability to obtain or retain required licenses and approvals in other jurisdictions. The failure to obtain or retain a required license or approval in any jurisdiction would decrease the geographic areas where we may operate and generate revenues, decrease our share in the gaming marketplace and put us at a disadvantage compared with our competitors. Consequently, the market price of our common stock may suffer. Legal authorities may require shareholders to submit to background investigations and respond to questions from regulatory authorities, and may deny a license or revoke our licenses based upon their findings. These licensing procedures and background investigations may inhibit potential investors from becoming significant shareholders. The future revenue growth of our Gaming & Systems segment depends on our ability to strengthen our research and development departments and improve the effectiveness of our sales organizations and service departments. In order to increase market awareness and sales of our gaming products, it is important for us to develop hit products that are received favorably in our markets and for us to maintain technology that allows for future innovation and adaptations to changes in customer preferences. If we fail to assess market needs or be technologically innovative, our net revenues and operating income may be adversely affected. In addition, it is important for us to improve the effectiveness of our sales operations and service departments internationally. Our gaming business is expanding from sales of slot machines to sales of casino management systems, which connect gaming machines under a single accounting, marketing and customer management system and reinforcement of security. Casino management systems provide for relatively stable revenues, as proceeds from the initial sale are supplemented by subsequent connection fees. However, the sales of gaming products require sophisticated sales efforts targeted at selected people within the gaming industry and quality post-sale servicing. Competition for qualified sales personnel is intense, and we might not be able to hire the kind and number of sales personnel we are targeting. In addition, we will need to effectively train and educate our sales force and strengthen our service departments to ensure trust in our products if we are to be successful in selling into the gaming machine market. If our manufacturing plant in the United States has operational difficulties, and we have problems with manufacturing capacity and quality control, our business growth may be adversely affected. In June 2005, we started operation of a manufacturing plant in Las Vegas to strengthen production capacity and customer service and expand development and sales in the U.S. market. We depend on our manufacturing capacity for substantially all of our sales in the U.S. market. If operational troubles occur in this plant, we may be unable to maintain sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet increases in orders, and our financial performance may be adversely affected. Natural disasters such as the damage caused by the record rainfall in northeastern Australia in January 2011 and the surrounding areas of the Mississippi River in May 2011 could have material adverse effects on our Gaming & Systems segment. The record rainfall in the Australian northeastern region in January 2011 and in the surrounding areas of the Mississippi River in the U.S. in May 2011 raised concerns about a delay in transporting equipment to the casino markets where we ship our products. Similar natural disasters could adversely affect the future business results of our Gaming & Systems segment. 17 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Pachinko & Pachinko Slot Machines Segment Our pachinko slot machines may not pass the testing of the Security Association due to circumstances beyond our control, and as a result, there may be delays in the date of release. Further, due to the tightening of regulations on the pachinko business and establishment of a period of voluntary ban on replacement by the National Police Agency or the bankruptcy of our suppliers, pachinko slot machines which had passed the Security Association testing, and released or were scheduled for release, may not be able to be sold. Upon receipt of commission by a prefectural public safety commission, the Security Association conducts a regulatory check as to whether pachinko and pachinko slot machines fulfill prescribed conditions on the basis of documents submitted by the pachinko and pachinko slot makers, as well as the practical exam, as described below: 1. Pachinko and pachinko slot machine makers apply for the Security Association examination (application lots are determined by lottery). 2. In case the machines fail to pass 1., applicants must correct the parts which failed the examination, reapply, and upon passing, move on to 3. 3. The machines are inspected by a prefectural public safety commission. 4. The machines are set up in a pachinko hall, and the police ward with jurisdiction over the pachinko hall conducts an inspection. 5. Operation of the machines begins in the hall upon passing the test in 4. above. The date of release for a product may be delayed if reapplication becomes necessary in the process of the above procedures due to failure to gain an application lot, changes to the test standards or are tightening of regulations on the industry by the National Police Agency or other similar considerations. Our pachinko slot machines may be adversely affected because of groups attempting to make money through illicit methods (commonly referred to as goto-shi) in the pachinko and pachinko slot industry. Our pachinko slot machines may be adversely affected because of groups attempting to make money through illicit methods (commonly referred to as goto-shi) in the pachinko and pachinko slot industries. In the event of such manipulation by goto-shi, there may be a decline in sales volume due to the tarnishing of our brand image, and delays in the dates of release due to measures to prevent goto-shi manipulation of our other products. We may be adversely affected by natural disasters such as the Great East Japan Earthquake during fiscal 2011. Natural disaster such as the Great East Japan Earthquake may cause postponement of the release of our products, delays in shipment due to the disruption of distribution network, decreases in or cancellation of orders from facilities located in disaster-stricken areas, delays in delivery of parts procured from suppliers in the disaster-stricken areas and related revisions to our production system, as well as increases in procurement costs for parts and delays in procurement caused by increased scarcity of parts and inventory supply shortages in the market. Any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our business. Risks Relating to the Shares and the ADSs Our shareholders of record on a record date may not receive the dividend they anticipate The customary dividend payout practice of publicly listed companies in Japan may significantly differ from the practice widely followed in foreign markets. Our dividend payout practice is no exception. Pursuant to our Articles of Incorporation, our board of directors can determine the matters regarding dividends. While we may announce a dividend forecast prior to the record date of March 31, September 30, or such other date as we may set pursuant to our Articles of Incorporation, our board of directors is not legally bound by such forecast. Instead, 18 Table of Contents our board of directors ultimately determines the actual dividend payment amount to our shareholders of record on a record date, including whether we will make any dividend payment to such shareholders at all, after the expiry of such record date. Therefore, our shareholders of record on the March 31 record date may not receive the dividend they anticipate. Our share price is volatile and shareholders may not be able to recoup their investment. Disclosures of our operating results (particularly if below the estimates of securities industry analysts), announcements of various events by us or by our competitors or other industry participants or the development and marketing of new products, as well as other factors, may cause the market price of our common stock to change significantly over short periods of time. The price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile, and shareholders may not be able to recoup their investment. For example, the highs and lows of price per share of our common stock ranged from ¥1,535 to ¥2,423 during fiscal 2013. A substantial number of our shares of common stock are eligible for future sale, and the sale of these shares may cause the price of our common stock to decline even if our business is performing well. As of March 31, 2013, there were 138,618,060 shares of our common stock outstanding including 38,694,426 shares, representing 27.91% of our outstanding shares, beneficially owned by Kagemasa Kozuki, our founder, Representative Director, Chairman and his Kozuki Foundation for Sports and Education, Kozuki Holding and Kozuki Capital Corporation. These shares and, generally, the shares owned by other shareholders, can be disposed of on the Tokyo Stock Exchange or otherwise in Japan without any legal restriction. Additionally, under our Articles of Incorporation, our board of directors is authorized to issue 306,500,000 additional shares of common stock generally without any shareholder approval. In addition, as of March 31, 2013, we held 4,881,940 shares of treasury stock which our board of directors may sell without any shareholder approval. Additional sales of a substantial amount of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. This could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our securities. Also, in the future, we may issue common stock to raise cash for additional capital expenditures, working capital, research and development or acquisitions, and we may also pay for additional interests in subsidiaries or affiliated companies by using cash, common stock or both. We may also issue securities convertible into our common stock. Any of these events may dilute your ownership interest in us and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. Investors holding less than a unit of shares will have limited rights as shareholders. Pursuant to the Corporate Law of Japan relating to joint stock corporations and other related legislation, our Articles of Incorporation provide that 100 shares of common stock constitute one “unit”. The Corporate Law imposes significant restrictions and limitations on holdings of shares that do not constitute whole units. In general, holders of shares constituting less than one unit do not have the right to vote or to examine our books and records (other than our articles of incorporation and shareholders register). For a more complete description of the unit share system and its effect on the rights of holders of our shares, see Item 10.B “Unit Share System” below. There are restrictions on your ability to withdraw shares from the depositary receipt facility. Each ADS represents the right to receive one share of common stock. Each ADR will bear a legend to that effect. Holders of ADSs will be unable to withdraw fractions of shares from the depositary or receive any cash settlement in lieu of withdrawal of fractions of shares. Therefore, pursuant to the terms of the deposit agreement with our depositary, JPMorgan Chase Bank in order to withdraw any shares, a holder of ADSs must surrender for cancellation and withdrawal of shares, ADRs evidencing 100 ADSs or any integral multiple thereof. In addition, although the ADSs themselves may be transferred in any lots pursuant to the deposit agreement, the ability to trade the underlying shares may be limited. 19 Table of Contents Holders of ADRs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Holders of ADRs do not have the same rights as shareholders and accordingly cannot exercise rights of shareholders against us. JPMorgan Chase Bank, as depositary, through its custodian agent, is the registered shareholder of the deposited shares underlying the ADSs, and therefore only it can exercise the rights of shareholders in connection with the deposited shares. In certain cases, we may not ask JPMorgan Chase Bank to ask holders of ADSs for instructions as to how they wish their shares voted. Even if we ask JPMorgan Chase Bank to ask holders of ADSs for such instructions, it may not be possible for JPMorgan Chase Bank to obtain these instructions from ADS holders in time for JPMorgan Chase Bank to vote in accordance with such instructions. JPMorgan Chase Bank is only obliged to try, as far as practical, and subject to Japanese law and our Articles of Incorporation, to vote or have its agents vote the deposited shares as holders of ADSs instruct. In your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to bring a derivative action, examine the accounting books and records of the company, or exercise appraisal rights. Rights of shareholders under Japanese law may be more limited than under the laws of other jurisdictions. Our Articles of Incorporation, our board of directors’ Regulations and the Corporate Law of Japan govern our corporate affairs. Legal principles relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, directors’ fiduciary duties and liabilities, and shareholders’ rights may be different from those that would apply to a non-Japanese company. Shareholders’ rights under Japanese law may not be as extensive as shareholders’ rights under the laws of other countries or jurisdictions within the United States. You may have more difficulty in asserting your rights as a shareholder than you would as a shareholder of a corporation organized in another jurisdiction. Because of daily price range limitations under Japanese stock exchange rules, you may not be able to sell your shares of our common stock at a particular price on any particular trading day, or at all. Stock prices on Japanese stock exchanges are determined on a real-time basis by the equilibrium between bids and offers. These exchanges are order-driven markets without specialists or market makers to guide price formation. To prevent excessive volatility, these exchanges set daily upward and downward price fluctuation limits for each stock, based on the previous day’s closing price. Although transactions may continue at the upward or downward limit price if the limit price is reached on a particular trading day, no transactions may take place outside these limits. Consequently, an investor wishing to sell at a price above or below the relevant daily limit may not be able to sell his or her shares at such price on a particular trading day, or at all. U.S. investors may have difficulty in serving process or enforcing a judgment against us or our directors, corporate officers or corporate auditors. We are a limited liability, joint-stock corporation incorporated under the laws of Japan. Most of our directors, corporate officers and corporate auditors reside in Japan. All or substantially all of our assets and the assets of these persons are located in Japan and elsewhere outside the United States. It may not be possible, therefore, for U.S. investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or these persons or to enforce against us or these persons judgments obtained in U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. There is a concern as to the enforceability in Japan, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgment of U.S. courts, of liabilities predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States. Foreign exchange fluctuations may affect the dollar value of our ADSs and dividends payable to holders of our ADSs. Market prices for our ADSs may fall if the value of the yen declines against the U.S. dollar. In addition, the U.S. dollar amount of cash dividends and other cash payments made to holders of our ADSs would be reduced if the value of the yen declines against the U.S. dollar. 20 Table of Contents 