Item 1A. RISK FACTORS § Significant increases in the cost of energy or raw materials could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s margins and income from operations. Increases in paper costs, which represent a significant portion of our raw material costs, and any decrease in availability of paper could adversely affect our business. § We have been dependent on certain customers, the loss of which could have material adverse effects on product sales and, depending on the significance of the loss, our results of operations, financial condition or cash flow. The Company’s ability to generate cash flows is dependent, in significant part, on its ability to reestablish growth in sales volume and maintain or increase selling prices that it realizes for its products. § The Company’s ability to successfully implement its business strategies, its efforts to expand its markets for print services and to realize anticipated savings is subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. § The Company faces intense competition, and if it is unable to compete successfully against other manufacturers of paperboard, cartons, commercial print, or provider of print services, it could lose customers and its revenue may decline. § The Company’s net sales and profitability could be affected by intense pricing pressures. If the Company’s facilities are not as cost efficient as those of its competitors, or if its competitors otherwise choose to lower prices, the Company may lose customers to its competitors, which could negatively impact its revenue, cash flows and financial condition. § Delays in our plans to improve manufacturing productivity and control costs of operations could negatively impact our margins. § Any prolonged disruption in production due to labor difficulties, equipment failures, destruction of or material damage to any of the Company’s facilities could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s net sales, margins and cash flows. § If we cannot protect our reputation due to product quality and liability issues, our business could be harmed. § We are dependent on key management personnel. We cannot be certain that we will be able to retain our executive officers and key personnel or attract additional qualified management in the future. § Work stoppages and other labor relations matters may make it substantially more difficult or expensive for the Company to manufacture and distribute its products, which could result in decreased sales or increased costs, either of which would negatively impact its financial condition and results of operations. § The Company is subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, and costs to comply with such laws and regulations, or any liability or obligation imposed under such laws or regulations, could negatively impact its financial condition and results of operations. § The Company may unknowingly, or inadvertently violate the intellectual property rights of others as it innovates new ways to capture, aggregate, process and print orders from the internet which could result in the payment of damages or injunctions which could interfere with the Company’s business. § The Company may not be able to adequately protect and defend its intellectual property and proprietary rights, which could harm its future success and competitive position. § The Company has incurred operating losses over the past two years, and may not be profitable in 2008. These losses have resulted principally from a reduction in sales due to the loss of a significant customer, VistaPrint Limited. In the event the Company is not unable to increase sales and/or reduce costs to offset the loss of this customer, its operating losses are likely to continue. § Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions, which can be caused by: outbreaks of hostilities or other geopolitical instability; declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation, interest rates, exchange rate volatility, default rates or the price of basic commodities; corporate, political or other scandals that reduce investor confidence in capital markets; natural disasters or pandemics; or a combination of these or other factors, may adversely affect, our business and profitability. 6 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 