Item 1A. RISK FACTORS • Significant increases in the cost of energy or raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our margins and income from operations. Increases in paper costs, which represent a significant portion of our raw material costs, and any decrease in availability of paper could adversely affect our business. • A significant amount of paperboard is scrapped as a result of normal operations. Virtually all paperboard waste is sold to third party recyclers. Changes in the recycled paperboard market may have an impact on our profitability. • We have been dependent on certain customers, the loss of which could have material adverse effects on product sales and, depending on the significance of the loss, our results of operations, financial condition or cash flow. Our two largest customers accounted for 26.3% of total revenues in 2009. Our ability to generate cash flows is dependent, in significant part, on our ability to re-establish growth in sales volume and maintain or increase selling prices that we realize for our products. • Our ability to successfully implement our business strategies, our efforts to expand our markets for print services and to realize anticipated savings is subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. • The current economic environment and the reduced availability of credit may have decreased the financial stability of our major customers and suppliers. As a result, it may become more difficult for us to collect our accounts receivable and outsource products and services from our suppliers. If any of these conditions were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. • Certain cash balances with our bank may only be insured up to $250,000 by the FDIC, therefore any amounts in excess of this limit may be subject to risk. • We face intense competition, and if we are unable to compete successfully against other manufacturers of paperboard, custom folding cartons, stock packaging and personalized print, we could lose customers and our revenues may decline. • Our net sales and profitability could be affected by intense pricing pressures. If our facility is not as cost efficient as those of our competitors, or if our competitors otherwise choose to lower prices, we may lose customers, which could negatively impact our revenue, cash flows and financial condition. 5 • Delays in our plans to improve manufacturing productivity and control costs of operations could negatively impact our margins. • Any prolonged disruption in production due to equipment failures, destruction of, or material damage to any of our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our net sales, margins and cash flows. • Work stoppages and other labor relations matters may make it substantially more difficult or expensive for us to manufacture and distribute our products, which could result in decreased sales or increased costs, either of which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. • If we cannot protect our reputation due to product quality and liability issues, our business could be harmed. • We are dependent on key management personnel. We cannot be certain that we will be able to retain our executive officers and key personnel or attract additional qualified management in the future. • We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, and costs to comply with such laws and regulations, or any liability or obligation imposed under such laws or regulations, could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. • We may unknowingly, or inadvertently violate the intellectual property rights of others as we innovate new ways to capture, aggregate, process and print orders from the internet which could result in the payment of damages or injunctions which could interfere with our business. • We may not be able to adequately protect and defend our intellectual property and proprietary rights, which could harm our future success and competitive position. • We have incurred operating losses over the past four years, and may not be profitable in 2010. In the event we are unable to increase sales and/or reduce costs, our operating losses are likely to continue. • Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions, which can be caused by: outbreaks of hostilities or other geopolitical instability; declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation, interest rates, exchange rate volatility, default rates or the price of basic commodities; corporate, political or other scandals that reduce investor confidence in capital markets; natural disasters or pandemics; or a combination of these or other factors, may adversely affect our business and profitability. • New legislation, specifically the Employee Free Choice Act, may be passed which would increase the ability for unions to organize employees of non-unionized businesses such as MOD-PAC. This could have a negative impact on our relations with our employees. • An impairment of our fixed assets could negatively impact our financial condition. Although this write-off would be a non-cash charge, it could significantly reduce our earnings and net worth. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 