D. Risk Factors” and the following: • any changes in the regulatory policies of the Ministry of Information Industry and other relevant government authorities relating to, among other matters: - the granting and approval of licenses; - tariff policies; - interconnection and settlement arrangements; - capital investment priorities; - the provision of telephone services to rural areas in China; and - numbering resources allocation; • the effects of competition on the demand for and price of our services; • any potential restructuring of the PRC telecommunication industry; Table of Contents • the development of new technologies and applications or services affecting our current and future businesses; • changes in political, economic, legal and social conditions in China, including the Chinese government’s specific policies with respect to foreign investment in and entry by foreign companies into China’s telecommunications industry, economic growth, inflation, foreign exchange and the availability of credit; and • changes in population growth and gross domestic product, or GDP, growth and the impact of those changes on the demand for our services. CERTAIN DEFINITIONS AND CONVENTIONS As used in this annual report, references to “us”, “we”, the “Company” and “China Telecom” are to China Telecom Corporation Limited and all of its consolidated subsidiaries except where we make clear that the term means China Telecom Corporation Limited or a particular subsidiary or business group only. References to matters relating to our H shares or American depositary shares, or ADSs, or matters of corporate governance are to the H shares, ADSs and corporate governance of China Telecom Corporation Limited. In respect of any time prior to our incorporation, references to “us”, “we” and “China Telecom” are to the telecommunications businesses in which our predecessors were engaged and which were subsequently assumed by us. All references to “China Telecom Group” are to China Telecommunications Corporation, our controlling shareholder. Unless the context otherwise requires, these references include all of its subsidiaries, including us and our subsidiaries. PART I Item 1. Identity of Directors, Senior Management and Advisers. Not applicable. Item 2. Offer Statistics and Expected Timetable. Not applicable. Item 3. Key Information. A. Selected Financial Data The following table presents our selected financial data. The selected balance sheet data as of December 31, 2004 and 2005, and the selected income statement and cash flow data for each of the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report, and should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and operating and financial review and prospects included elsewhere in this annual report. The selected balance sheet data as of December 31, 2001, 2002 and 2003 and the selected income statement and cash flow data for each of the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2002 are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements, which are not included in this annual report. Our audited consolidated financial statements are prepared and presented in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, or IFRS, which differ in certain significant respects from accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or US GAAP. Information relating to the nature and effect of significant differences between IFRS and US GAAP, as they relate to us for the periods described therein, is presented in Note 36 to the audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. The selected financial data reflect the restructuring in 2001, the acquisitions in 2003 and 2004 described under “