1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are certain risks and uncertainties that affect our business and that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by forward-looking statements we may make in our press releases, conference calls and other communications with our investors, and in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including those contained in this Report. The occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. In that case, the market price of our common stock could decline, and stockholders may lose all or part of their investment. The markets and economic environment in which we compete is constantly changing, and it is not possible to predict or identify all the potential risk factors. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we do not currently consider to be material could also impair our operations. We are dependent on retaining our experts to keep our existing clients and ongoing and future projects, and our financial results and growth prospects could suffer if we are unable to successfully attract and retain our experts and professional staff. Many of our clients are attracted to us by their desire to engage individual experts, and the ongoing relationship with our clients is often managed primarily by our individual experts. If an expert terminates his or her relationship with us, it is probable that most of the clients and projects for which that expert is responsible will continue with the expert, and the clients will terminate or significantly reduce their relationship with us. We generally do not have non-competition agreements with any of our experts, unless the expert came to us through an acquisition of a business. Consequently, experts can generally terminate their relationship with us at any time and immediately begin to compete against 15 Table of Contents us. Our top five experts accounted for 15%, 17% and 17% of our revenues in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. If any of these individuals, our other experts terminate their relationship with us or compete against us, it could materially harm our business and financial results. In addition, if we are unable to attract, develop, and retain highly qualified experts, professional staff and administrative personnel, our ability to adequately manage and staff our existing projects and obtain new projects could be impaired, which would adversely affect our business, our financial results and our prospects for growth. Qualified professionals are in great demand, and we face significant competition for both experts and professional staff with the requisite credentials and experience. Our competition comes from other consulting firms, research firms, governments, universities and other similar enterprises. Many of these competitors may be able to offer greater compensation and benefits or more attractive lifestyle choices, career paths or geographic locations than we do. Increasing competition for these professionals may also significantly increase our labor costs, which could negatively affect our margins and results of operations. The loss of services from, or the failure to recruit, a significant number of experts, professional staff or administrative personnel could harm our business, including our ability to secure and complete new projects. Our financial results could suffer if we are unable to achieve or maintain high utilization and billing rates for our professional staff. Our profitability depends to a large extent on the utilization of our professional staff and the billing rates we are able to charge for their services. Utilization of our professional staff is affected by a number of factors, including: •the number and size of client engagements; •our experts' use of professional staff to perform the projects they obtain from clients and the nature of specific client engagements, some of which require greater professional staff involvement than others; •the timing of the commencement, completion and termination of projects, which in many cases is unpredictable; •our ability to transition our professional staff efficiently from completed projects to new engagements; •our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain an appropriate level of professional staff; and •conditions affecting the industries in which we practice as well as general economic conditions. The billing rates of our professional staff that we are able to charge are also affected by a number of additional factors, including: •the quality of our expert services; •the market demand for the expert services we provide; •our competition and the pricing policies of our competitors; and •general economic conditions. Forecasting demand for our services and managing staffing levels and transitions in the face of the uncertainties in engagement demand is quite difficult, especially during the current U.S. and European economic slow-down. If we are unable to achieve and maintain high utilization as well as maintain or increase the billing rates for our billable professional staff, our financial results could suffer materially. 16 Table of Contents We rely on our credit facility to provide us with sufficient working capital to operate our business. Historically, we have relied upon our revolving credit facility ("Facility") to provide us with adequate working capital to operate our business. The current economic downturn adds uncertainty to our revenue levels and cash flow from operations, which may increase our dependence on our Facility, but also increases the likelihood we may fall out of compliance with our debt covenants. Non-compliance with those covenants could result in our lenders restricting or terminating our borrowing ability, accelerating the time for repayment of outstanding borrowings, or increasing the cost of borrowing under the Facility. If our lenders reduce or terminate our access to amounts under our Facility, we may not have sufficient capital to fund our operating needs and/or we may need to secure additional financing to fund our working capital requirements or to repay outstanding debt under our Facility. Lenders may be less flexible and willing to provide waivers or to extend credit in the current economic downturn than they have been historically. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in complying with our covenants or maintaining the availability to us of amounts under our Facility or, if necessary, that we will be able to raise additional capital, or that any amount, if raised, will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements. Also, if we are not able to maintain our borrowing availability under our Facility and/or raise additional capital when needed, we may be forced to curtail our operations. Recent turmoil in the credit markets and in the financial services industry may impact our ability to collect receivables on a timely basis and may negatively impact our cash flow. Recently, the credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval. While the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, they could adversely impact the availability of financing and working capital to our clients and therefore adversely impact our ability to collect amounts due from such clients or cause them to terminate their contracts with us completely. Our client projects may be terminated or initiated suddenly, which may negatively impact our financial results. Our projects generally center on decisions, disputes, proceedings or transactions in which clients are seeking expert advice and opinions. Our projects can terminate suddenly and without advance notice to us. Our clients may decide at any time to settle their disputes or proceedings, to abandon or defer their transactions or to take other actions that result in the early termination of a project. Our clients are ordinarily under no contractual obligation to continue using our services. If an engagement is terminated unexpectedly, or even upon the planned completion of a project, our professionals working on that engagement may be underutilized until we assign and transition them to other projects. The termination, deferral or significant reduction in the scope of a single large engagement could negatively impact our results of operations in a given reporting period. Conversely, projects may be initiated or expanded suddenly, and we may not be able to adequately manage the demands placed upon our experts and staff when that occurs. This could result in inefficiencies and additional time spent on engagements by our experts and staff that we may not be able to bill and collect. For example, in 2006 and 2007 we experienced a significant increase in work performed that we considered uncollectible, a part of which was the result of our failure to successfully manage certain engagements. If we are unable to successfully manage the requirements and time spent by experts and staff on engagements, our financial results may be adversely impacted. 17 Table of Contents Our ability to maintain and attract new business depends upon our reputation, the professional reputation of our experts and the quality of our services on client projects. Our ability to secure new projects depends heavily upon our reputation and the individual reputations of our experts. Any factor that diminishes our reputation or that of our experts could make it substantially more difficult for us to attract new projects and clients. Similarly, because we obtain many of our new projects from clients that we have worked with in the past or from referrals by those clients, any client that is dissatisfied with the quality of our work or that of our experts could seriously impair our ability to secure additional new projects and clients. In litigation, we believe that there has been an increase in the frequency of challenges made by opposing parties to the qualifications of experts. In the event a court or other decision-maker determines that an expert is not qualified to serve as an expert witness in a particular matter, then this determination could harm the expert's reputation and ability to act as an expert in other engagements which could in turn harm our business reputation and our ability to obtain new engagements. The implementation of our 2008 and 2007 restructuring activities, which has involved workforce reductions and office closures, may not successfully achieve improved long-term operating results. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we implemented a number of restructuring actions intended to better align our cost structure with current business levels and market conditions. In connection with the restructuring actions, we incurred charges totaling $6.4 million during the fourth quarter of 2008, including one-time termination benefits, write-offs of unearned signing bonuses, and lease termination costs. During 2007, as part of our 2007 value recovery plan, we incurred restructuring charges totaling $10.7 million, including one-time termination benefits, write-offs of unearned signing and performance bonuses and expert advances, and lease termination costs. As a result of these restructuring actions, our fee-generating head count was reduced, and the employment of some experts and professional staff with unique skills was terminated. In the future, other experts and employees may leave our company voluntarily due to the uncertainties associated with our business environment and their job security, and we have experienced and may continue to experience morale issues. In addition, we may lose revenue and miss opportunities to generate revenue and we may not achieve the improved longer-term operating results that we anticipated. Any of these consequences may harm our business and our future results of operations. Our estimated restructuring accruals may not be adequate. While our management uses all available information to estimate restructuring charges, particularly facilities costs, our estimated accruals for restructuring related to our 2008 activities and the 2007 value recovery plan may prove to be inadequate. If our actual sublease revenues or the results of our exiting negotiations differ from our assumptions, we may have to record additional charges, which could materially affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flow. Impairment charges could reduce our results of operations. In accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, we test goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for impairment on an annual basis or on an interim basis if an event occurs that might reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below its carrying value. We conduct testing for impairment during the fourth quarter of each year using an October 1st measurement date. Various uncertainties, including changes in business trends, deterioration in the political environment, continued adverse conditions in the capital markets or changes in general economic conditions, could impact the expected cash flows to be generated by an intangible asset or group of intangible assets, and may result in an impairment of those assets. For example, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $118.8 million and other 18 Table of Contents impairment charges of $5.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Although any such impairment charge would be a non-cash expense, further impairment of our intangible assets could materially increase our expenses and reduce our results of operations. Changes in our effective tax rate may harm our results of operations. A number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including: •the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; •the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; •changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; •adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; •increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; •changes in available tax credits or limitations on our ability to utilize foreign tax credits; •changes in share-based compensation; •changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and •the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods If we are unable to manage the growth of our business successfully, our financial results and business prospects could suffer. Over the past several years we experienced significant growth in the number of our experts and professional staff. We also expanded our practice areas and opened offices in new locations. We may not be able to successfully manage a significantly larger and more geographically diverse workforce as we increase the number of our experts and professional staff and expand our practice areas. In 2008 and 2007 we recognized restructuring charges net of adjustments of $5.9 million and $10.7 million, respectively, primarily related to the termination of experts and professional staff who were generally direct hires in new practice areas during the past two years. We also closed two and eight facilities during 2008 and 2007, respectively. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, we experienced increased and sometimes unplanned selling, general and administrative costs. In addition, growth increases the demands on our management, our internal systems, procedures and controls. To successfully manage growth and maintain our capability of complying with existing and new regulatory requirements, we must add administrative staff and periodically update and strengthen our operating, financial and other systems, procedures and controls, which will increase our costs and may reduce our profitability. There are certain key personnel that have developed over time a deep institutional knowledge of, and have helped shape and implement our expert compensation models, including developing the financial and operational support systems and contractual agreements necessary to administer their complexities. This institutional knowledge has been an essential element in our ability to respond to the demands imposed by our growth. 19 Table of Contents In 2006, we reported a material weakness in connection with the calculation of certain complex, non-standard compensation arrangements and business acquisition performance-based agreements. At December 31, 2007, we had remediated that material weakness. However, as we acquire new businesses in the future we will need to properly and timely manage the accounting for the acquisition and compensation arrangements, and integrate their financial reporting systems into ours, including our disclosure controls and procedures. We may be unable to successfully implement changes and make improvements to our information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner and we may discover additional deficiencies in our existing systems and controls. Any failure to successfully manage growth, retain key administrative personnel, and maintain adequate internal disclosure controls and procedures or controls over financial reporting, could result in the identification of additional material weaknesses in our controls which could harm our financial results and business prospects. Additional hiring and acquisitions could disrupt our operations, increase our costs or otherwise harm our business. A portion of our business strategy is dependent in part upon our ability to grow by hiring individuals or groups of experts and by acquiring other expert services firms. However, we may be unable to identify, hire, acquire or successfully integrate new experts and consulting practices without substantial expense, delay or other operational or financial problems. And, we may be unable to achieve the financial, operational and other benefits we anticipate from any hiring or acquisition. Hiring additional experts or acquiring other expert services firms could also involve a number of additional risks, including: •the diversion of management's and key senior experts' time, attention and resources, especially since key senior experts involved in the recruiting and acquisition process also provide consulting services that account for a significant amount of our revenues; •loss of key acquisition related personnel; •the incurrence of significant signing and performance bonuses, which could adversely impact our profitability and cash flow, or result in the later write-off of unearned portions of such bonus, which could adversely impact our profitability; •additional expenses associated with the amortization, impairment or write-off of acquired intangible assets, which could adversely impact our profitability; •potential assumption of debt to acquire businesses; •potential impairment of existing relationships with our experts, professionals and clients; •the creation of conflicts of interest that require us to decline engagements that we otherwise could have accepted; •increased costs to improve, coordinate or integrate managerial, operational, financial and administrative systems; •increased costs associated with the opening and build-out of new offices, redundant offices in the same city where consolidation is not immediately possible or office closures where consolidation is possible, which would result in the immediate recognition of expense associated with the abandoned lease; •dilution to our stockholders as a result of issuing equity securities in connection with hiring new experts or acquiring other expert services firms; and •difficulties in integrating diverse corporate cultures. 20 Table of Contents We depend on complex damages and competition policy/antitrust practices, which could be adversely affected by changes in the legal, regulatory and economic environment. Our business is heavily concentrated in the practice areas of complex damages and competition policy/antitrust, including mergers and acquisitions. Projects in our complex damages practice area account for 23%, 20%, and 23% of our billings in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Projects in our competition policy/antitrust practice area, including mergers and acquisitions, accounted for 18%, 18%, and 21% of our billings in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Changes in the federal antitrust laws or the federal regulatory environment, or changes in judicial interpretations of these laws could substantially reduce the need for expert consulting services in these areas. This would reduce our revenues and the number of future projects in these practice areas. In addition, adverse changes in general economic conditions, particularly conditions influencing the merger and acquisition activity of larger companies, could also negatively impact the number and scope of our projects in proceedings before the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission. Intense competition from economic, business and financial consulting firms could hurt our business. The market for expert consulting services is intensely competitive, highly fragmented and subject to rapid change. Many of our competitors are national and international in scope and have significantly greater personnel, financial, technical and marketing resources. We may be unable to compete successfully with our existing competitors or with any new competitors. There are relatively low barriers to entry, and we have faced and expect to continue to face additional competition from new entrants into the economic, business and financial consulting industries. In the litigation and regulatory expert services markets, we compete primarily with economic, business and financial consulting firms and individual academics. Expert services are also available from a variety of participants in the business consulting market, including general management consulting firms, the consulting practices of major accounting firms, technical and economic advisory firms, regional and specialty consulting firms, small consulting companies and the internal professional resources of companies. Conflicts of interest could preclude us from accepting projects. We provide our services primarily in connection with significant or complex decisions, disputes and regulatory proceedings that are often adversarial or involve sensitive client information. Our engagement by a given client may preclude us from accepting projects with that client's competitors or adversaries because of conflicts of interest or other business reasons. As we increase the size of our operations, the number of conflict situations can be expected to increase. Moreover, in many industries in which we provide services, for example the petroleum and telecommunications industries, there has been a continuing trend toward business consolidations and strategic alliances, the impact of which is to reduce the number of companies that may seek our services and to increase the chances that we will be unable to accept new projects as a result of conflicts of interest. If we are unable to accept new assignments for any reason, our business may not grow and our professional staff may become underutilized, which would adversely affect our revenues and results of operations in future periods. Our engagements could result in professional liability, which could be very costly and hurt our reputation. Our projects typically involve complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment. As a result, we are subject to the risk of professional liability. Many of our projects involve matters that could have a severe impact on a client's business, cause a client to gain or lose significant amounts of money or assist or prevent a client from pursuing desirable business opportunities. If a client questions the quality of our work, the client could threaten or bring a lawsuit to recover damages or contest its obligation to pay our fees. Litigation alleging that we performed negligently or breached any other obligations to a client could expose us to significant liabilities and damage our reputation. We carry professional liability insurance intended to cover many of these types of claims, but the policy limits 21 Table of Contents and the breadth of coverage may be inadequate to cover any particular claim or all claims plus the cost of legal defense. For example, we provide services on engagements in which the amounts in controversy or the impact on a client may substantially exceed the limits of our errors and omissions insurance coverage. If we are found to have professional liability with respect to work performed on such an engagement, we may not have sufficient insurance to cover the entire liability. Defending ourselves in any litigation, regardless of the outcome, is often very costly, could result in distractions to our management and experts and could harm our business and our reputation. We are subject to additional risks associated with international operations. We currently have operations in Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Canada, France, Hong Kong, Italy, Mexico, New Zealand, Spain and the United Kingdom. Revenues attributable to activities outside of the United States, were 23%, 17%, and 14% in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Foreign tax laws can be complex and disputes with foreign tax authority can be lengthy and span multiple years. We have been involved in a tax dispute with the Argentine tax authority since 2007 regarding a potential income tax deficiency related to our 2003 and 2004 tax returns and a withholding tax deficiency in connection with our 2005 withholding tax return totaling approximately $3.3 million, which includes potential interest if our position is not ultimately sustained. We paid this amount and filed an appeal with the tax authorities, objecting to their position and requesting a refund. However, we may also be subject to penalties if our position is not ultimately sustained, and may receive additional notices for income and withholding deficiencies for 2005 and 2006 for the same issues noted by the Argentine tax authority during their audit of our 2003 and 2004 income tax returns and our 2005 withholding tax returns. We may continue to expand internationally and our international revenues may account for an increasing portion of our revenues in the future. In addition to the tax dispute noted above, our international operations carry special financial and business risks, including: •greater difficulties in managing and staffing foreign operations; •less stable political and economic environments; •cultural differences that adversely affect utilization; •currency fluctuations that adversely affect our financial position and operating results; •unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers; •civil disturbances or other catastrophic events that reduce business activity; and •greater difficulties in collecting accounts receivable. The occurrence of any one of these factors could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our disputes with National Economic Research Associates, Inc. could harm our business and financial results. In June 2004, National Economic Research Associates, Inc., or NERA, and its parent company, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc., filed a complaint against us and one of our experts. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings for further details. A decision against us in this matter could harm our financial results and financial position. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. The price of our common stock has fluctuated widely and may continue to do so, depending upon many factors, including but not limited to the risk factors listed above and the following: •the limited trading volume of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market; 22 Table of Contents •variations in our quarterly results of operations; •the hiring or departure of key personnel, including experts; •our ability to maintain high utilization of our professional staff; •announcements by us or our competitors; •the loss of significant clients; •changes in our reputation or the reputations of our experts; •acquisitions or strategic alliances involving us or our competitors; •changes in the legal and regulatory environment affecting businesses to which we provide services; •changes in estimates of our performance or recommendations by securities analysts; •inability to meet quarterly or yearly estimates or targets of our performance; and •market conditions in the industry and the economy as a whole. The issuance of preferred stock could discourage or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our board of directors has the authority to issue preferred stock and to determine the preferences, limitations and relative rights of shares of preferred stock and to fix the number of shares constituting any series and the designation of such series, without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The preferred stock could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to the rights of our common stock. The potential issuance of preferred stock may make it more difficult for a person to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock, and thereby delay or prevent a change in control of us, discourage bids for our common stock over the market price and adversely affect the market price and the relative voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. Our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent a takeover that stockholders consider favorable and could also reduce the market price of our stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. For example, our charter documents prohibit stockholder actions by written consent. In addition, the provisions of Section 203 of Delaware General Corporate Law govern us. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and under Delaware law could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in the market price being lower than it would be without these provisions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 