Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Properties We have experienced rapid growth and may not be able to adapt our management and operational systems to respond to the integration of these properties without unanticipated disruption or expense. As a result of the rapid growth of our portfolio, we may not be able to adapt our management, administrative, accounting and operational systems, or hire and retain sufficient operational staff to integrate these properties into our portfolio without operating disruptions or unanticipated costs. Further, although at a reduced pace, we continue to acquire additional properties which generate additional operating expenses that we would be required to pay. As we acquire additional properties, we will be subject to risks associated with managing new properties, including tenant retention and mortgage default. Our failure to successfully integrate these properties into our portfolio could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to shareholders at historical levels or at all. If we are unable to acquire additional properties through our relationships with financial institutions or otherwise, our ability to execute our business plan and our operating results could be adversely affected. One of our key business strategies is to capitalize on our relationships with financial institutions to acquire additional office buildings and bank branches through formulated price contracts and other structured purchase agreements. Typically, our formulated price contracts may be terminated without cause upon 90 days or less written notice. Moreover, these agreements only cover surplus bank branches and do not cover each bank’s core office buildings and branches. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire desirable office buildings and bank branches and execute our business strategy. Other than these formulated price contracts, the financial institutions that we have relationships with have no ongoing contractual obligation to sell any of their real estate to us. If we fail to maintain our formulated price contracts or if there is a disruption in any of our key relationships with financial institutions, we may be unable to execute our business plan, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to shareholders at historical levels or at all. If we are unable to acquire additional properties from banks as a result of changes in banking laws and regulations or trends in the banking industry, we may be unable to execute our business plan and our operating results could be adversely affected. Changes in current laws and regulations governing banks’ ability to invest in real estate beyond that necessary for the transaction of bank business and changing trends in the banking industry may affect banks’ strategies with respect to the ownership and disposition of real estate. For example, banks may decide, based on these changes or other reasons, to retain much of their real estate, sell their bank branches to another financial institution, redevelop properties or otherwise determine not to sell properties to us. In addition, if our relationships with financial institutions deteriorate or we are unable to maintain these relationships or develop additional relationships, we may be unable to acquire additional properties. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current rate of growth by acquiring properties acceptable to us in the future. If we are unable to acquire additional properties from financial institutions, we may be unable to execute our business 11 Table of Contents plan, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to shareholders at historical levels or at all. If we are unable to execute on the strategic repositioning plan that we announced in August 2006, our operating results could be adversely affected. An essential part of our announced strategic repositioning plan is the sale of $1.5 to $2.0 billion in assets that are off-strategy, non-core to our customer relationships or which represent a drag on shareholder value. If we are unable to timely or at all meet our asset disposition targets, we will not be able to fully execute the capital recycling portion of our strategic repositioning strategy. The key element of this plan is the rationalization of our liabilities by reducing our total debt to asset ratio to 60-65%, which reduction depends in large part on the application of proceeds from our strategic sales to the repayment of debt with high interest rates or debt service constants. Additionally, even if we meet our asset disposition targets, there is no guarantee that our capital recycling plan will yield the anticipated benefits. The success of our capital recycling plan and our repositioning plan as a whole depend on the successful re-deployment of our capital, and if we are not successful in such redeployment, we may achieve operating results that are worse than we would have achieved otherwise. Our failure to adequately meet the objectives of our strategic repositioning plan could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to shareholders at historical levels or at all. With limited exceptions, we acquire properties on an “as is” basis and, therefore, the value of these properties may decline if we discover problems with the properties after we acquire them. We often acquire properties on an “as is” basis. We may receive limited representations, warranties and indemnities from the sellers and, in certain cases, we may be required to indemnify the sellers for certain matters, including environmental matters, in connection with our acquisition of such properties. In addition, pursuant to our formulated price contracts with various banks, we may be required to purchase properties that have environmental conditions, provided the seller agrees, depending on the terms of the relevant formulated price contract, to either (i) investigate or remediate the environmental conditions, (ii) deduct the mutually agreed cost of remediation from the purchase price or (iii) indemnify us for the costs of investigating or remediating the environmental conditions, which indemnity may be limited. If we discover issues or problems related to the physical condition of a property, zoning, compliance with ordinances and regulations or other significant problems after we acquire the property, we typically have no recourse against the seller and the value of the property may be less than the amount we paid for such property. We may incur substantial costs in remediating or repairing a property that we acquire or in ensuring its compliance with governmental regulations. These capital expenditures would reduce cash available for distribution to our shareholders. In addition, we may be unable to rent these properties on terms favorable to us, or at all. If we are unable to complete in a timely fashion or at all our contracts for property acquisitions and dispositions, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our ability to complete our contracts for property acquisitions is dependent upon many factors, such as satisfaction of due diligence and customary closing conditions and our ability to obtain sufficient debt financing. Likewise, our ability to complete our property dispositions are dependent upon similar factors, some of which are beyond our control such as the purchaser’s ability to obtain sufficient debt financing. Our inability to complete these acquisitions and dispositions within our anticipated time frame or at all could have a material adverse effect on our results and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to shareholders at historical levels or at all. Our use of debt financing and our substantial existing debt obligations may decrease our cash flow and put us at a competitive disadvantage. We have incurred, and expect to incur in the future, debt to fund the acquisition of properties. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $2,439.8 million of outstanding indebtedness, which includes the aggregate principal amount of our convertible notes of $450.0 million and outstanding advances under our secured credit facility of $212.6 million. Increases in interest rates on our existing variable rate indebtedness would increase our interest expense, which could harm our cash flow and our ability to pay dividends. If we 12 Table of Contents incur additional indebtedness, debt service requirements would increase accordingly, which could further adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, our cash available for distribution to shareholders and our equity value. In addition, increased leverage could increase the risk of our default on debt obligations, which could ultimately result in loss of properties through foreclosure. Since we anticipate that our cash from operations will be insufficient to repay all of our indebtedness prior to maturity we expect that we will be required to repay debt through refinancings, financing of unencumbered properties, sale of properties or the sale of additional equity. As of December 31, 2006, we will have to refinance or repay an aggregate amount of approximately $178.6 million during the year ending December 31, 2007. This amount includes: (i) a balloon payment of approximately $50.0 million for the mortgage loan secured by our 123 S. Broad St. — Unit 2 property, which matures in October 2007; (ii) $16.4 million due in January 2007 on our short term bridge facility secured by our Bank of Oklahoma Plaza property; and (iii) $80.7 million on our secured facility secured by properties that, during 2007, will have been collateral for this facility for a period of 18 months. On January 31, 2007, we repaid the $16.4 million balance on our short term bridge facility with proceeds from our sale of our interest in State Street Financial Center. The amount of our existing indebtedness may adversely affect our ability to repay debt through refinancings. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms, or at all, we might be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties on unfavorable terms, which might result in losses to us and which might adversely affect cash available for distributions to shareholders. If prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates on refinancing, interest expense would increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to shareholders at historical levels or at all. We also will likely incur additional debt in connection with future acquisitions of real estate. We may borrow under our credit facilities or otherwise borrow new funds to acquire properties. In addition, we may incur or increase our mortgage debt by obtaining loans secured by a portfolio of some or all of the real estate we acquire. We may also borrow funds if necessary to satisfy the requirement that we distribute to shareholders at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income, or otherwise as is necessary or advisable to ensure that we maintain our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Our substantial debt and any increases in our debt may harm our business and our financial results by, among other things: • requiring us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest, which reduces the amount available for operation of our properties or for the payment of dividends; • resulting in violation of restrictive covenants in our loan documents, which would entitle the lenders to accelerate our debt obligations; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; • making us more vulnerable to economic and industry downturns and reducing our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions; • requiring us to sell one or more properties, possibly on unfavorable terms; and • limiting our ability to borrow funds for operations or to finance acquisitions in the future or to refinance our existing indebtedness at maturity on terms as or more favorable than the terms of the original indebtedness. Our reported earnings per share may be more volatile because of the conversion contingency provision of our senior convertible notes. In October 2004, the Emerging Issues Task Force of the Financial Accounting Standards Board ratified the proposed guidance in Issue No. 04-8, “Accounting Issues Related to Certain Features of Contingently Convertible Debt and the Effects on Diluted Earnings per Share” (Issue No. 04-8). Issue No. 04-8 requires the inclusion of convertible shares for contingently convertible debt in the calculation of diluted earnings per share using the if-converted method, regardless of whether the contingency has been met. In response to Issue No. 04-8, we entered into a Second Supplemental Indenture to the original Indenture for our convertible senior notes pursuant to which we irrevocably elected to satisfy our conversion obligation with respect to the 13 Table of Contents principal amount of any notes surrendered for conversion with cash and with respect to any excess over the principal amount of any notes surrendered for conversion with cash or common shares. Therefore, Issue No. 04-8 requires us to include in our calculation of diluted earnings per share only those common shares issuable in satisfaction of the aggregate conversion obligation as defined in the Indenture in excess of the aggregate principal amount of notes outstanding. The inclusion of any such shares would cause a reduction in our diluted earnings per share for any periods in which such shares are included. Volatility in our share price could cause such common shares to be included in our diluted earnings per share calculation in one quarter and not in a subsequent quarter, thereby increasing the volatility of our diluted earnings per share. Our use of variable rate debt exposes us to interest rate volatility, which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We may experience interest rate volatility in connection with borrowings that bear interest at variable rates, such as our secured and unsecured credit facilities and short-term bridge financing. Although we generally seek to place permanent debt financing on our properties on a fixed rate basis, we may seek floating rate financing on our properties when we deem it appropriate. We have a secured credit facility of up to $400 million that bears interest at a variable rate. We have also obtained an unsecured credit facility of up to $60 million, which also bears interest at a variable rate. Our use of variable rate debt and volatility in interest rates may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to pay dividends to shareholders at historical levels or at all. We may seek to mitigate our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements. These arrangements also involve risks, however, and may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes. Failure of our tenants to pay rent could seriously harm our operating results and financial condition. We rely on rental payments from our tenants as a source of cash to pay dividends to our shareholders. At any time, any of our tenants may experience a downturn in its business that may weaken its financial condition. As a result, a tenant may delay lease commencement, fail to make rental payments when due, decline to extend a lease upon its expiration, become insolvent or declare bankruptcy. Any tenant bankruptcy, insolvency, or failure to make rental payments when due could result in the termination of the tenant’s lease and material losses to our company. This risk is particularly prominent with respect to our office buildings and our sale leaseback properties, which typically have tenants with larger aggregate lease obligations than our bank branches. A default by a large tenant on one of these properties could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as on our ability to pay dividends to shareholders. In particular, if any of our significant tenants becomes insolvent, suffers a downturn in its business and decides not to renew its lease or vacates a property and prevents us from leasing that property by continuing to pay base rent for the balance of the term, it may seriously harm our business. Failure on the part of a tenant to comply with the terms of a lease may give us the right to terminate the lease, repossess the applicable property and enforce the payment obligations under the lease; however, we would be required to find another tenant. We cannot assure you that we would be able to find another tenant without incurring substantial costs, or at all, or that, if another tenant was found, we would be able to enter into a new lease on favorable terms. The bankruptcy or insolvency of our tenants under their leases or delays by our tenants in making rental payments could seriously harm our operating results and financial condition. Any bankruptcy filings by or relating to one of our tenants could bar us from collecting prebankruptcy debts from that tenant or its property, unless we receive an order permitting us to do so from the bankruptcy court. A tenant bankruptcy could delay our efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant leases, and could ultimately preclude full collection of these sums. If a lease is assumed by the tenant in bankruptcy, all pre-bankruptcy balances due under the lease must be paid to us in full. However, if a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, we would have only a general unsecured claim for damages. Any unsecured claim we hold against a bankrupt entity may be paid only to the extent that funds are available and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other holders of unsecured claims. We may recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims, which would harm our financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Many of our tenants are banks that are not eligible to be debtors under the federal bankruptcy code, but would be subject to the liquidation and insolvency provisions of applicable banking laws and regulations. If the FDIC were appointed as receiver of a banking tenant because of a tenant’s insolvency, we would become an unsecured creditor of the tenant, and be entitled to share with the other unsecured non-depositor creditors in the tenant’s assets on an equal basis after payment to the depositors of their claims. The FDIC has in the past taken the position that it has the same avoidance powers as a trustee in bankruptcy, meaning that the FDIC may try to reject the tenant’s lease with us. As a result, we would be unlikely to have a claim for more than the insolvent tenant’s accrued but unpaid rent owing through the date of the FDIC’s appointment as receiver. In any event, the amount paid on claims in respect of the lease would depend on, among other factors, the amount of assets of the insolvent tenant available for unsecured claims. We may recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to pay dividends to shareholders at historical levels or at all. A significant portion of our properties is leased to banks, making us more economically vulnerable in the event of a downturn in the banking industry. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 81.2% of our base revenue was derived from financial institutions, including regulated banks. Individual banks, as well as the banking industry in general, may be adversely affected by negative economic and market conditions throughout the United States or in the local economies in which regional or community banks operate. In addition, changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies and laws, including interest rate policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, may have an adverse impact on banks’ loan portfolios and allowances for loan losses. As a result, we may experience higher rates of lease default or terminations in the event of a downturn in the banking industry than we would if our tenant base was more diversified. We acquire a substantial number of bank branches, which are specialty-use properties and therefore may be more difficult to lease to non-banks. Bank branches are specialty-use properties that are outfitted with vaults, teller counters and other customary installations and equipment that require significant capital expenditures. Our revenue from and the value of the bank branches in our portfolio may be affected by a number of factors, including: • demand from financial institutions to lease or purchase properties that are configured to operate as bank branches; • demand from non-banking institutions to make capital expenditures to modify the specialty-use properties to suit their needs; and • a downturn in the banking industry generally and, in particular, among smaller community banks. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to pay dividends to shareholders, if financial institutions do not increase the number of bank branches they operate, do not find the locations of our bank branches desirable, or elect to make capital expenditures to materially modify other properties rather than pay higher lease or acquisition prices for properties already configured as bank branches. The sale or lease of these properties to entities other than financial institutions may be difficult due to the added cost and time of refitting the properties, which we do not expect to undertake. If we are unable to lease the bank branches we acquire to financial institutions, we may be forced to sell the branches at a loss due to the repositioning expenses likely to be incurred by non-bank purchasers. We are dependent on certain tenants for a significant portion of our revenues and failure of these tenants to perform their obligations or renew their leases upon expiration may adversely affect our cash flow and ability to pay dividends to shareholders. As of December 31, 2006, Bank of America, N.A. and Wachovia Bank, N.A. represented approximately 29% and 12%, respectively, of our portfolio’s rental income and occupied approximately 41% and 18%, respectively, of our total rentable square feet. The default, financial distress or insolvency of Bank of America N.A. or Wachovia Bank, N.A., or the failure of any of these parties to renew their leases with us upon 15 Table of Contents expiration, could cause interruptions in the receipt of lease revenue from these tenants and/or result in vacancies, which would reduce our revenue and increase operating costs until the affected properties are leased, and could decrease the ultimate value of the affected properties upon sale. We may be unable to lease the vacant property at a comparable lease rate or at all, which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition as well as our ability to pay dividends to shareholders. We may not have sufficient capital to fully perform our obligations to purchase properties under our agreements with financial institutions, which may subject us to liquidated or other damages or result in termination of these agreements. Our agreements with financial institutions require us, with limited exceptions, to purchase all bank branches that the financial institutions determine to be surplus properties. If we are unable to accurately forecast the number of properties that we may become obligated to purchase, or if we are unable to secure adequate debt or equity financing to fund the purchase price, we may not have sufficient capital to purchase these properties. If we cannot perform our obligations, we may become subject to liquidated or other damages or impair our relationships with these institutions. The institutions with whom we have such agreements may also have the right to terminate the agreements if we breach our obligations under them. Any of these damages could significantly affect our operating results, and if these agreements are terminated, our ability to acquire additional properties and successfully execute our business plan would be significantly impaired. If we are successful in entering into similar agreements with other financial institutions, we may need a significant amount of additional capital to fund additional acquisitions under those agreements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise necessary capital on acceptable terms or at all. Our inability to fund required acquisitions would adversely affect our revenues, impair our business plan and reduce cash available for distribution to shareholders. Our formulated price contracts with financial institutions may require us to purchase bank branches located in unattractive locations or vacant bank branches that we would not elect to otherwise purchase, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to pay dividends at historical levels or at all. Under our formulated price contracts, we are required, with limited exceptions, to purchase surplus bank branches that these financial institutions own. Financial institutions may elect to sell us surplus bank branches under our formulated price contracts for any number of reasons, including, among others, that the properties: • overlap with other bank branches accumulated in connection with mergers and acquisitions with other financial institutions; • have low deposit levels as compared to other branches in their portfolio; • are vacant; or • are located in unattractive areas. As a result, we may be required to purchase properties that we otherwise would not elect to purchase outside of our obligations under the formulated price contracts. The purchase of such bank branches may make it more difficult for us to lease these properties or fulfill our obligations to purchase surplus bank branches under other formulated price contracts, and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to pay dividends to shareholders at historical levels or at all. Our formulated price contracts with financial institutions may require us to purchase a large number of bank branches at any given time that we would not elect to otherwise purchase, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to pay dividends at historical levels or at all. Since generally there are no limitations on the number or dollar value of properties that the financial institution may sell to us under our formulated price contracts, we may be required to make significant cash expenditures relating to the purchase of one or a large number of properties at any given time. These expenditures may significantly deplete our available cash holdings and reduce cash available for distribution to our shareholders. In addition, we may be unable to effect the acquisition of the bank branches that we are 16 Table of Contents otherwise obligated to purchase under our formulated price contracts through either equity or debt financing. If we are unable to complete purchases of bank branches under a formulated price contract, we will be deemed to be in default of such contract and may become liable for significant damages as a result of such default. Our inability to fulfill our obligations to purchase surplus bank branches under our formulated price contracts could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to pay dividends to shareholders at historical levels or at all. We may not be able to compete successfully for tenants with other entities that operate in our industry. Numerous commercial properties compete for tenants with our properties. Some of the properties competing with ours may have newer or more desirable locations, or the competing properties’ owners may be willing to accept lower rates or may be less sensitive to risks with respect to creditworthiness of a tenant than are acceptable to us. Competition for tenants in properties that we own could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to pay dividends to shareholders at historical levels or at all. We may be unable to lease properties that we acquire from financial institutions under our formulated price contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to pay dividends to shareholders at historical levels or at all. Substantially all of the bank branches we acquire through our formulated price contracts with financial institutions are vacant when we are notified of our obligation to purchase, or elect to purchase, the properties. Either because the properties we are obligated to acquire may be unattractive or because we are required to process a large number of properties within a short time period, we cannot assure you that we will be able to lease or sublease any properties that we acquire prior to their acquisition, or at all, or that we will be able to lease or sublease properties on terms that are acceptable to us. In addition, under our formulated price contracts, we are typically restricted from permitting tenants that compete with the seller from commencing banking operations at a property during the four to six month period after the seller ceases operations at the property. This restriction could limit our ability to generate revenues from these properties in an acceptable time frame. When we enter into a lease with a tenant for a bank branch, the tenant typically has a right to terminate its obligations under the lease if it fails to obtain the necessary approvals to operate the bank branch in the location within 60 days. The tenant’s failure to receive these types of approvals during this period, or at all, may adversely affect our ability to generate revenue from these properties. If we fail to lease these properties, they will not generate any revenue for us, which could have a negative effect on our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Further, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to recover the carrying value of these properties, we may be required to recognize an impairment loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Similarly, our ability to sublease leasehold interests that we assume is sometimes restricted. If we are unable to sublease our leasehold interests on terms that are acceptable to us, or if we cannot obtain the consent of the property owner to enter into a sublease, our operating results, cash flow and ability to pay dividends may be impaired. Additionally, as part of our business strategy, we may assume third party lease obligations or sublease properties. If we are unable to enter into subleases with tenants for such space at rates sufficient to cover our contractual lease or sublease obligations, we may suffer operating losses on such transactions and/or be required to reserve against future operating losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We do not know if our tenants will renew their existing leases and, if they do not, we may be unable to lease the properties on as favorable terms, or at all, which would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We cannot predict whether existing leases of our properties will be renewed at the end of their lease terms. If these leases are not renewed, we would be required to find other tenants for those properties. We cannot assure you that we would be able to enter into leases with new tenants on terms as favorable to us as the current leases or that we would be able to lease those properties at all. Our inability to enter into new 17 Table of Contents leases on acceptable terms or at all could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to pay dividends to shareholders at historical levels or at all. Our financial covenants may restrict our operating or acquisition activities, which may harm our financial condition and operating results. The mortgages on our properties contain customary negative covenants, including provisions that may limit our ability, without the prior consent of the lender, to further mortgage the applicable property or to discontinue insurance coverage. These limitations could restrict our ability to acquire additional properties. In addition, any of our future lines of credit or loans may contain additional financial covenants and other obligations. If we breach covenants or obligations in our debt agreements, the lender can generally declare a default and require us to repay the debt immediately and, if the debt is secured, can immediately take possession of the property securing the loan. In order to meet our debt service obligations, we may have to sell properties, potentially at a loss or at times that prohibit us from achieving attractive returns. Failure to pay our indebtedness when due or failure to cure events of default could result in higher interest rates during the period of the loan default and could ultimately result in the loss of properties through lender foreclosure. We are subject to contractual obligations and covenants that may restrict our ability to dispose of our properties at attractive returns or when we otherwise desire to sell them. Under the partnership agreement of 801 Market Street Holdings, L.P., which owns our 801 Market Street property, we are contractually restricted, until April 5, 2008, from selling or refinancing the property without the consent of the holders of a majority of the 11% minority limited partnership interest in 801 Market Street Holdings, L.P. As a result of these restrictions, we could be precluded from disposing of, refinancing or taking other material actions with respect to these properties during the restricted period, even if we are presented with an opportunity to dispose of or refinance these properties on terms that we believe are attractive. With respect to the properties we acquired from a wholly owned subsidiary of Dana Commercial Credit Corporation, we are restricted from selling any individual property in the portfolio so long as the existing master lease for the portfolio is in effect. In the future, we may become subject to additional contractual obligations and covenants that may restrict our ability to dispose of our properties. We have a credit facility under which the lender will have the right, under certain circumstances, to require that we pledge additional collateral or repay a portion of the outstanding principal on short notice, which could have an adverse effect on our business. In July 2003, we completed a financing with Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., acting on behalf of Deutsche Bank AG, Cayman Islands Branch, for a $300.0 million secured credit facility. In September 2005, we executed a renewal of this facility, expanding the maximum available under the facility to $400.0 million. As of December 31, 2006 we had $212.6 million of advances outstanding under this facility. Advances under this facility must be repaid within 18 months. Advances under this facility are made in the aggregate principal amount of up to 80% of the lesser of either (i) the maximum amount of subsequent debt financing that can be secured by the properties we acquire with the borrowings under this facility or (ii) the acquisition cost of those properties. The lender has the right to reassess this ratio from time to time. If the lender determines that this ratio exceeds a ratio that the lender deems appropriate based on then current market conditions, the lender may require us to pledge additional qualifying collateral under the facility or repay a portion of the principal outstanding under the facility. If we do not have additional qualifying collateral or sufficient available liquidity to satisfy the lender’s requirements, then we could default on our obligations under the facility and thereby risk foreclosure by the lender on the properties we acquired with the borrowings under this facility or we could incur losses in an effort to raise sufficient liquidity to repay the portion of the principal required by the lender. We may complete additional debt financings with similar obligations in the future. 18 Table of Contents Certain of our mortgage loans impose “cash traps” when the financial performance of the property or the portfolio of properties securing such loans fail to meet certain pre-determined financial metrics, which if enforced could adversely effect our financial condition and operating results The provisions relating to “cash traps” in our mortgage loan for our Bank of America, N.A. portfolio of 248 properties that we acquired in October 2004 have been triggered as a result of the portfolio’s failure to meet certain financial performance metrics. Likewise, similar provisions in our mortgage loan for our 123 S. Broad — Unit 2 property have been triggered as a result of anticipated reduced revenues resulting from the lead tenant’s exercise of partial early termination rights. If payments into these cash traps continue and if similar provisions in our other mortgage loans are triggered, our liquidity will be negatively impacted and this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Increasing competition for the acquisition of real estate may impede our ability to make future acquisitions or may increase the cost of these acquisitions, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We compete with many other entities engaged in real estate investment activities, including the acquisition of properties from financial institutions. Such entities include institutional pension funds, other REITs, other public and private real estate companies and private real estate investors. These competitors may prevent us from acquiring desirable properties or increase the price we must pay for real estate. Our competitors may have greater resources than we do, and may be willing to pay more or may have a more compatible operating philosophy with our acquisition targets. In particular, larger REITs may enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital and enhanced operating efficiencies. Our competitors may also adopt transaction structures similar to ours, which would decrease our competitive advantage in offering flexible transaction terms. In addition, the number of entities and the amount of funds competing for suitable investment properties may increase, resulting in increased demand and increased prices paid for such properties. If we pay higher prices for properties, our profitability may decrease and we may experience a lower return on our investments. Increased competition for properties may also preclude us from acquiring those properties that would generate the most attractive returns to us. The consideration paid for our properties may exceed fair market value, which may harm our financial condition and operating results. Under our formulated price contracts, we are obligated to purchase properties at a formulated price based on independent appraisals using a valuation methodology that values the properties based on their highest and best use and their alternative uses, and then applies a negotiated discount. Therefore, where we ultimately lease or sell a property to a non-bank, the fair market value of the property measured with respect to the lease or sale may be less than the purchase price that we paid for the property. In addition, the consideration that we pay for our properties not acquired under a formulated price contract will be based upon numerous factors and such properties will often be purchased in negotiated transactions rather than through a competitive bidding process. We cannot assure you that the purchase prices we pay for our properties or their appraised values will be a fair price for these properties, that we will be able to generate an acceptable return on these properties, or that the location, lease terms or other relevant economic and financial data of any properties that we acquire, including our existing portfolio, will meet risk profiles acceptable to our investors. As a result, our investments in these properties may fail to perform in accordance with our expectations, which may substantially harm our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to pay dividends to shareholders at historical levels or at all. We structure many of our acquisitions using complex structures often based on forecasted results for the acquisitions, and if the acquired properties underperform forecasted results, our financial condition and operating results may be harmed. We may acquire some of our properties under complex structures that we tailor to meet the specific needs of the tenants and/or sellers. For instance, we may enter into transactions under which a portion of the properties are vacant or will be vacant following the completion of the acquisition. If we fail to accurately forecast the leasing of such properties following our acquisition, our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to pay dividends to shareholders, may be adversely impacted. 19 Table of Contents As a result of the limited time during which we have to perform due diligence on many of our acquired properties, we may become subject to significant unexpected liabilities and our properties may not meet projections. When we enter into an agreement to acquire a property or portfolio of properties, we often have limited time to complete our due diligence prior to acquiring the property. Because our internal resources are limited, we may rely on third parties to conduct a portion of our due diligence. To the extent we or these third parties underestimate or fail to identify risks and liabilities associated with the properties we acquire, we may incur unexpected liabilities and/or the acquired properties may fail to perform in accordance with our projections. If we do not accurately assess during the due diligence phase the value of, and liabilities associated with, properties prior to their acquisition, we may pay a purchase price that exceeds the current fair value of the net identifiable assets of the acquired businesses. As a result, material goodwill and other intangible assets would be required to be recorded, which could result in significant charges in future periods. These charges, in addition to the financial impact of significant liabilities that we may assume, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results, as well as our ability to pay dividends to shareholders at historical levels or at all. If third party managers providing property management services for our office buildings or their personnel are negligent in their performance of, or default on, their management obligations, our tenants may not renew their leases or we may become subject to unforeseen liabilities. If this occurs, our financial condition and operating results, as well as our ability to pay dividends to shareholders at historical levels or at all, could be substantially harmed. We have entered into agreements with third party management companies to provide property management services for a significant number of our office buildings, and we expect to enter into similar third party management agreements with respect to office buildings we acquire in the future. We do not supervise these third party managers and their personnel on a day-to-day basis and we cannot assure you that they will manage our properties in a manner that is consistent with their obligations under our agreements, that they will not be negligent in their performance or engage in other criminal or fraudulent activity, or that these managers will not otherwise default on their management obligations to us. If any of the foregoing occurs, our relationships with our tenants could be damaged, which may prevent the tenants from renewing their leases, and we could incur liabilities resulting from loss or injury to our properties or to persons at our properties. If we are unable to lease our properties or we become subject to significant liabilities as a result of third party management performance issues, our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to pay dividends to shareholders, could be substantially harmed. Rising operating expenses could reduce our cash flow and funds available for future dividends. Our properties are subject to operating risks common to real estate in general, any or all of which may negatively affect us. If any property is not fully occupied or if rents are being paid in an amount that is insufficient to cover operating expenses, we could be required to expend funds for that property’s operating expenses. Our properties are also subject to increases in real estate and other tax rates, utility costs, operating expenses, insurance costs, repairs and maintenance and administrative expenses. While many of our properties are leased on a triple net basis or under leases that require that tenants pay a portion of the expenses associated with maintaining the properties, renewals of leases or future leases may not be negotiated on that basis, in which event we will have to pay those costs. In addition, real estate taxes on our properties and any other properties that we develop or acquire in the future may increase as property tax rates change and as those properties are assessed or reassessed by tax authorities. Many U.S. states and localities are considering increases in their income and/or property tax rates (or increases in the assessments of real estate) to cover revenue shortfalls. If we are unable to lease properties on a triple net basis or on a basis requiring the tenants to pay all or some of the expenses associated with maintaining the properties, or if tenants fail to pay required tax, utility and other impositions, we could be required to pay those costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to pay dividends to shareholders at historical levels or at all. 20 Table of Contents We may be unable to generate sufficient revenue from operations to pay our operating expenses and to pay dividends to our shareholders at historical levels or at all. We intend to distribute to our shareholders all or substantially all of our REIT taxable income each year so as to avoid paying corporate income tax and excise tax on our earnings and to qualify for the tax benefits accorded to REITs under the Internal Revenue Code. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level and our ability to pay dividends may be adversely affected by the risk factors described herein. Since inception, dividends and Operating Partnership distributions have exceeded the minimum amounts required to satisfy the Internal Revenue Code distribution requirements. As such, any distribution amount in excess of our taxable income is designated as a return of capital. All distributions will be made at the discretion of our board of trustees and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT status and other factors that our board of trustees may deem relevant from time to time. We cannot assure you that we will be able to pay dividends in the future. Our ability to pay dividends is based on many factors, including: • our ability to make additional acquisitions; • our ability to borrow capital; • our success in negotiating favorable lease terms; • our ability to dispose of non-core properties at favorable terms; • our tenants’ ability to perform under their leases; and • our anticipated operating expense levels may not prove accurate, as actual results may vary substantially from estimates. Elements of each of these factors may be beyond our control and a change in any one or all of these factors could affect our ability to pay future dividends. We also cannot assure you that the level of our dividends will increase over time or that contractual increases in rent under the leases of our properties or the receipt of rental revenue in connection with future acquisitions of properties will increase our cash available for distribution to shareholders. In the event of defaults or lease terminations by our tenants, rental payments could decrease or cease, which would result in a reduction in cash available for distribution. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure We depend on key personnel with long-standing business relationships, the loss of whom could threaten our ability to operate our business successfully. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, upon the continued services of Harold W. Pote, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and of our management team. In particular, the extent and nature of the relationships that Mr. Pote and the other members of our management team have developed with financial institutions and existing and prospective tenants is critically important to the success of our business. Although we have an employment agreement with Mr. Pote and other key executives, there is no guarantee that Mr. Pote or the other executives will remain employed with us. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our officers. The loss of services of one or more members of our corporate management team, particularly Mr. Pote, would harm our business and our prospects. Our board of trustees may authorize the issuance of additional shares that may cause dilution. Our declaration of trust authorizes the board of trustees, without shareholder approval, to: • amend the declaration of trust to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of beneficial interest or the number of shares of beneficial interest of any class that we have the authority to issue; • authorize the issuance of additional common or preferred shares, or units of our operating partnership which may be convertible into common shares, in connection with future equity offerings, acquisitions of properties or other assets of companies; and • classify or reclassify any unissued common shares or preferred shares and set preferences, rights and other terms of such classified or reclassified shares, including the issuance of preferred shares that 21 Table of Contents have preference rights over the common shares with respect to dividends, liquidation, voting and other matters or common shares that have preference rights with respect to voting. The issuance of additional shares could be substantially dilutive to our existing shareholders. Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to take action against our trustees and officers are limited, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interests. Maryland law provides that a trustee has no liability in that capacity if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. Our declaration of trust authorizes us to indemnify our trustees and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the extent permitted by Maryland law. In addition, our declaration of trust limits the liability of our trustees and officers for money damages, except for liability resulting from: • actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or • a final judgment based upon a finding of active and deliberate dishonesty by the trustee or officer that was material to the cause of action adjudicated. As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our trustees and officers than might otherwise exist. Our bylaws require us to indemnify each trustee or officer who has been successful, on the merits or otherwise, in the defense of any proceeding to which he or she is made a party by reason of his or her service to us. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our trustees and officers. Our ownership limitations may restrict business combination opportunities. To qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, no more than 50% of our outstanding common shares of beneficial interest may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer persons during the last half of each taxable year (other than our first REIT taxable year). To preserve our REIT qualification, our declaration of trust generally prohibits direct or indirect ownership by any person of more than 9.9% of the number of outstanding shares of any class of our securities, including our common shares. Generally, common shares owned by affiliated owners will be aggregated for purposes of the ownership limitation. Any transfer of our common shares that would violate the ownership limitation will be null and void, and the intended transferee will acquire no rights in such shares. Instead, such common shares will be designated as “shares-in-trust” and transferred automatically to a trust effective on the day before the purported transfer of such shares. The beneficiary of a trust will be one or more charitable organizations named by us. The ownership limitation could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control or other transaction in which holders of common shares might receive a premium for their common shares over the then current market price or which such holders might believe to be otherwise in their best interests. The ownership limitation provisions also may make our common shares an unsuitable investment vehicle for any person seeking to obtain, either alone or with others as a group, ownership of more than 9.9% in value of our shares. We are dependent on external sources of capital for future growth. Because we are a REIT, we must distribute at least 90% of our annual taxable income to our shareholders. Due to this requirement, we will not be able to fund our acquisition, construction and development activities using cash flow from operations. Therefore, our ability to fund these activities is dependent on our ability to access capital funded by third parties. Such capital could be in the form of new loans, equity issuances of common shares, preferred shares, common and preferred units in our Operating Partnership or joint venture funding. Such capital may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Moreover, additional debt financing may substantially increase our leverage and subject us to covenants that restrict management’s flexibility in directing our operations, and additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of our shareholders’ interests. Our inability to obtain capital when needed could have a material adverse effect on our ability to expand our business and fund other cash requirements. 22 Table of Contents Our declaration of trust contains provisions that make removal of our trustees difficult, which could make it difficult for our shareholders to effect changes to our management. Our declaration of trust provides that a trustee may only be removed upon the affirmative vote of holders of two-thirds of our outstanding common shares. Vacancies may be filled by the board of trustees. This requirement makes it more difficult to change our management by removing and replacing trustees. Our board of trustees may approve the issuance of preferred shares with terms that may discourage a third party from acquiring us. Our declaration of trust permits our board of trustees to issue up to 100,000,000 preferred shares, issuable in one or more classes or series. Our board of trustees may classify or reclassify any unissued preferred shares and establish the preferences and rights (including the right to vote, participate in earnings and to convert into common shares) of any such preferred shares. Thus, our board of trustees could authorize the issuance of preferred shares with terms and conditions which could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which holders of some or a majority of the common shares might receive a premium for their shares over the then current market price of our common shares. Maryland law may discourage a third party from acquiring us. Maryland law provides broad discretion to our board of trustees with respect to its fiduciary duties in considering a change in control of our company, including that our board is subject to no greater level of scrutiny in considering a change in control transaction than with respect to any other act by our board. The Maryland Business Combination Act restricts mergers and other business combinations between our company and an interested shareholder. An “interested shareholder” is defined as any person who is the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our common shares and also includes any of our affiliates or associates that, at any time within the two year period prior to the date of a proposed merger or other business combination, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of our voting power. A person is not an interested shareholder if, prior to the most recent time at which the person would otherwise have become an interested shareholder, our board of trustees approved the transaction which otherwise would have resulted in the person becoming an interested shareholder. For a period of five years after the most recent acquisition of shares by an interested shareholder, we may not engage in any merger or other business combination with that interested shareholder or any affiliate of that interested shareholder. After the five year period, any merger or other business combination must be approved by our board of trustees and by at least 80% of all the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding voting shares and two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding voting shares other than the interested shareholder or any affiliate or associate of the interested shareholder unless, among other things, the shareholders (other than the interested shareholder) receive a minimum price for their common shares and the consideration received by those shareholders is in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested shareholder for its common shares. These provisions of the business combination statute do not apply to business combinations that are approved or exempted by our board of trustees prior to the time that the interested shareholder becomes an interested shareholder. However, the business combination statute could have the effect of discouraging offers from third parties to acquire us and increasing the difficulty of successfully completing this type of offer. Additionally, the “control shares” provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or MGCL, are applicable to us as if we were a corporation. These provisions eliminate the voting rights of shares acquired in quantities so as to constitute “control shares,” as defined under the MGCL. Our bylaws provide that we are not bound by the control share acquisition statute. However, our board of trustees may opt to make the statute applicable to us at any time, and may do so on a retroactive basis. Finally, the “unsolicited takeovers” provisions of the MGCL permit our board of trustees, without shareholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our declaration of trust or bylaws, to implement takeover defenses that we do not yet have. These provisions may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making an acquisition proposal for our company or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our common shares with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price. 23 Table of Contents Our board of trustees may change our investment and operational policies and practices without a vote of our common shareholders, which limits your control of our policies and practices. Our major policies, including our policies and practices with respect to investments, financing, growth, debt capitalization, REIT qualification and distributions, are determined by our board of trustees. Our board of trustees may amend or revise these and other policies from time to time without a vote of our shareholders. Accordingly, our shareholders will have limited control over changes in our policies. We have set a targeted range for the amount of net indebtedness (debt less unrestricted cash and short-term investments) that we incur from time to time. Although our average target range is 60% to 65% of total assets, we may amend or waive this target range at any time without shareholder approval and without notice to our shareholders. For example, as of December 31, 2006 our ratio of net debt to total assets was approximately 66.6% and we anticipate that we will continue to exceed our target range of indebtedness for some period of time. Our declaration of trust and bylaws do not limit the amount of indebtedness that we or our operating partnership may incur. If we become highly leveraged, then the resulting increase in debt service could adversely affect our ability to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness and harm our financial condition. Our executive officers have agreements that provide them with benefits in the event their employment is terminated, which could prevent or deter a potential acquiror from pursuing a change of control of our company. We have entered into agreements with certain of our executive officers that provide them with severance benefits if their employment ends due to a termination by our company without cause. In the case of such terminations or upon a change of control, the vesting of the restricted shares and options to purchase our common shares held by the executive officers will be accelerated. These benefits could increase the cost to a potential acquiror of our company and thereby prevent or deter a change of control of the company that might involve a premium price for our common shares or otherwise be in the best interests of our shareholders. Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry Mortgage debt obligations expose us to increased risk of property losses, which could harm our financial condition, cash flow and ability to satisfy our other debt obligations and pay dividends. Incurring mortgage debt increases our risk of property losses because defaults on indebtedness secured by properties may result in foreclosure actions initiated by lenders and ultimately our loss of the property securing any loans for which we are in default. For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our properties would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but would not receive any cash proceeds. As a result, we may be required to identify and utilize other sources of cash to pay our taxes, which may result in a decrease in cash available for distribution to our shareholders. In addition, our default under any one of our mortgage debt obligations may result in a cross-default on certain of our other indebtedness or increase the risk of default on our other indebtedness. If this occurs, our financial condition, cash flow and ability to satisfy our other debt obligations or ability to pay dividends may be harmed. Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties and harm our financial condition. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more properties in our portfolio in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions is limited. The real estate market is affected by many factors that are beyond our control, including: • adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions; • changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of debt financing; • changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances; 24 Table of Contents • the ongoing need for capital improvements, particularly in older structures; • changes in operating expenses; and • civil unrest, acts of war and natural disasters, including earthquakes and floods, which may result in uninsured and underinsured losses. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. These risks can be particularly pronounced with respect to the small, specialty use properties that we may purchase under our formulated price contracts with banks. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We cannot assure you that we will have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements. In acquiring a property, we may agree to lock-out provisions that materially restrict us from selling that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property. These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to pay dividends to shareholders. The costs of compliance with or liabilities under environmental laws may harm our operating results. Our properties may be subject to environmental liabilities. An owner or operator of real property can face liability for environmental contamination created by the presence or discharge of hazardous substances on the property. We may face liability regardless of: • our knowledge of the contamination; • the timing of the contamination; • the cause of the contamination; or • the party responsible for the contamination of the property. There may be environmental problems associated with our properties of which we are unaware. Some of our properties use, or may have used in the past, underground tanks for the storage of petroleum-based or waste products, or have had other operations conducted thereon, that have released, or could create a potential for release of, hazardous substances. If environmental contamination exists on our properties, we could become subject to strict, joint and several liability for the contamination by virtue of our ownership or leasehold interest. We are aware of environmental contamination at some of our properties which we are currently investigating or remediating. We may be indemnified for many of these properties, subject to certain limitations. The presence of hazardous substances on a property may adversely affect our ability to sell the property and we may incur substantial remediation costs. In addition, although our leases generally require our tenants to operate in compliance with all applicable laws and to indemnify us against any environmental liabilities arising from a tenant’s activities on the property, we could nonetheless be subject to strict liability by virtue of our ownership interest, and we cannot be sure that our tenants would satisfy their indemnification obligations under the applicable sales agreement or lease. The discovery of environmental liabilities attached to our properties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to shareholders. We maintain environmental insurance coverage for our property portfolio. However, our insurance, which is limited to $5.0 million per occurrence, subject to a $75,000 self-insurance retention and a $10.0 million cap, may be insufficient to address any particular environmental situation and we may be unable to continue to obtain insurance for environmental matters, at a reasonable cost or at all, in the future. If our environmental liability insurance is inadequate, we may become subject to material losses for environmental liabilities. 25 Table of Contents Our properties may contain or develop harmful mold, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediating the problem. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Concern about indoor exposure to mold has been increasing as exposure to mold may cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold at any of our properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the affected property. In addition, the presence of significant mold could expose us to liability from our tenants, employees of our tenants and others if property damage or health concerns arise. Our properties may contain asbestos which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediating asbestos. Certain laws and regulations govern the removal, encapsulation or disturbance of asbestos-containing materials (“ACMs”) when those materials are in poor condition or in the event of building renovation or demolition, impose certain worker protection and notification requirements and govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. These laws may also impose liability for a release of ACMs and may enable third parties to seek recovery against us for personal injury associated with ACMs. There are or may be ACMs at certain of our properties. We have either developed and implemented or are in the process of developing and implementing operations and maintenance programs that establish operating procedures with respect to ACMs. In March 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Interpretation No. 47, “Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations,” (FIN 47). FIN 47 clarifies that the term conditional asset retirement obligation as used in FASB Statement No. 143, “Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations,” refers to a legal obligation to perform an asset retirement activity in which the timing and (or) method of settlement are conditional on a future event that may or may not be within the control of the entity. The obligation to perform the asset retirement activity is unconditional even though uncertainty exists about the timing and (or) method of settlement. Thus, the timing and (or) method of settlement may be conditional on a future event. Accordingly, an entity is required to recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value of the liability can be reasonably estimated. The fair value of a liability for the conditional asset retirement obligation is recognized when incurred — generally upon acquisition, construction, or development and (or) through the normal operation of the asset. To comply with FIN 47, we assessed the cost associated with our legal obligation to remediate asbestos in our properties known to contain asbestos. We believe that the majority of the costs associated with our remediation of asbestos have been identified and recorded in compliance with FIN 47, however other obligations associated with asbestos in our properties may exist. Other obligations associated with asbestos in our properties will be recorded in our consolidated statement of operations in the future when/if the cost is incurred. Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make unintended expenditures that adversely impact our ability to pay dividends to shareholders at historical levels or at all. All of our properties are required to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act, or the ADA. The ADA has separate compliance requirements for “public accommodations” and “commercial facilities,” but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. Compliance with the ADA requirements could require removal of access barriers and non-compliance could result in imposition of fines by the U.S. government or an award of damages to private litigants, or both. While the tenants to whom we lease properties are obligated by law to comply with the ADA provisions, and under our net leases are typically obligated to cover costs associated with compliance, if required changes involve greater expenditures than anticipated, or if the changes must be made on a more accelerated basis than anticipated, the ability of these tenants to cover costs could be adversely affected and we could be required to expend our own funds to comply with the provisions of the ADA, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial 26 Table of Contents condition and our ability to make distributions to shareholders. In addition, we are required to operate our properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies and become applicable to our properties. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with those requirements and these expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our ability to pay dividends to shareholders at historical levels or at all. An uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the policies on our properties could subject us to lost capital or revenue on those properties. Under the terms and conditions of the leases currently in force on our properties, tenants generally are required to indemnify and hold us harmless from liabilities resulting from injury to persons, air, water, land or property, on or off the premises, due to activities conducted on the properties, except for claims arising from the negligence or intentional misconduct of us or our agents. Additionally, tenants are generally required, at the tenants’ expense, to obtain and keep in full force during the term of the lease, liability and property damage insurance policies issued by companies holding general policyholder ratings of at least “A” as set forth in the most current issue of Best’s Insurance Guide. Insurance policies for property damage are generally in amounts not less than the full replacement cost of the improvements less slab, foundations, supports and other customarily excluded improvements and insure against all perils of fire, extended coverage, vandalism, malicious mischief and special extended perils (“all risk,” as that term is used in the insurance industry). Insurance policies are generally obtained by the tenant providing general liability coverage varying between $1.0 million and $10.0 million depending on the facts and circumstances surrounding the tenant and the industry in which it operates. These policies include liability coverage for bodily injury and property damage arising out of the ownership, use, occupancy or maintenance of the properties and all of their appurtenant areas. In addition to the indemnities and required insurance policies identified above, many of our properties are also covered by flood and earthquake insurance policies obtained by and paid for by the tenants as part of their risk management programs. Additionally, we have obtained blanket liability and property damage insurance policies to protect us and our properties against loss should the indemnities and insurance policies provided by the tenants fail to restore the properties to their condition prior to a loss. All of these policies may involve substantial deductibles and certain exclusions. In certain areas, we may have to obtain earthquake and flood insurance on specific properties as required by our lenders or by law. We have also obtained terrorism insurance on some of our larger office buildings, but this insurance is subject to exclusions for loss or damage caused by nuclear substances, pollutants, contaminants and biological and chemical weapons. Should a loss occur that is uninsured or in an amount exceeding the combined aggregate limits for the policies noted above, or in the event of a loss that is subject to a substantial deductible under an insurance policy, we could lose all or part of our capital invested in, and anticipated revenue from, one or more of the properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to pay dividends to shareholders at historical levels or at all. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, and other acts of violence or war may affect any market on which our common shares trade, the markets in which we operate, our operations and our profitability. Terrorist attacks may negatively affect our operations and your investment in our common shares. We cannot assure you that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the United States or United States businesses. Some of our properties are high profile office buildings in prominent locations, or are located in areas that may be susceptible to attack, which may make these properties more likely to be viewed as terrorist targets than similar, less recognizable properties. These attacks or armed conflicts may directly impact the value of our properties through damage, destruction, loss or increased security costs. We have obtained terrorism insurance on our large office buildings to the extent required by our lenders. The terrorism insurance that we obtain may not be sufficient to cover loss for damages to our properties as a result of terrorist attacks. In addition, certain losses resulting from these types of events are uninsurable and others would not be covered by our current terrorism insurance. Additional terrorism insurance may not be available at a reasonable price or at all. 27 Table of Contents Any terrorist attacks or armed conflicts could result in increased volatility in or damage to the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy. They also could result in a continuation of the current economic uncertainty in the United States or abroad. Our revenues are dependent upon payment of rent by financial institutions, which are particularly vulnerable to uncertainty in the worldwide financial markets. Adverse economic conditions could affect the ability of our tenants to pay rent, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to pay dividends to shareholders at historical levels or at all, and may result in volatility in the market price of our securities. Tax Risks of our Business and Structure Your investment in our common shares has various federal, state and local income tax risks that could affect the value of your investment. We strongly urge you to consult your own tax advisor concerning the effects of federal, state and local income tax law on an investment in our common shares because of the complex nature of the tax rules applicable to REITs and their shareholders. Distribution requirements imposed by law limit our flexibility in executing our business plan. To maintain our status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we generally are required to distribute to our shareholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income each year. REIT taxable income is determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and by excluding net capital gains. We are also required to pay tax at regular corporate rates to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our taxable income (including net capital gains) each year. In addition, we are required to pay a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which certain distributions we pay with respect to any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income for that calendar year, 95% of our capital gain net income for the calendar year and any amount of our income that was not distributed in prior years. We intend to distribute to our shareholders all or substantially all of our taxable REIT income each year in order to comply with the distribution requirements of the Internal Revenue Code and to avoid federal income tax and the nondeductible excise tax. Differences in timing between the receipt of income and the payment of expenses in arriving at REIT taxable income and the effect of required debt amortization payments could require us to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the distribution requirements that are necessary to achieve the tax benefits associated with qualifying as a REIT. We may incur additional indebtedness in order to meet our distribution requirements. As a REIT, we must distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, which limits the amount of cash we have available for other business purposes, including amounts to fund our growth. Also, it is possible that because of the differences between the time we actually receive revenue or pay expenses and the period we report those items for distribution purposes, we may have to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the 90% distribution requirement. Our disposal of properties may have negative implications, including unfavorable tax consequences. In the past, we have sold properties that we deemed to be inconsistent with the investment parameters for our portfolio. We intend to continue to sell such properties. We may also sell properties for other reasons, as we deem appropriate. If we make a sale of a property directly, and it is deemed to be a sale of dealer property or inventory, the sale may be deemed to be a “prohibited transaction” under federal tax laws applicable to REITs, in which case our gain from the sale would be subject to a 100% penalty tax. If we believe that a sale of a property will likely be subject to the prohibited transaction tax, we will dispose of that property through a taxable REIT subsidiary, in which case the gain from the sale would be subject to corporate income tax but not the 100% penalty tax. We cannot assure you, however, that the Internal Revenue Service would not assert successfully that sales of properties that we make directly, rather than through a taxable REIT subsidiary, were sales of dealer property or inventory, in which case the 100% penalty tax would apply. 28 Table of Contents If we fail to remain qualified as a REIT, our dividends will not be deductible by us, and our income will be subject to taxation. We believe that we qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, which affords us significant tax advantages. The requirements for this qualification, however, are complex and our management has limited experience in operating a REIT. If we fail to meet these requirements, our dividends will not be deductible by us and we will be subject to a corporate level tax on our taxable income. This would substantially reduce our cash available to pay dividends and your yield on your investment. In addition, incurring corporate income tax liability might cause us to borrow funds, liquidate some of our investments or take other steps which could negatively affect our operating results. Moreover, if our REIT status is terminated because of our failure to meet a REIT qualification requirement or if we voluntarily revoke our election, we would be disqualified from electing treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which REIT status is lost. We may be subject to federal and state income taxes that would adversely affect our financial condition. Even if we qualify and maintain our status as a REIT, we may become subject to federal income taxes and related state taxes. For example, if we have net income from a sale of dealer property or inventory, that income will be subject to a 100% penalty tax. In addition, we may not be able to pay sufficient distributions to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax on undistributed income. We may also be subject to state and local taxes on our income or property, either directly, at the level of our operating partnership or at the level of the other entities through which we indirectly own our properties, that would adversely affect our operating results. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to satisfy the REIT requirements, or that it will be in our best interests to continue to do so. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 29 Table of Contents 