ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Infinity’s business operations face a number of risks. These risks should be read and considered with other information provided in this report. Because of the significant concentration of Infinity’s business in California, Infinity’s profitability may be adversely affected by negative developments in the California insurance market, including, among others, recent regulations on rating factors and rate of return. California, Infinity’s largest market, generated approximately 50% of Infinity’s gross written premiums in 2006. Infinity’s California business also generates substantial underwriting profit. Consequently, Infinity’s revenues and profitability are affected by the dynamic nature of regulatory, legal, economic and competitive conditions in that state. Recent examples of potentially adverse regulatory or judicial developments in California include regulations restricting territory as a rate factor (“Rating Factor Regulations”), limiting the after-tax rate of return allowed an insurer (“Rate Approval Regulations”), restrictions on the type of compensation paid to, or fees charged by, independent brokers, and measures to regulate how an insurer establishes reasonable costs to be covered for paint and materials in automobile repairs, and the manner in which an insurer can make referrals to an automobile repair shop. These developments could negatively affect premium revenue or make it more expensive or less profitable for Infinity to conduct business in the state. Recent attempts by insurance trade associations to halt enforcement of the Rating Factor Regulations have been largely unsuccessful. As a consequence, the Company has submitted class plan and rate filings with the California Department of Insurance (“CDI”). The CDI, however, has not yet approved these filings and may require further rate adjustments. Other automobile insurers doing business in the state have also, or will in the coming months, submit modified class and rate plans in response to the Rate Factor Regulations. As this process is likely to continue through 2007, it is difficult to predict how or when these rate changes may impact Infinity from a competitive standpoint, or to what extent the Rate Factor Regulations will affect the profitability of the business Infinity writes in California. Cyclical conditions in the personal automobile insurance industry, particularly in the market for nonstandard insurance, could reduce Infinity’s profitability. The personal automobile industry is in the midst of a “soft market” cycle, which is characterized by heightened price competition and excess underwriting capacity. To enhance revenue growth during this cycle, some insurers may opt to reduce rates or loosen underwriting standards. Such actions may make it more challenging for Infinity to maintain or grow market share and achieve desired underwriting margins. The soft market cycle may also cause some companies that have traditionally focused on writing standard and preferred risks to compete with Infinity for the nonstandard business. New competition from such companies, some of which have greater financial, technical and operating resources than Infinity, could adversely impact Infinity’s profitability and growth prospects. Profitability may be affected if Infinity fails to accurately price the risks it underwrites. Infinity’s profitability depends on its ability to set premium rates accurately. Pricing with accuracy is complicated by inflationary pressures on medical care, auto parts and repair services costs, and is dependent on the availability of sufficient, reliable data on which to project both severity and frequency trends and timely recognition of changes in loss cost trends. This process poses more of a challenge in markets where Infinity has less geographic presence and experience. Consequently, Infinity could underprice risks, which could negatively affect its profit margins, or overprice risks, which could reduce sales volume and competitiveness. Either scenario could adversely affect profitability. Extra-contractual losses arising from bad faith claims could result in losses that are material to Infinity’s results of operations. In California, Florida, and other states where Infinity has substantial operations, the judicial climate, case law or statutory framework are often viewed as less favorable toward an insurer in litigation brought against it by policyholders and third-party claimants. 7 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements INFINITY PROPERTY AND CASUALTY CORPORATION 10-K RISK FACTORS This tends to increase an insurer’s exposure to extra-contractual losses, or monetary damages beyond policy limits, in what are known as “bad faith” claims. Such claims have in the past, and may in the future, result in losses to Infinity that are material to the Company’s operating results. The failure to maintain and further develop reliable and efficient information and technology systems would be disruptive to Infinity’s operations and diminish its ability to compete successfully. Infinity is highly dependent on its information technology and business systems performing efficiently and in an uninterrupted fashion to quote, process and service its business, and to perform actuarial functions necessary for pricing and product development. These systems must also possess the capability of undergoing modifications and improvements, from time to time, without interruptions or untimely delays, so that Infinity may meet growing customer demands for user friendly on-line systems and high quality and convenient customer service. The Company is currently undergoing fundamental changes and improvements to its service platform. A material failure in these systems, or failure or delay to achieve these improvements, could interrupt certain processes or degrade business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. Legal, regulatory and legislative challenges to established practices in the areas of underwriting, claims handling and compensation issues are continually emerging and could adversely impact Infinity’s revenues or established methods of doing business. As automobile insurance industry practices and regulatory, judicial and consumer conditions change, challenges to prevailing industry practices continue to emerge. Recent challenges to Infinity practices relate to: • the use of an applicant’s credit, territory and other rating factors in making risk selection and pricing decisions; • the manner in which brokers are compensated and provided incentives; • the use of automated databases to assist in the adjustment of bodily injury claims; and • the terms and conditions surrounding the use of direct repair shops and towing services. Some of these practices are the subject of ongoing litigation (See Note 12 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Legal Proceedings”). How or when these issues are ultimately resolved is uncertain. The resolutions could, however, adversely impact Infinity’s revenues or its methods of doing business. The inability to recruit, develop and retain key personnel could prevent Infinity from implementing its business strategy and negatively affect future growth and profitability. Successful implementation of Infinity’s business strategy will depend, in part, upon the continued services of its Chief Executive Officer, James Gober, who is under contract with the Company through December 2008. Infinity’s future success will also depend on it attracting and retaining its executives and key personnel. The highly competitive nature of the industry, along with the advantages larger, more established or well known competing firms possess in the recruiting process, pose a challenge for companies like Infinity. The loss of any of the executive officers or key personnel, or the inability to attract and retain new talent, could prevent Infinity from fully implementing its business strategy and negatively affect future growth and profitability. Infinity may not be able to retain or increase the level of business independent agents and brokers place with Infinity, which could negatively affect revenues. Infinity must compete with other insurance carriers for independent agents’ and brokers’ business in an increasingly competitive marketplace. Some competitors offer superior quoting or business process systems, a larger variety of products, lower prices for insurance coverage, higher commissions or more attractive cash and non-cash incentives. Recent or future regulations, legislation or litigation may also have the effect of limiting the manner in which brokers are compensated or provided incentives, particularly in California where Infinity deals predominantly with brokers as opposed to licensed agents. Such developments could negatively impact revenues in a given market. 8 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements INFINITY PROPERTY AND CASUALTY CORPORATION 10-K RISK FACTORS Infinity is vulnerable to a reduction in the amount of business written through the independent agents distribution channel. Reliance on the independent agency as its primary distribution channel makes Infinity vulnerable to the growing popularity of direct distribution channels, particularly the Internet. Approximately two-thirds of all personal automobile insurance sold in the United States is sold direct or through captive agents (agents employed by one company or selling only one company’s products) and approximately one-third is sold by independent agents. A material reduction in the amount of business generated through the independent agency channel could negatively impact Infinity’s revenues and growth opportunities. The failure to effectively manage the on-going consolidation of customer service, information technology and other support functions could be disruptive to Infinity’s operations. Infinity announced in October 2006 plans to consolidate its customer service, treasury, centralized claims, information technology, and other back-office service departments located in several cities to Birmingham, Alabama. Over 400 staff positions will be affected. This consolidation effort will continue throughout 2007 and will require reduction, transfer or replacement of staff, closing of several facilities and lease and renovation of replacement space in Birmingham. Failure to plan for or to effectively execute the plan for consolidation could result in a deterioration of service to policyholders and claimants and adversely impact Infinity’s revenues and profitability. 9 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements INFINITY PROPERTY AND CASUALTY CORPORATION 10-K ITEM 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None. 