ITEM 1A Risk Factors Infinity’s business operations face a number of risks. These risks should be read and considered with other information provided in this report. The economic slowdown has disproportionately impacted Infinity’s targeted consumers and could continue to adversely affect the Company’s premium revenue and profitability. The current downturn in the general economy- characterized by high levels of unemployment and falling consumer confidence- has adversely affected insurance buying behavior. We believe these economic factors have disproportionately affected consumers of nonstandard automobile insurance. Customers have chosen not to purchase coverage, to let coverage lapse on renewal or to opt for liability coverage only. These conditions may continue to adversely affect Infinity’s premium revenue and profitability. Because of the significant concentration of Infinity’s business in California, Infinity’s profitability may be adversely affected by negative developments in the California insurance market and economic environment. California, Infinity’s largest market, generated approximately 57% of Infinity’s gross written premium in 2009. Infinity’s California business also generates substantial underwriting profit. Consequently, Infinity’s revenues and profitability are affected by the dynamic nature of regulatory, legal, competitive and economic conditions in that state, including rising unemployment. Examples of potentially adverse regulatory or judicial developments or proposed legislation in California include laws aimed at curtailing unlawful immigration, restricting the use of territory as a rate factor, limiting the after-tax rate of return allowed an insurer, and restricting the type of compensation paid to independent brokers. These developments could negatively affect premium revenue or make it more expensive or less profitable for Infinity to conduct business in the state. Infinity relies upon a limited number of independent agents to generate a substantial portion of its business. If Infinity is unable to retain or increase the level of business that these independent agents place with Infinity or increase the level of business generated by other agents, the Company’s revenues would be negatively affected. Approximately 14.0% of the Company’s 12,600 independent agents accounted for approximately 80% of Infinity’s gross written premium in 2009. Infinity must compete with other insurance carriers for the business of these agents in an increasingly competitive marketplace. Some competitors offer superior systems to quote and process business, a larger variety of products, lower prices for insurance coverage, higher commissions or more attractive cash and non-cash incentives. Infinity is vulnerable to a reduction in the amount of business written through the independent agent distribution channel. Reliance on the independent agency as its primary distribution channel makes Infinity vulnerable to the growing popularity of directly to the consumer distribution channels, particularly the Internet. Approximately two-thirds of all personal automobile insurance sold in the United States is sold direct or through captive agents (agents employed by one company or selling only one company’s products) and approximately one-third is sold by independent agents. A material reduction in the amount of business generated through the independent agency channel could negatively impact Infinity’s revenues and growth opportunities. Legal, regulatory and legislative challenges to established practices in the areas of underwriting, claims handling and compensation issues are continually emerging and could adversely impact Infinity’s operating results or established methods of doing business. As automobile insurance industry practices and regulatory, judicial and consumer conditions change, challenges to prevailing industry practices continue to emerge. Examples of recent challenges to Infinity and industry practices relate to: • the use of an applicant’s credit, territory, occupation and other rating factors in making risk selection and pricing decisions; 9 Table of Contents INFINITY PROPERTY AND CASUALTY CORPORATION 10-K Risk Factors • the use of automated databases to assist in the adjustment of bodily injury and physical damage claims; and • the manner in which brokers are compensated and provided incentives. Some of these practices are the subject of ongoing litigation (See Note 15 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Legal Proceedings”). How or when these issues will ultimately be resolved is uncertain. The resolutions could, however, adversely impact Infinity’s operating results or its methods of doing business. The failure to maintain or to further develop reliable and efficient information and technology systems would be disruptive to Infinity’s operations and diminish its ability to compete successfully. Infinity is highly dependent on efficient and uninterrupted performance of its information technology and business systems. These systems quote, process and service Infinity’s business, and perform actuarial functions necessary for pricing and product development. These systems must also be able to undergo periodic modifications and improvements without interruptions or untimely delays in service. This capability is crucial to meeting growing customer demands for user friendly, online capabilities and convenient, quality service. The Company is undergoing fundamental changes and improvements to its claims and policy services platform. A failure or delay to achieve these improvements could interrupt certain processes or degrade business operations and would place Infinity at a competitive disadvantage. Profitability may be affected if Infinity fails to accurately price the risks it underwrites. Infinity’s profitability depends on its ability to set premium rates accurately. Pricing with accuracy is complicated by inflationary pressures on medical care, auto parts and repair services costs. It is also dependent on the availability of sufficient, reliable data on which to project both severity and frequency trends and timely recognition of changes in loss cost trends. This process poses more of a challenge in markets where Infinity has less pricing experience. Consequently, Infinity could under-price risks, which could negatively affect its profit margins, or overprice risks, which could reduce sales volume and competitiveness. Either scenario could adversely affect profitability. The inability to recruit, develop and retain key personnel could prevent Infinity from implementing its business strategy and negatively affect future growth and profitability. Successful implementation of Infinity’s business strategy will depend, in part, upon the continued services of its Chief Executive Officer, James Gober. Infinity’s future success will also depend on its ability to retain executives and key personnel, as well as attract new talent. The highly competitive nature of the industry, along with the advantages that larger, better known firms possess in the recruiting process, poses a challenge. The loss of any of the executive officers or key personnel, or the inability to attract and retain new talent, could prevent Infinity from fully implementing its business strategy and negatively affect future growth and profitability. Extra-contractual losses arising from bad faith claims could materially reduce Infinity’s profitability. In California, Florida, and other states where Infinity has substantial operations, the judicial climate, case law or statutory framework are often viewed as unfavorable toward an insurer in litigation brought against it by policyholders and third-party claimants. This tends to increase Infinity’s exposure to extra-contractual losses, or monetary damages beyond policy limits, in what are known as “bad faith” claims, for which reinsurance may be unavailable. Such claims have in the past, and may in the future, result in losses to Infinity that materially reduce the Company’s profitability. Infinity’s goodwill may be at risk for impairment if actual results regarding growth and profitability vary from Infinity’s estimates. At December 31, 2009, Infinity had $75.3 million, or approximately $5.58 per share, of goodwill. In accordance with the Goodwill topic of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification, Infinity performs impairment test procedures for goodwill on an annual basis. These procedures require Infinity to calculate the fair value of goodwill, compare the result to its carrying value and record the amount of any shortfall as an impairment charge. Infinity uses a variety of methods to test goodwill for impairment, including estimates of future discounted cash flows and comparisons of the market value of Infinity to its major competitors as well as the overall market. Infinity’s cash flow projections rely on assumptions that are subject to uncertainty, including premium growth, loss and loss adjustment expense ratios, interest rates and capital requirements. If actual results differ significantly from these assumptions, the fair value of 10 Table of Contents INFINITY PROPERTY AND CASUALTY CORPORATION 10-K Risk Factors Infinity’s goodwill could fall below its carrying value and the Company could be required to record an impairment charge. At September 30, 2009, test results indicated that the fair value of Infinity’s goodwill exceeded its carrying value and no impairment charge was required at that date. Additionally, there was no indication of impairment at December 31, 2009. 11 Table of Contents INFINITY PROPERTY AND CASUALTY CORPORATION 10-K ITEM 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None. 