ITEM 1A Risk Factors Infinity’s business operations face a number of risks. These risks should be read and considered with other information provided in this report. A deepening recession and further disruption in the financial markets may adversely affect Infinity’s future earnings, capital position and its ability to raise additional capital. The severe economic downturn and financial crisis has produced illiquidity in the capital markets, extreme market volatility, heightened exposure to interest rate and credit risks and reduced access to capital markets. These conditions have already contributed to material losses in the Company’s investment portfolio. Should such conditions persist or worsen, Infinity’s investment portfolio could suffer further losses and additional other-than-temporary impairments, which would negatively impact future earnings and Infinity’s capital position. Should Infinity seek additional capital, whether to maintain financial strength and credit ratings, support growth or fund business acquisitions, it may become more difficult or expensive to do so. The economic slowdown has disproportionately impacted Infinity’s targeted consumers and could adversely affect the Company’s premium revenue and profitability. The current downturn in the general economy- characterized by rising unemployment and falling consumer confidence- could adversely affect insurance buying behavior. These economic factors may also disproportionately affect consumers of nonstandard automobile insurance. Customers may choose not to purchase coverage, to let coverage lapse on renewal or to opt for liability coverage only. These conditions may adversely affect Infinity’s premium revenue and profitability. Because of the significant concentration of Infinity’s business in California, Infinity’s profitability may be adversely affected by negative developments in the California insurance market and economic environment. California, Infinity’s largest market, generated approximately 51% of Infinity’s gross written premium in 2008. Infinity’s California business also generates substantial underwriting profit. Consequently, Infinity’s revenues and profitability are affected by the dynamic nature of regulatory, legal, competitive and economic conditions in that state, including rising unemployment. Examples of potentially adverse regulatory or judicial developments or proposed legislation in California include laws aimed at curtailing unlawful immigration, restricting the use of territory as a rate factor, limiting the after-tax rate of return allowed an insurer, and restricting the type of compensation paid to independent brokers. These developments could negatively affect premium revenue or make it more expensive or less profitable for Infinity to conduct business in the state. Profitability may be affected if Infinity fails to accurately price the risks it underwrites. Infinity’s profitability depends on its ability to set premium rates accurately. Pricing with accuracy is complicated by inflationary pressures on medical care, auto parts and repair services costs. It is also dependent on the availability of sufficient, reliable data on which to project both severity and frequency trends and timely recognition of changes in loss cost trends. This process poses more of a challenge in markets where Infinity has less geographic presence and experience. Consequently, Infinity could underprice risks, which could negatively affect its profit margins, or overprice risks, which could reduce sales volume and competitiveness. Either scenario could adversely affect profitability. 9 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements INFINITY PROPERTY AND CASUALTY CORPORATION 10-K Risk Factors Extra-contractual losses arising from bad faith claims could materially reduce Infinity’s profitability. In California, Florida, and other states where Infinity has substantial operations, the judicial climate, case law or statutory framework are often viewed as unfavorable toward an insurer in litigation brought against it by policyholders and third-party claimants. This tends to increase Infinity’s exposure to extra-contractual losses, or monetary damages beyond policy limits, in what are known as “bad faith” claims, for which reinsurance may be unavailable. Such claims have in the past, and may in the future, result in losses to Infinity that materially reduce the Company’s profitability. The failure to maintain or to further develop reliable and efficient information and technology systems would be disruptive to Infinity’s operations and diminish its ability to compete successfully. Infinity is highly dependent on efficient and uninterrupted performance of its information technology and business systems. These systems quote, process and service Infinity’s business, and perform actuarial functions necessary for pricing and product development. These systems must also be able to undergo periodic modifications and improvements without interruptions or untimely delays in service. This capability is crucial to meeting growing customer demands for user friendly, online capabilities and convenient, quality service. The Company is undergoing fundamental changes and improvements to its claims and policy services platform. A failure or delay to achieve these improvements could interrupt certain processes or degrade business operations and would place Infinity at a competitive disadvantage. Legal, regulatory and legislative challenges to established practices in the areas of underwriting, claims handling and compensation issues are continually emerging and could adversely impact Infinity’s operating results or established methods of doing business. As automobile insurance industry practices and regulatory, judicial and consumer conditions change, challenges to prevailing industry practices continue to emerge. Examples of recent challenges to Infinity and industry practices relate to: • the use of an applicant’s credit, territory, occupation and other rating factors in making risk selection and pricing decisions; • the use of automated databases to assist in the adjustment of bodily injury and physical damage claims; and • the manner in which brokers are compensated and provided incentives. Some of these practices are the subject of ongoing litigation (See Note 14 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Legal Proceedings”). How or when these issues are ultimately resolved is uncertain. The resolutions could, however, adversely impact Infinity’s operating results or its methods of doing business. The inability to recruit, develop and retain key personnel could prevent Infinity from implementing its business strategy and negatively affect future growth and profitability. Successful implementation of Infinity’s business strategy will depend, in part, upon the continued services of its Chief Executive Officer, James Gober. Infinity’s future success will also depend on its ability to retain executives and key personnel, as well as attract new talent. The highly competitive nature of the industry, along with the advantages that larger, better known firms possess in the recruiting process, poses a challenge. The loss of any of the executive officers or key personnel, or the inability to attract and retain new talent, could prevent Infinity from fully implementing its business strategy and negatively affect future growth and profitability. Infinity relies upon a limited number of independent agents to generate a substantial portion of its business. If Infinity is unable to retain or increase the level of business that these independent agents place with Infinity or increase the level of business generated by other agents, the Company’s revenues would be negatively affected. Approximately 13.5% of the Company’s 12,500 independent agents account for approximately 80% of Infinity’s gross written premium in 2008. Infinity must compete with other insurance carriers for the business of these agents in an increasingly competitive marketplace. Some competitors offer superior systems to quote and process business, a larger variety of products, lower prices for insurance coverage, higher commissions or more attractive cash and non-cash incentives. Further, legal restrictions on the type of compensation provided to brokers, particularly in California, could negatively impact revenues in a given market. 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements INFINITY PROPERTY AND CASUALTY CORPORATION 10-K Risk Factors Infinity is vulnerable to a reduction in the amount of business written through the independent agent distribution channel. Reliance on the independent agency as its primary distribution channel makes Infinity vulnerable to the growing popularity of direct distribution channels, particularly the Internet. Approximately two-thirds of all personal automobile insurance sold in the United States is sold directly to the consumer or through captive agents (agents employed by one company or selling only one company’s products) and approximately one-third is sold by independent agents. A material reduction in the amount of business generated through the independent agency channel could negatively impact Infinity’s revenues and growth opportunities. 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements INFINITY PROPERTY AND CASUALTY CORPORATION 10-K ITEM 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None. 