ITEM 1A Risk Factors Infinity’s business operations face a number of risks. These risks should be read and considered with other information provided in this report. Recently-enacted California regulations may have a material adverse affect on the Company’s profitability. Effective April 2007, California adopted amended rate approval regulations (“Amended Regulations”), which, among other changes, establishes, for personal auto and most other lines of property and casualty insurance written in California, a maximum permitted after-tax rate of return on invested capital at an insurance company level. Published monthly, the January 2008 rate was at 9.66%. In October 2007, Infinity received approval for its base rates and class plan filings for its primary California program and implemented the changes effective January 1, 2008. The rate and class plan filings for Infinity’s secondary program are currently pending approval with the Department of Insurance. The rate impact of the primary and secondary programs is a rate decrease of approximately 11.2%. Profitability in 2008 could be materially adversely affected by such reductions, with the extent of the impact on overall profitability to be determined by the shift of business within California, the mix of California business as a percentage of Infinity’s countrywide total and the profitability of the states outside of California. Because of the significant concentration of Infinity’s business in California, Infinity’s profitability may be adversely affected by negative developments in the California insurance market. California, Infinity’s largest market, generated approximately 53% of Infinity’s gross written premiums in 2007. Infinity’s California business also generates substantial underwriting profit. Consequently, Infinity’s revenues and profitability are affected by the dynamic nature of regulatory, legal, economic and competitive conditions in that state. Recent examples of potentially adverse regulatory or judicial developments in California include regulations restricting the use of territory as a rate factor, limiting the after-tax rate of return allowed an insurer, and restricting the type of compensation paid to independent brokers. Also included in these regulations are measures regulating how an insurer establishes reasonable costs to be covered for paint and materials in automobile repairs and the manner in which an insurer can make referrals to an automobile repair shop. These developments could negatively affect premium revenue or make it more expensive or less profitable for Infinity to conduct business in the state. Cyclical conditions in the personal automobile insurance industry, particularly in the market for nonstandard insurance, could reduce Infinity’s profitability. The personal automobile industry is in the midst of a “soft market” cycle, which is characterized by heightened price competition and excess underwriting capacity. To enhance revenue growth during this cycle, some insurers may opt to reduce rates or loosen underwriting standards. Such actions may make it more challenging for Infinity to maintain or grow market share and achieve desired underwriting margins. The soft market cycle may also cause some companies that have traditionally focused on writing standard and preferred risks to compete with Infinity for the nonstandard business. New competition from such companies, some of which have greater financial, technical and operating resources than Infinity, could adversely impact Infinity’s profitability and growth prospects. Profitability may be affected if Infinity fails to accurately price the risks it underwrites. Infinity’s profitability depends on its ability to set premium rates accurately. Pricing with accuracy is complicated by inflationary pressures on medical care, auto parts and repair services costs. It is also dependent on the availability of sufficient, reliable data on which to project both severity and frequency trends and timely recognition of changes in loss cost trends. This process poses more of a challenge in markets where Infinity has less geographic presence and experience. Consequently, Infinity could underprice risks, which could negatively affect its profit margins, or overprice risks, which could reduce sales volume and competitiveness. Either scenario could adversely affect profitability. 9 Table of Contents INFINITY PROPERTY AND CASUALTY CORPORATION 10-K Risk Factors Extra-contractual losses arising from bad faith claims could materially reduce Infinity’s profitability. In California, Florida, and other states where Infinity has substantial operations, the judicial climate, case law or statutory framework are often viewed as unfavorable toward an insurer in litigation brought against it by policyholders and third-party claimants. This tends to increase Infinity’s exposure to extra-contractual losses, or monetary damages beyond policy limits, in what are known as “bad faith” claims, for which the Company has no reinsurance. Such claims have in the past, and may in the future, result in losses to Infinity that materially reduce the Company’s profitability (See Note 17 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Subsequent Events”). The failure to maintain or to further develop reliable and efficient information and technology systems would be disruptive to Infinity’s operations and diminish its ability to compete successfully. Infinity is highly dependent on efficient and uninterrupted performance of its information technology and business systems. These systems quote, process and service Infinity’s business, and perform actuarial functions necessary for pricing and product development. These systems must also be able to undergo periodic modifications and improvements, without interruptions or untimely delays in service. This capability is crucial to meeting growing customer demands for user friendly, online capabilities and convenient, quality service. The Company is currently undergoing fundamental changes and improvements to its service platform. A failure or delay to achieve these improvements could interrupt certain processes or degrade business operations and would place Infinity at a competitive disadvantage. Legal, regulatory and legislative challenges to established practices in the areas of underwriting, claims handling and compensation issues are continually emerging and could adversely impact Infinity’s operating results or established methods of doing business. As automobile insurance industry practices and regulatory, judicial and consumer conditions change, challenges to prevailing industry practices continue to emerge. Examples of recent challenges to Infinity and industry practices relate to: • the use of an applicant’s credit, territory and other rating factors in making risk selection and pricing decisions; • the manner in which brokers are compensated and provided incentives; • the use of automated databases to assist in the adjustment of bodily injury and physical damage claims; and • the terms and conditions surrounding reference to or the use of direct repair shops and towing services. Some of these practices are the subject of ongoing litigation (See Note 14 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Legal Proceedings”). How or when these issues are ultimately resolved is uncertain. The resolutions could, however, adversely impact Infinity’s operating results or its methods of doing business. The inability to recruit, develop and retain key personnel could prevent Infinity from implementing its business strategy and negatively affect future growth and profitability. Successful implementation of Infinity’s business strategy will depend, in part, upon the continued services of its Chief Executive Officer, James Gober, who is under contract with the Company through December 2009. Infinity’s future success will also depend on its ability to retain executives and key personnel, as well as attract new talent. The highly competitive nature of the industry, along with the advantages that larger, more well known competing firms possess in the recruiting process, pose a challenge. The loss of any of the executive officers or key personnel, or the inability to attract and retain new talent, could prevent Infinity from fully implementing its business strategy and negatively affect future growth and profitability. Infinity may not be able to retain or increase the level of business that independent agents and brokers place with Infinity, which could negatively affect revenues. Infinity must compete with other insurance carriers for independent agents’ and brokers’ business in an increasingly competitive marketplace. Some competitors offer superior systems to quote and process business, a larger variety of products, lower prices for insurance coverage, higher commissions or more attractive cash and non-cash incentives. Further, legal restrictions on the type of compensation provided to brokers, particularly in California could negatively impact revenues in a given market. 10 Table of Contents INFINITY PROPERTY AND CASUALTY CORPORATION 10-K Risk Factors Infinity is vulnerable to a reduction in the amount of business written through the independent agent distribution channel. Reliance on the independent agency as its primary distribution channel makes Infinity vulnerable to the growing popularity of direct distribution channels, particularly the Internet. Approximately two-thirds of all personal automobile insurance sold in the United States is sold direct or through captive agents (agents employed by one company or selling only one company’s products) and approximately one-third is sold by independent agents. A material reduction in the amount of business generated through the independent agency channel could negatively impact Infinity’s revenues and growth opportunities. Infinity itself has initiated two pilot projects to determine the feasibility of selling automobile insurance directly over the Internet or through owned retail stores. Such initiatives, even as pilot projects, may adversely affect business relations with some of Infinity’s independent agents which may result in a reduction in volume of business written on behalf of Infinity through these agents. 11 Table of Contents INFINITY PROPERTY AND CASUALTY CORPORATION 10-K ITEM 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None. 