Risk Factors Extra-contractual losses arising from bad faith claims could materially reduce Infinity’s profitability. In California, Florida, and other states where Infinity has substantial operations, the judicial climate, case law or statutory framework are often viewed as unfavorable toward an insurer in litigation brought against it by policyholders and third-party claimants. This tends to increase Infinity’s exposure to extra-contractual losses, or monetary damages beyond policy limits, in what are known as “bad faith” claims, for which reinsurance may be unavailable. Such claims have in the past, and may in the future, result in losses to Infinity that materially reduce the Company’s profitability. Infinity’s goodwill may be at risk for impairment if actual results regarding growth and profitability vary from Infinity’s estimates. At December 31, 2010, Infinity had $75.3 million, or approximately $6.04 per share, of goodwill. In accordance with the Goodwill topic of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification, Infinity performs impairment test procedures for goodwill on an annual basis. These procedures require Infinity to calculate the fair value of goodwill, compare the result to its carrying value and record the amount of any shortfall as an impairment charge. Infinity uses a variety of methods to test goodwill for impairment, including estimates of future discounted cash flows and comparisons of the market value of Infinity to its major competitors. Infinity’s cash flow projections rely on assumptions that are subject to uncertainty, including premium growth, loss and loss adjustment expense ratios, interest rates and capital requirements. If actual results differ significantly from these assumptions, the fair value of Infinity’s goodwill could fall below its carrying value and the Company could be required to record an impairment charge. At September 30, 2010, test results indicated that the fair value of Infinity’s goodwill exceeded its carrying value and no impairment charge was required at that date. Additionally, there was no indication of impairment at December 31, 2010. 10 Table of Contents INFINITY PROPERTY AND CASUALTY CORPORATION 10-K ITEM 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None. 