Item 1A. Risk Factors. We provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our business that, individually or in the aggregate, may cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should consider these factors, but understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties involved with investing in our stock. These risk factors should be read in connection with other information set forth in this Annual Report, including our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes. Risks Relating to Our Business Changes in the United States healthcare environment, or in laws relating to healthcare programs, and steps we take in anticipation of such changes, particularly as they relate to the ACA, could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The healthcare industry in the United States is subject to changing political, economic, and regulatory influences that may affect the procurement practices and operations of federal, state, and private healthcare organizations and agencies. In general, the ACA seeks to reduce healthcare costs and decrease over time the number of uninsured legal U.S. residents. Especially because of the ACA's strong emphasis on program integrity and cost containment, as well as provisions expanding the Medicaid-eligible population, we regard this legislation, on the whole, as creating potential new opportunities for the expansion of our business and service offerings. Until the ACA has been fully implemented, however, it will be difficult to predict its full impact, due not only to its complexity, but also to the wide range of other factors contributing to uncertainty of the healthcare landscape. These factors include the unpredictability of responses by states, providers, businesses, and other entities to the various choices available to them under the law, and the possibility that implementation of certain provisions of the legislation could still be blocked by court challenges, repealed by Congressional efforts, or otherwise modified at the state level. In addition, under the ACA, as states seek to contain costs with an expanding Medicaid population, we expect to continue to see an increase in the migration of Medicaid lives from fee-for-service to managed care plans. While we provide services to both markets, we do not have the same market penetration in the managed care market that we do in the state market, and the scope of our managed care contracts is not as broad as our contracts in the Medicaid fee-for-service space. The transition of Medicaid lives from fee-for-service to managed care requires that we implement new contracts, and expend additional resources to selling new services to managed care plans. We have made and will continue to make investments in personnel, infrastructure, and product development, as well as in the overall expansion of the services that we offer in order to support existing and new clients as they implement the requirements of the ACA. However, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be adversely affected if efforts to waive, modify, or otherwise change the ACA, in whole or in part, are successful, or if we are unable to adapt our products and services to meet changing requirements or expand service delivery into new markets. In sum, future legislative enactments may lower reimbursement rates, establish new payment models, increase or decrease government involvement in healthcare, and/or otherwise change the operating environment for our clients. Healthcare organizations may react to such changed circumstances and financial pressures, including those surrounding ACA implementation, by taking actions such as curtailing 11 Table of Contents or deferring their retention of service providers like us, which could reduce the demand for our services and, in turn, materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operational outcomes, and cash flow. Healthcare spending fluctuations, simplification of the healthcare payment process or other aspects of the healthcare financing system, budgetary pressures and/or programmatic changes diminishing the scope of program benefits, or limiting program integrity initiatives, could reduce the need for and the price of our services, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our projections and expectations are premised upon consistent growth rates in spending in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, the current healthcare financing system, and the need for our services within that existing framework. It is expected that enrollment in government healthcare programs will continue to grow, particularly under the ACA. According to CMS's projections for national health expenditures for 2011-2022, after two years of slowing growth, Medicaid enrollment is projected to grow by 15.5% in 2014. Total Medicaid spending is projected to increase at a rate of 12.2% in 2014 and at a rate of 8.3% in 2015. In addition, for 2014, Medicare spending is projected to grow by 5.1% to up to 7.9% in 2018. There are a number of factors that could impact these projections, including medical utilization by the new enrollees under the ACA and any legislative action taken to reduce spending. The complexity of the healthcare benefit and payment system and our experience in offering services that improve the ability of our clients to recover revenue that would otherwise be lost, often as a result of procedural inefficiencies and complexities, have contributed to the success of our service offerings. Complexities of the healthcare system that we seek to address include the coordination of benefits among multiple payers, and the determination of the appropriateness of payments to healthcare providers. Compounding this are budgetary pressures that may drive changes at the state level, including shifting lives from traditional fee-for-service plans into Medicaid managed care plans to achieve cost savings. The need for our services, the price clients are willing to pay for them and/or the scope and profitability of our contracts could be negatively affected by: lower than projected growth in the Medicare and Medicaid programs; a simplification of the healthcare benefit and payment system through legislative or regulatory changes at the federal or state level (for example, legislative changes impacting the scope of mandatory audits, limiting or reducing the amount of reviewable claims and/or the lookback period for review in areas where we conduct audits); unanticipated reductions in the scope of program benefits (such as, for example, state decisions to eliminate coverage of optional Medicaid services or shifting lives into managed care plans); and/or limits placed on ongoing program integrity initiatives (for example, in February 2014, CMS announced a "pause" in operations of the Medicare Recovery Audit Program). Modifications in provider billing behavior and habits, often in response to the success of our services, could also reduce the profitability of our contracts and reduce the need for our services. Any of these factors could cause our financial projections to differ from our actual results, and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow. Our operating results are subject to significant fluctuations due to factors including variability in the timing of when we recognize contingency fee revenue and the challenges associated with forecasting revenue for new products and services. As a result, you will not be able to rely on our operating results in any particular period as an indication of our future performance. Our operating results may fail to match our past or projected performance. We have experienced significant variations in our revenue between reporting periods due to the timing of periodic revenue recovery projects, and the timing and delays in third party payers' claim adjudication and ultimate payment to our clients where our fees are contingent upon such collections. Our revenue and operating results have also been impacted from period to period as a result of a number of factors, including fluctuations in sales 12 Table of Contents activity given our sales cycle of approximately three to eighteen months; the commencement, completion or termination of contracts during any particular quarter; expenses related to certain contracts which may be incurred in periods prior to revenue being recognized; the timing of government contract awards; the time required to resolve bid protests; technological and operational issues affecting our clients, healthcare providers and/or payers (for example, a failure to timely implement mandatory technical requirements relating to data, claims or payment processing); and regulatory changes or general economic conditions as they affect healthcare providers and payers. In addition, as we introduce new products and services, we may not be able to accurately estimate the costs and timing for implementing and completing contracts, making it difficult to reliably forecast revenue under those contracts. We cannot predict the extent to which future revenue variations could occur due to these or other factors. Consequently, our results of operations are subject to significant fluctuation and our results of operations for any particular quarter or fiscal year may not be indicative of results of operations for future periods. Our ability to execute on business plans will be adversely impacted if we fail to properly manage our growth. Our size and the scope of our business operations have expanded rapidly in recent years, through our marketing efforts and contract performance, as well as through our acquisitions of other companies. We expect that we will continue to grow and expand into new markets within the government and healthcare space; however, rapid growth and expansion carry costs and risks that if not properly managed, could adversely impact our business. To effectively manage our business plans, we must continue to improve our operational, financial, and management processes, while remaining competitive with our products and services. We must also be flexible and responsive to our clients' needs and to changes in the political, economic and regulatory environment in which we operate. The greater size and complexity of our expanding business puts additional strain on our administrative, operational, and financial resources and makes the determination of optimal resource allocation more difficult. A failure to anticipate or properly address the demands that our growth and diversification may have on our resources and existing infrastructure may result in unanticipated costs and inefficiencies and could negatively impact our ability to execute on our business plans, including sales, product development, and growth goals and opportunities, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our business could be adversely affected if we fail to maintain a high level of client retention, lose a major client or if clients elect to reduce the scope of our contracts or terminate them before their scheduled expiration dates. We generate a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of large clients at the federal and state level. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, our three largest clients accounted for approximately 32.6%, 29.8% and 18.0%, respectively, of our revenue from continuing operations. Our largest client in 2013 was CMS, which accounted for 22.3% of our total revenue for the year, primarily related to our Medicare Recovery Audit Program contract through HDI, which after a series of contract modifications, expires on April 30, 2016. In February 2013, CMS began the reprocurement process for the Medicare Recovery Audit Program contracts. After a protest was filed on the initial Request for Quote (RFQ), CMS took corrective action and between December 2013 and January 2014, issued five new RFQs for the Medicare Recovery Audit Program contracts. The new RFQs have been protested, including by us, and we are awaiting the GAO's decision on the protests, which is expected during the second quarter of 2014. On February 18, 2014, CMS announced its decision to pause the operations the current Medicare Recovery Auditors establishing June 1, 2014 as the last day that we can send in improper payment files for processing. Given that the Medicare Recovery Auditor contract with CMS is one of our largest contracts and represents a significant potential business opportunity for us, if we are not awarded a region or if we are awarded a region but on substantially different terms to our current contract, or if the reprocurement process takes longer than we anticipate our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow would be materially adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents Our growth strategy includes aggressively pursuing new opportunities, leveraging our expertise to acquire new clients in the state, federal, employer, and commercial markets, as well as expanding our current contracts to provide new services to current clients. Our success also depends on relationships we develop with our clients that enable us to understand our clients' needs and deliver solutions and services that are tailored to meet those needs. If a client is dissatisfied with the quality of our work, or if our products, technical infrastructure, or services do not comply with the provisions of our contractual agreements or applicable regulatory requirements, we could incur additional costs that may impair the profitability of a contract and damage our ability to obtain additional work from that client, or other current or prospective clients. Clients who are dissatisfied with our performance may demand refunds, or other compensation, which could have an adverse affect on our operating results. In particular, since several of our contracts, including with many of our largest clients, can be terminated upon short notice for convenience by either party, dissatisfied clients might seek to exit existing contracts prior to their scheduled expiration date and could direct future business to our competitors. From time to time, government clients may face pressure from stakeholders (including healthcare providers and legislators), and/or other financial pressures that may cause them to redefine the scope of our contracts (by, for example, significantly reducing the volume of data that we are permitted to audit), terminate contracts for our services that may be regarded as non-essential, and/or reduce the scope of our contracts and use their own staff to perform some of the services we offer. We also occasionally face challenges in obtaining timely or full payments for our properly-provided services from clients and parties who we provide services to, despite our right to prompt and full payment under the terms of our contracts. Some of our contracts contain liquidated damages provisions and financial penalties related to performance failures. If liquidated damages or other financial penalties are assessed against us, we may be required to disclose these damages or penalties in connection with future bids for services with other clients, which may reduce our chances of winning such procurements. Although we have liability insurance, the policy coverage and limits may not be adequate to provide protection against all potential liabilities. Under the terms of one of our contracts, we have an outstanding irrevocable letter of credit for $4.6 million, which we established against our existing revolving credit facility. If a claim is made against this letter of credit or any similar instrument that we obtain in the future, we would be required to reimburse the issuer of the letter of credit for the amount of the claim. Negative publicity related to our performance, operations, or client relationships, regardless of its accuracy, may damage our reputation and business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts with current and prospective clients. If we lose a major client, if we fail to maintain a high level of client retention, if our clients reduce the scope of our contracts or limit future contracting opportunities, or if we are exposed to significant costs, liabilities, or negative publicity, our business, financial condition, reputation, results of operations and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. We face significant competition for our services and we expect competition to increase. Competition for our services is increasing in the markets we serve. We expect to encounter additional competition as we address new markets and as new competitors enter our existing markets. Our current competitors include the other Medicare Recovery Audit Contractors; other claim audit vendors; fraud, waste, and abuse claim edit and predictive analysis companies; primary claims processors; numerous regional utilization management companies; as well as healthcare consulting firms. To remain competitive, we must continually expand our existing business and service capabilities and develop new products and services for introduction into new and existing markets in both the government and commercial healthcare space, which will require not only that we make substantial financial and resource investments, but also that we quickly respond to new or emerging technologies, changes in client requirements, and changes in the political, economic or regulatory environment in the healthcare industry 14 Table of Contents and other associated industries. We cannot assure you that the product development initiatives or markets that we prioritize will yield the gains that we anticipate, if any. Certain markets in which we are currently, and hope to remain, a market leader are being targeted by formidable competitors with national reputations, and their success in attracting business or winning contract bids could significantly and adversely affect our business. In addition, in some of the markets that we serve or hope to serve, current and prospective clients alike could develop in-house capacities to perform the services we offer, and could therefore decide not to engage us. Some of our competitors have also formed business alliances with other competitors, which may affect our ability to work with potential clients. In certain cases, our competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, product development, marketing, and other resources and market recognition than we have, and thus may be in a position to devote greater resources to the sale of their services and to developing and implementing new and improved systems and solutions for the client markets that we serve. In some areas of our business, we could face potential competition from our own subcontractors, who may use their position to establish their own relationships with our clients and seek to become prime contractors on similar work in the future. Although we attempt to protect ourselves against such conduct through the terms of our subcontracts, a subcontractor may determine that the benefits of violating its contract with us outweigh the costs and risks. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competitors. Further, a failure to be responsive to our existing and potential clients' needs could hinder our ability to maintain or expand our client base, hire and retain new employees, pursue new business opportunities, complete future acquisitions, and operate our business effectively. In addition, if as a result of increased competition we are forced to lower our pricing or if demand for our services decreases, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. We must comply with laws and regulations regarding individual privacy and information security, including taking steps to ensure that our workforce, vendors, subcontractors, and other business associates who obtain access to sensitive information about individuals maintain its confidentiality. Our failure, or a failure by our business associates, to comply with those laws and regulations, whether or not inadvertent, could subject us to legal actions, fines and penalties, and negatively impact our reputation and operations. Our business and operations depend upon our ability to safeguard protected health information (PHI) of individuals, as well as other financial, confidential and proprietary information belonging to our clients, our subsidiaries, and third parties (e.g., private insurance companies, financial institutions) from which we obtain information. We process, transmit, and store personally identifiable information relating to millions of individuals, primarily in our role as a service provider, and also to some extent as an employer. The use of individually identifiable data by our business is regulated through federal and state laws and rules, which are changed frequently by legislation, regulatory issuances, and/or administrative interpretation. Various state laws address the use and disclosure of individually identifiable financial and health data. Some are derived from the privacy and security provisions in the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act or the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ("HIPAA"), as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act ("HITECH"), and regulations implementing these laws. HIPAA also imposes standards and requirements on our business associates (as this term is defined in the HIPAA regulations), including our subcontractors and many of our vendors. In January 2013 the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services issued Final Omnibus Privacy, Security, Breach Notification, and Enforcement Rules that significantly modify and supplement many of the standards and regulations that govern our conduct and obligations under HIPAA and HITECH, as well as the conduct and obligations of business associates, subcontractors, and covered entities (as this term is defined in the HIPAA regulations) with which we work, and significantly increase the risk of liability to us and these other entities. Even though we have always taken measures to comply with all applicable 15 Table of Contents regulations and to ensure that our business associates and subcontractors are in compliance with these laws, regulations, and rules, and will increase our efforts in light of the new HIPAA rules, we still have less than complete control over our business associates' and subcontractors' actions and practices. Because the new HIPAA rules impose direct liability on business associates, we will need to continue to review, revise, and re-execute new business associate agreements with our downstream business associates and subcontractors, and similarly, covered entities with whom we work as business associates are requiring us to execute new agreements, which could result in delays in our working relationships with such parties. We may incur increased expenses in connection with necessary systems changes and the development of new administrative and compliance processes as we work to comply with these new rules and regulations and maintain our compliance with other applicable law. Such proposals, requirements, new rules and regulations, and new agreements also may impose further restrictions on our use of PHI that is housed in one or more of our administrative databases, and may make it more difficult to gain the cooperation of third parties in disclosing information to us that is necessary for our operations. All of these factors contribute to the possibility that implementation of the new HIPAA rules may increase our liability exposure, place additional strain on our resources, and result in delays in, interruptions of, and difficulties in our operations that cannot be easily predicted at this early stage of an enhanced regulatory and enforcement regime. Among other changes and additions in the new HIPAA rules that will affect our work and compliance are significant changes in the data breach rule that will potentially make more incidents of inadvertent disclosure reportable and subject to penalties. We, or our subcontractors that receive or utilize confidential information on our behalf, may become subject to a security breach, which may result in unauthorized access to our or our subcontractors' secure facilities and/or the protected information. We cannot entirely eliminate the danger that our systems or stored data may be vulnerable to breach or could be corrupted by a computer virus or other malware, that the physical security of our facilities could be compromised, or that a corrupt or rogue employee may violate security protocols or misuse access to our systems, data, resources, or premises. In addition, we could be exposed to data breach risk from lost or stolen laptops, other portable media or misdirected mailings containing PHI, or other forms of administrative or operational error. If we, or our subcontractors fail to comply with applicable laws or if unauthorized parties gain physical access to one of our facilities or electronic access to our information systems and steal or misuse confidential information or if such information is misdirected, lost or stolen during transmission or transport, in addition to the damage to our reputation, potential loss of existing clients and difficulty attracting new clients, we could be exposed to, among other things, unfavorable publicity, governmental inquiry and oversight, allegations by our clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations, litigation by affected parties and possible financial obligations for damages related to the theft or misuse of such information, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our business depends on effective information processing systems that are compliant with current HIPAA transaction and code set standards and the integrity of the data in, and operations of, our information systems, as well as those of other entities that provide us with data or receive data from us. Our ability to conduct our operations and accurately report our financial results depends on the integrity of the data in our information systems and the integrity of the processes performed by those systems. These information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs and handle our expansion and growth. In addition, as a result of our acquisition activities, we have acquired additional systems that have to be phased out or integrated with our current systems. Despite our testing and quality control measures, we cannot be certain that errors or system deficiencies will not be found and that remediation can be done in a timeframe that is acceptable to our clients or that client relationships will not be impaired by the occurrence of errors or the 16 Table of Contents need for remediation. In addition, implementation of upgrades and enhancements may cost more or take longer than originally expected and may require more testing than originally anticipated. Given the large amount of data that we collect and manage, it is possible that hardware failures or errors or technical deficiencies in our systems could result in data loss or corruption or cause the information that we collect, utilize, or disseminate to be incomplete or contain inaccuracies that our clients regard as significant. Through several of the services that we provide, situations arise in which the accuracy of our data analysis or the content and quality of our work product is central to the disposition of claims, controversies or litigation between our clients and third parties. When such situations arise, we may be required to allocate significant resources to fulfilling our contractual obligations to provide our clients with full and complete access to records, analysis, and back-up documentation of our work. Assuring our capacity to fulfill these obligations, as well as actually fulfilling such obligations, can also impose significant burdens on our infrastructure for data storage, maintenance, and processing, requiring us to prioritize maintenance of and access to these resources, or incur additional costs to supplement them in order to satisfy our obligations. Should the frequency or scope of situations in which clients invoke these obligations increase to a substantial degree (as could occur with the expansion of our Medicare and Medicaid RAC work), the resulting strain on our personnel, data storage, and computing resources could negatively impact other business operations. Moreover, because many of the services we furnish to clients involve submitting high volumes of monetary claims to third parties (such as health insurance carriers) and processing payments from them, the efficiency and effectiveness of our own operations are to some degree dependent on the claims processing systems of these third parties and their compliance with any new transaction and code set standards. By October 1, 2014, health plans, commercial payers and healthcare providers are required to transition to the new ICD-10 coding system, which greatly expands the number and detail of diagnosis codes used for inpatient, outpatient and physician claims. The transition to new transaction and code set standards is expensive, time-consuming and may initially result in disruptions or delays as we and other stakeholders make necessary system adjustments to be fully compliant and capable of exchanging data. In addition, we may experience delays in processing claims and therefore earning our fees if the third parties with whom we work are not in full compliance with these new standards in the required timeframe. Claims processing systems failures, incapacities, or deficiencies internal to these third-parties could significantly delay or obstruct our ability to recover money for our clients, and thereby interfere with our performance under our contracts and our ability to generate revenue from those contracts in the timeframe we anticipate, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may be precluded from bidding on and/or performing certain work due to other work we currently perform. Various laws, regulations, and administrative policies prohibit companies from performing work for government agencies in capacities that might be viewed to create an actual or perceived conflict of interest. In particular, CMS has stringent conflict of interest rules, which can limit our bidding for specific work for CMS, or for other contracts that might conflict, or be perceived by CMS to conflict, with contractual work for CMS. State governments and managed care organizations also have conflict of interest restrictions that could limit our ability to bid for certain work. Conflict of interest rules and standards change frequently, and are subject to varying interpretations and varying degrees and consistency of enforcement at the federal, state and municipal levels, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in navigating these restrictions. The expansion and diversification of our business operations increases the potential that clients or potential clients will perceive conflicts of interest between our various subsidiaries, products, services, activities, and client relationships. Such conflicts, whether real or perceived, could result in loss of contracts or require us to divest ourselves of certain existing business in order to qualify for new contract awards. We may be required to adjust our current management and personnel structure, as well as our 17 Table of Contents corporate organization and entity structure, in order to appropriately mitigate conflicts and otherwise accommodate the needs of a company that is expanding in size and complexity. Our failure to devote sufficient care, attention, and resources to managing these adjustments may result in technical or administrative errors that could expose us to potential liability or adverse regulatory action. If we are prevented from expanding our business due to real or perceived conflicts of interest, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. System interruptions or failures could expose us to liability and harm our business. Our data and operation centers are essential to our business and our operations depend on our ability to maintain and protect our information systems. We attempt to mitigate the potential adverse effects of a disruption, relocation, or change in operating environment; however, we cannot assure you that the situations we plan for and the amount of insurance coverage that we maintain will be adequate in any particular case. In addition, despite system redundancy and security measures, our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from, among other sources: •power loss, transmission cable cuts, and telecommunications failures; •damage or interruption caused by fire, earthquake, and other natural disasters; •attacks by hackers or nefarious actors; •computer viruses and other malware, or software defects; and •physical break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, terrorist attacks, and other events beyond our control. If we encounter a business interruption, if we fail to effectively maintain our information systems, if it takes longer than we anticipate to complete required upgrades, enhancements or integrations; or if our business continuity plans and business interruption insurance do not effectively compensate on a timely basis, we could suffer operational disruptions, disputes with clients, civil or criminal penalties, regulatory problems, increases in administrative expenses, loss of our ability to produce timely and accurate financial and other reports, or other adverse consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. If we do not successfully integrate the businesses that we acquire, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Historically, to achieve our strategic goals, we have made a significant number of acquisitions that have expanded the products and services we offer, provided a presence in a complementary business lines, or expanded our geographic presence and/or client base. Business acquisitions and combinations involve a number of risk factors that could affect our operations, including: •diversion of management's attention and other resources; •our ability to maintain relationships with the clients of the acquired business and further develop the acquired business; •our ability to cross-sell our services and the services of the acquired businesses to our respective clients; •compliance with regulatory requirements and avoiding potential conflicts of interest in markets that we serve; •our ability to integrate and coordinate organizations that are geographically diverse and may have different business cultures; •transition of operations, users, and clients to our existing platforms or the integration of data, systems, and technology platforms with ours; 18 Table of Contents •our ability to retain or replace key personnel; •entry into unfamiliar markets; •assumption of unanticipated legal or financial liabilities and/or negative publicity related to prior acts by the acquired entity; •litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, clients, former stockholders or third parties; •becoming significantly leveraged as a result of incurring debt to finance an acquisition; •unanticipated operating, accounting, or management difficulties in connection with the acquired entities; and/or •impairment of acquired intangible assets, including goodwill, and dilution to our earnings per share. We intend to continue our strategy of undertaking acquisitions to expand and diversify our business. We cannot, however, assure you that we will be able to identify any potential acquisition candidates or consummate any additional acquisitions or that any future acquisitions will be successfully integrated or will be advantageous to us. Entities we acquire may not achieve the revenue and earnings we anticipated or their liabilities may exceed our expectations. We could face integration issues pertaining to the internal controls and operational functions of the acquired companies and we also could fail to realize cost efficiencies or synergies that we anticipated when selecting our acquisition candidates. Client dissatisfaction or performance problems with a particular acquired entity could materially and adversely affect our reputation as a whole. We may be unable to profitably manage entities that we have acquired or that we may acquire, or we may fail to integrate them successfully without incurring substantial expenses, delays, or other problems. If we fail to successfully integrate the businesses that we acquire, we may not realize any of the benefits that we anticipated in connection with the acquisitions and our business, financial condition, reputation, results of operations and cash flow could be adversely affected. We are subject to extensive government regulation and our government contracts are subject to audit and investigation rights. Any violation of the laws and regulations applicable to us or a negative audit or investigation finding could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Much of our business is regulated by the federal government and the states in which we operate. The laws and regulations governing our operations are generally intended to benefit and protect individual citizens, including government program beneficiaries and health plan members, and providers, rather than shareholders. The government agencies administering these laws and regulations have broad latitude to enforce them. These laws and regulations, along with the terms of our government contracts, regulate how we do business, what services we offer and how we interact with our clients, providers, other healthcare payers, and the public. We are subject, on an ongoing basis, to various governmental reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with our contracts and applicable laws and regulations. In addition, because we receive payments from federal and state governmental agencies, we are subject to various laws, including the federal False Claims Act and similar state statutes, which permit government law enforcement agencies to institute suits against us for violations and, in some cases, to seek double or treble damages, penalties, and assessments. In addition, private citizens, acting as whistleblowers, can sue on behalf of the government under the "qui tam" provisions of the federal False Claims Act and similar statutory provisions in many states. In addition, the expansion of our operations into new markets, products, and services may expose us to requirements and potential liabilities under additional statutes and legislative schemes that have previously not been relevant to our business, such as banking and credit reporting statutes, that may both increase demands on our resources for compliance activities and subject us to potential penalties for noncompliance with statutory and regulatory standards. Increased involvement in analytic or audit work 19 Table of Contents that can have an impact on the eligibility of individuals for medical coverage or specific benefits could increase the likelihood and incidence of our being subjected to scrutiny or legal actions by parties other than our clients, based on alleged mistakes or deficiencies in our work, with significant resulting costs and strain on our resources. If the government discovers improper or illegal activities in the course of audits or investigations, we may be subject to various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions and debarment from doing business with the government. The risks to which we are subject, particularly under the federal False Claims Act and similar state fraud statutes, have increased in recent years due to legislative changes that have (among other amendments) expanded the definition of a false claim to include, potentially, any unreimbursed overpayment received from, or other monetary debt owed to, a government agency. This subjects us to potential liability for a false claim, for example, where we may be overcharged for services by a subcontractor and may pass that charge on to a government client, or where we may have a good faith disagreement with a government agency's view of whether an overpayment has occurred. If we are found to be in violation of any applicable law or regulation, or if we receive an adverse review, audit or investigation, any resulting negative publicity, penalties or sanctions could have an adverse affect on our reputation in the industry, impair our ability to compete for new contracts and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We may be a party to litigation, regulatory, or other dispute resolution proceedings. Adverse judgments or settlements in any of these proceedings could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We are subject to lawsuits and other claims that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. These may include lawsuits and claims related to contracts, subcontracts, employment of our workforce, or compliance with any of a wide array of state and federal statutes, rules, and regulations that pertain to different aspects of our business. We may also be required to initiate expensive litigation or other proceedings to protect our business interests. In addition, because of the payments we receive from government clients, we may be subject to unexpected inquiries, investigations, legal actions or enforcement proceedings pursuant to the False Claims Act, healthcare fraud and abuse laws or similar legislation. Any investigations, settlements or adverse judgments stemming from such legal disputes or other claims may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us, as well as reputational injury that could adversely affect our market position. In addition, litigation and other legal claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management's view of currently pending legal matters may change in the future. Those uncertainties include, but are not limited to, costs of litigation, unpredictable judicial or jury decisions, and the differing laws and judicial proclivities regarding damage awards among the states in which we operate. Unexpected outcomes in such legal proceedings, or changes in management's evaluation or predictions of the likely outcomes of such proceedings (possibly resulting in changes in established reserves), could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our significant indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to operate our business, and we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our debt service obligations. In connection with our acquisition of HDI, we entered into a five-year, revolving and term secured credit agreement, which we refer to as the 2011 Credit Agreement, with certain financial institutions and Citibank, N.A. as Administrative Agent. In May 2013, we amended and restated the 2011 Credit Agreement and entered into a $500 million five-year, amended and restated revolving credit agreement, which we refer to as the 2013 Credit Agreement. Under specified circumstances, the revolving credit facility under the 2013 Credit Agreement can be increased or one or more incremental term loan facilities can be added. Our obligations and any amounts due under the 2013 Credit Agreement are guaranteed by our material subsidiaries and secured by a security interest in all or substantially all of our and our subsidiaries' physical assets. As of December 31, 2013, the outstanding principal balance due on the revolving credit facility was $232.8 million. 20 Table of Contents Our outstanding indebtedness and any additional indebtedness we incur may have important consequences for us, including, without limitation, that: we may be required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay the principal of and interest on our indebtedness; our indebtedness and leverage may increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressures; our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and for general corporate and other purposes may be limited; and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry may be limited. Our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our outstanding revolving credit facility depends upon our future performance and our ability to generate cash flow. In addition, under the terms of the 2013 Credit Agreement, we are required to comply with specified financial and operating covenants, which may limit our ability to operate our business as we otherwise might operate it. Our obligations under the 2013 Credit Agreement may be accelerated upon the occurrence of an event of default, which includes customary events of default including, without limitation, payment defaults, failure to perform affirmative covenants, failure to refrain from actions or omissions prohibited by negative covenants, the inaccuracy of representations or warranties, cross-defaults, bankruptcy and insolvency related defaults, defaults relating to judgments, defaults due to certain ERISA related events and a change of control default. If not cured, an event of default would result in any amounts outstanding, including any accrued interest and unpaid fees, becoming immediately due and payable, which would require us to, among other things: seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets, refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness, sell selected assets, and/or reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt. In addition, any such financing or refinancing might not be available on economically favorable terms or at all. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations or are forced to take additional measures to be able to service our indebtedness, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We obtain a significant portion of our business through competitive bidding in response to government requests for proposals (RFPs). We may not be awarded contracts through this process on the same level in the future as in the past and may not re-win contracts. If we fail to accurately estimate the factors upon which we base our contract pricing, we may generate less profit than expected or incur losses on those contracts. In order to market our services to clients, we are often required to respond to government-issued RFPs to compete for a contract. This requires that we accurately estimate our cost structure for servicing a proposed contract, the time required to establish operations, and likely terms of any proposals submitted by our competitors. We must also assemble and submit a large volume of information within an RFP's rigid timetable, and our ability to provide timely and complete responses to RFPs will greatly impact our business. Should any part of our business suffer a negative event, for example, a client dispute or a government inquiry, we may be required to disclose the occurrence of that event in an RFP, which could impact our ability to win the contract at issue. We cannot assure you that we will continue to obtain contracts in response to government RFPs, that we will be successful in re-winning contracts after they expire, or that our proposals will result in profitable contracts. In addition, if we are unable to win particular contracts, we may be precluded from entering certain client markets for a number of years. If we are unable to consistently win new contract awards over any extended period, our business and prospects will be adversely affected. Our pricing is dependent on our internal forecasts and predictions about our projects and the marketplace, which might be based on limited data and could turn out to be inaccurate. A majority of our contracts are contingency fee based. For contingency fee based offerings, we receive our fee based on recoveries received by our clients. To earn a profit on a contingency fee offering, we must accurately estimate costs involved and outcomes likely to be achieved, and assess the probability of completing multiple tasks and transactions within the contracted time period. Some of our contracts with the federal government are cost-plus or time-and-material based. Revenue on cost-plus contracts is recognized based 21 Table of Contents on costs incurred plus an estimate of the negotiated fee earned. If we do not accurately estimate the costs and timing for completing projects, or if we encounter increased or unexpected costs, delays, failures, liabilities, or risks, including those outside our control, our contracts could prove unprofitable for us or yield lower profit margins than anticipated. Although we believe that we have recorded adequate provisions in our financial statements for losses on our fixed-price and cost-plus contracts where applicable, as required under United States generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP, we cannot assure you that our contract loss provisions will be adequate to cover all actual future losses. The U.S. government's determination to award a contract may be challenged by an interested party. As a result, even if we win a bid, the contract may be delayed or may never be implemented if such a challenge is successful. The laws and regulations governing procurements of goods and services by the U.S. government provide procedures by which other bidders and other interested parties may challenge the award of a government contract. Challenges or protests to government awards may be filed even if there are no valid legal grounds on which to base the protest. If any such protests are filed, the government agency may decide to withhold a contract award or suspend performance under the contract while the protest is being considered by the GAO or the applicable federal court, or may choose to take corrective action on its own, in each case, potentially delaying the start of the contract. If we are the original awardee of a protested contract, we could be forced to expend considerable funds to defend a potential award, while also incurring expenses to maintain our ability to timely start implementation in case the protest is resolved in our favor. In the event of irregularities we perceive or learn of in the award or bidding process, we also may be forced to file protests in response to RFP awards to competitors, at significant cost to us. If a protest is successful or if the government agency chooses to take corrective action and does not uphold its original award, a contract award may be terminated or the government agency may opt to solicit new bids and award a new contract. If a contract we are awarded is protested, it can take many months over several quarterly periods to resolve protests, and even if it is resolved in our favor, the resulting delay in the start-up and funding of our work under the contracts may cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. We cannot assure you that we will prevail if a contract we are awarded is protested or that if we protest an award we will be successful. Extended implementation delays or successful challenges of our contract awards could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We depend on many different entities to supply information. If we are unable to successfully manage our relationships with a number of these suppliers, the quality and availability of our services may be harmed. We obtain data used in our services from many sources, including commercial insurance plans, financial institutions, managed care organizations, government entities, and non-government clients. From time to time, challenges arise in managing and maintaining our relationships with these entities that are not our clients, and that furnish information to us pursuant to a combination of voluntary cooperation and legal obligation under laws and regulations that are often subject to differing interpretation. If a number of information sources or suppliers cease to be able or willing to provide us with certain data under terms of use that are acceptable to us and our clients, or if the applicable regulatory and law enforcement regime for use and protection of this data changes in a way that imposes unacceptable or unreasonable conditions or risks on us or disincentivizes our suppliers to continue to provide us with data, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain new agreements with alternative data suppliers on terms favorable to us, or at all. If we are unable to identify and reach the requisite agreements with suitable alternative data suppliers and integrate these data sources into our service offerings, we could experience service disruptions, increased costs, reduced quality of our services, and/or performance penalties under our client contracts. Our data suppliers may conclude that some uses of data for our clients are not permitted by our agreements, and seek to limit or end our access and use of certain data for particular purposes or clients. They may also make errors in compiling, transmitting, or accurately characterizing data, or may have 22 Table of Contents technological limitations that interfere with our receipt or use of the data we are relying upon them to provide. Loss of our data suppliers, discontinued access to certain data or a lack of integrity of data that our suppliers provide could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow. We may rely on subcontractors and partners to provide clients with a single-source solution or we may serve as a subcontractor to a third party prime contractor. From time to time, we may engage subcontractors, teaming partners, or other third parties to provide our clients with a single-source solution for a broader range of service needs. Similarly, we are and may in the future be engaged as a subcontractor to a third party prime contractor. Subcontracting arrangements pose unique risks to us because we do not have control over the client relationship, and our ability to generate revenue under the subcontract is dependent on the prime contractor, its performance and relationship with the client, and its relationship with us. While we believe that we perform appropriate due diligence on our prime contractors, subcontractors, and teaming partners, we cannot guarantee that those parties will comply with the terms set forth in their agreements with us or in the case of a prime contractor, the agreement with the client, be reasonable in construing their contractual rights and obligations, or always act appropriately in dealing with us or clients. We may have disputes with our prime contractors, subcontractors, teaming partners, or other third parties arising from the quality and timeliness of work being performed, client concerns, contractual interpretations, or other matters. Performance deficiencies or misconduct by our prime contractors or subcontractors or perceived performance deficiencies by us could result in a contract termination and/or could adversely affect our client relationships and reputation. We may be exposed to liability if we lose or terminate a subcontractor or teaming partner due to a dispute, and subsequently have difficulty engaging an appropriate replacement or otherwise performing their functions in-house, such that we fail to fulfill our contractual obligations to our client. In the event a prime contract, under which we serve as a subcontractor, is terminated, whether for non-performance by the prime contractor or otherwise, then our subcontract will similarly terminate and we could face contractual liability and the resulting contract loss could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We use software vendors, utility providers and network providers in our business and could be materially adversely affected if they cannot deliver or perform as expected or if our relationships with them are terminated or otherwise change. Our ability to service our clients and deliver and implement solutions requires that we work with certain third party providers, including software vendors, utility and network providers, and depends on their meeting our expectations in both timeliness and quality. Our business could be materially and adversely affected and we might incur significant additional liabilities if the services provided by these third party providers do not meet our expectations, or if they terminate or refuse to renew their relationships with us, or were to offer their products to us in the future on less advantageous terms. In addition, while there are backup systems in many of our operating facilities, an extended outage of utility or network services may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights the value of our products and services may be diminished and our business may be adversely affected. Our expanding operations and efforts to develop new products and services also make protection of our intellectual property more critical. The steps we have taken to deter misappropriation of intellectual property may be insufficient to protect our proprietary information. From time to time, competitors have attempted to use state open records and/or federal Freedom of Information Act laws to try and obtain our proposal responses. We cannot be certain that our efforts to protect these confidential and proprietary elements will always be successful, due to the many factors that go into the various state and federal 23 Table of Contents decisions to release information (even in spite of our objections and responses). In addition, misappropriation of our intellectual property by third parties, or any disclosure or dissemination of our business intelligence, queries, algorithms and other similar information by any means, could undermine any competitive advantage we currently derive or may derive. On the other hand, third parties may claim that we are infringing upon or misappropriating their intellectual property. Any of these situations could result in our expending significant time and incurring expense to defend ourselves or to enforce our intellectual property rights and could result in our being prevented from furnishing certain products and services. Although we have taken measures to protect our proprietary rights, we cannot assure you that others will not compete with our business by offering products or concepts that are substantially similar to ours. If the protection of our proprietary rights is inadequate to prevent unauthorized use or appropriation by third parties or our employees, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished and competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our products and services, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. The federal government or a state may limit or prohibit the outsourcing of certain programs or functions, or may refuse to grant consents and/or waivers necessary to permit private entities, such as us, to perform certain elements of government programs or functions; or other state or federal limitations on our outsourcing of work or vendor use may obstruct cost-effective performance of our contracts. The federal government or a state could limit or prohibit private contractors like us from operating or performing elements of certain government functions or programs. State or local governments could be required to operate such programs with government employees as a condition of receiving federal funding. Moreover, under current law, in order to privatize certain functions of government programs, the federal government must grant a consent and/or waiver to the petitioning state or local agency. If the federal government does not grant a necessary consent or waiver, the state or local agency will be unable to outsource that function to a private entity, such as us. This situation could eliminate a contracting opportunity or reduce the value of an existing contract. Similarly, other state or federal limitations on outsourcing certain types of work to vendors that supplement our own workforce could make it more difficult for us to fulfill our contracts in a cost-effective manner. Certain segments of our operations use or involve vendor or subcontractor personnel located outside of the United States, who may (under carefully controlled circumstances) access certain PHI in the course of assisting us with various elements of the services we provide to our clients. There is, however, increasing pressure from an expanding number of sources to prohibit the use of off-shore labor, particularly on government contracts. The federal government and a number of states have considered laws and/or issued rules and orders that would limit, restrict or wholly prohibit the use of off-shore labor in performance of government contracts, or impose sanctions for the use of such resources. Some of our clients have already chosen to contractually limit or restrict our ability to use off-shore resources. Intensified restrictions of this type or associated penalties could raise our costs of doing business, expose us to unexpected fines or penalties, increase the prices we must charge to clients to realize a profit, and eliminate or significantly reduce the value of existing contracts or potential contract opportunities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to realize the entire book value of goodwill and other intangible assets from acquisitions. As of December 31, 2013, we have approximately $361.5 million of goodwill and $95.3 million of intangible assets. We assess goodwill and other intangible assets at least annually for impairment in the second quarter of each year, or more frequently if certain events or circumstances warrant. In the event that the book value of goodwill is impaired, any such impairment would be charged to earnings in the period of impairment. We cannot assure you that future impairment of goodwill will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. 24 Table of Contents Our success may depend on the continued service and availability of key personnel and we may be unable to attract and retain sufficient qualified personnel to properly operate our business. Our success and future growth is dependent upon the ability of our executive officers and our senior managers to generate business and execute on our business plans successfully. We have experienced executive turnover in the past year and have hired a number of new executive officers. We may face challenges in effectively managing our operations as they learn about our company and business and develop working relationships with our other executive officers and their staff. Our ability to execute on our business plans will be impacted if our management team cannot work together effectively, or if other members of our senior management team resign. In addition, our success requires that we attract, develop, motivate, and retain experienced and innovative executive officers, senior managers who have successfully managed or designed government services programs or who have relevant experience in other sectors of the data management or healthcare industry, and information technology professionals who have designed or implemented complex information technology projects. Innovative, experienced, and technologically proficient individuals are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to attract and retain the most capable and desirable executive officers and senior managers. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or the loss of significant numbers of senior managers or information technology professionals could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow. Our ability to execute on contracts is dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. Our delivery of services is labor-intensive. When we are awarded a contract, we must quickly hire project leaders, case management staff, and other personnel with the specific qualifications required by our contracts. The additional staff also creates a concurrent demand for increased administrative personnel. Our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability is limited by our ability to recruit, employ, train, and retain the skilled personnel necessary to fulfill our contractual requirements. The success of recruitment and retention strategy depends on a number of factors, including the competitive demands for employees having the skills we need and the level of compensation required to hire and retain such employees. We cannot assure you that we will be able to recruit the appropriate personnel in the timeframe required to fulfill our contractual obligations, that we will be successful in maintaining the personnel necessary to operate efficiently and support our business, or that if our recruitment and retention strategies are successful, our labor costs will not increase significantly. Our inability to hire sufficient personnel on a timely basis and without significantly increasing our labor costs could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our health insurance coverage and self-insurance reserves may not cover future claims. We maintain various insurance policies for employee health, Workers' Compensation, general liability, and property damage. We are self-insured for our health plans, and have purchased a fully-insured stop loss policy to help offset our liability for both individual and aggregate claim costs. We are also responsible for losses up to a certain limit for Workers' Compensation, general liability, and property damage insurance. For policies under which we are responsible for losses, we record a liability that represents our estimated cost of claims incurred and unpaid as of the balance sheet date. Our estimated liability is not discounted and is based on a number of assumptions and factors, including historical trends, actuarial assumptions and economic conditions, and is closely monitored and adjusted when warranted by changing circumstances. Our significant growth rate could affect the accuracy of estimates based on historical experience. Should a greater amount of claims occur compared to what was estimated or medical costs increase beyond what was expected, our accrued liabilities might not be sufficient and we may be required 25 Table of Contents to record additional expense. Unanticipated changes may also produce materially different amounts of expense than reported under these programs, which could adversely impact our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated widely and may continue to do so. During the 52-week period ended February 21, 2014, the closing price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select market ranged from a high of $31.93 per share, to a low of $17.39 per share. We expect our stock price to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control. Some of these factors are: •actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; •the gain or loss of significant contracts; •delays in our development and introduction of new services; •changes in government policies or regulations; •developments in our relationships with current or future clients and suppliers; •operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to our company; •news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the healthcare industry; •perceptions in the marketplace regarding us and/or our competitors; •acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors; •political developments affecting healthcare at the federal, state or local level; •our failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions; •the hiring or departure of key personnel; •the introduction of new services by us or our competitors; •changes in estimates of our performance or recommendations by securities analysts; •future sales of shares of common stock in the public market; •any other changes in the amount of our outstanding shares, including as a result of share repurchases; •securities class action or other litigation; and •market conditions in the industry and the economy as a whole. In addition, the stock market often experiences significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. When the market price of a company's stock drops significantly, shareholders may institute securities class action litigation against that company. Any litigation against us could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert the time and attention of our management and other resources, or otherwise harm our business. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation could discourage unsolicited takeover attempts, which could depress the market price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of "blank check" preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined by our Board of 26 Table of Contents Directors. Accordingly, our Board of Directors is empowered, without shareholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights, that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of holders of our common stock. In the event of issuance, preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying, or preventing a change in control. Although we have no present intention to issue any shares of preferred stock, we cannot assure you that we will not do so in the future. In addition, our by-laws provide for a classified Board of Directors, which could also have the effect of discouraging a change of control. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, you will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our capital stock to date and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The success of your investment in our common stock will likely depend entirely upon any future appreciation. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which you purchased your shares. We previously identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting that existed as of September 30, 2013. While this material weakness has been adequately remediated as of the date of this Report, if we identify and fail to properly remediate any future weaknesses or deficiencies or maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired and investors' views of us could be harmed. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over our financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act. As previously disclosed, management identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, which existed as of September 30, 2013 and was determined to have been remediated as of December 31, 2013. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. If we identify and are unable to remediate any additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results. If our financial statements are not accurate, investors may not have a complete understanding of our operations. Likewise, if our financial statements are not filed on a timely basis as required by the SEC and NASDAQ, we could face severe consequences from those authorities. In either case, there could result a material adverse effect on our business. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 