Risk Factors. We provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our business that, individually or in the aggregate, may cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should consider these factors, but understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties involved with investing in our stock. These risk factors should be read in connection with other information set forth in this Annual Report, including our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes. Risks Relating to Our Business We face significant competition for our services and we expect competition to increase. Our business will be adversely impacted if we fail to properly manage our growth. Competition for our services is evident in the markets we serve. We expect to encounter additional competition as we address new markets and new competitors enter our existing markets. In addition, our current and prospective clients evaluate our capabilities against the merits of their existing information management and data processing systems and expertise. We compete with other providers of healthcare information management and data processing services, including, Maximus, Inc., Affiliated Computer Services, Inc., Ingenix and Medicare Recovery Audit Contractor vendors, as well as healthcare consulting firms, including PCG and Accenture. To date, PCG has been prohibited from competing with us under the terms of a Non-Compete Agreement which we entered into in connection with the BSPA acquisition in 2006. Upon the expiration of that agreement in September 2011, PCG could re-enter as a competitor to HMS. In order to remain competitive and expand our business, we must be able to quickly respond to new or emerging technologies, changes in client requirements and changes in the political, economic or regulatory environment in the healthcare industry. Some of our competitors have formed business alliances with other competitors that may affect our ability to work with potential clients. In addition, if some of our competitors merge, a stronger competitor may result. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, product development, marketing and other resources and market recognition than we have and accordingly may be in a position to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their 10 services than we can. If we fail to design, develop, implement and improve our systems in response to our clients’ needs, we may not be able to maintain or expand our client base, hire and retain new employees, pursue new business opportunities, complete future acquisitions or operate our business effectively. In addition, services, solutions and technologies offered by current or future competitors may make our services or solution offerings uncompetitive or obsolete. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or any new competitors. If, as a result of increased competition, we are forced to lower our pricing or if demand for our services decreases, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. Our business could be adversely affected if we lose a major client, if our clients are not satisfied with our services or if they elect to terminate our contracts before their scheduled expiration date. We generate a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of large clients. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, our three largest clients accounted for approximately 16%, 19% and 20%, respectively, of our revenue from continuing operations. Our business model depends in large part on our ability to attract new work from our base of existing clients. It also depends on relationships we develop with our clients so that we can understand our clients’ needs and deliver solutions and services that are tailored to meet those needs. If a client is not satisfied with the quality of work performed by us, or with the type of services or solutions delivered, then we could incur additional costs to address the situation, the profitability of that work might be impaired and the client’s dissatisfaction with our services could damage our ability to obtain additional work from that client. In particular, since several of our contracts are terminable upon short notice for convenience by either party, clients that are not satisfied might seek to terminate existing contracts prior to their scheduled expiration date and could direct future business to our competitors. Negative publicity related to our client relationships, regardless of its accuracy, may further damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts with current and prospective clients. We cannot assure you that a material contract will not be terminated for convenience in the future. In addition, some of our contracts contain liquidated damages provisions and financial penalties related to performance failures. Although we have liability insurance, the policy coverage and limits may not be adequate to provide protection against all potential liabilities. Under the terms of one of our contracts, we have posted an irrevocable standby letter of credit for $4.6 million. If a claim is made against this letter of credit or any similar instrument that we obtain in the future, we would be required to reimburse the issuer of the letter of credit for the amount of the claim. If we were to lose a major client or incur significant costs or liabilities related to performance failures, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. Our operating results are subject to significant fluctuations due to factors including variability in the timing of when we recognize contingency fee revenue. As a result, you will not be able to rely on our operating results in any particular period as an indication of our future performance. We have experienced significant variations in our revenue between reporting periods due to the timing of periodic revenue recovery projects and the timing and delays in third party payors’ claim adjudication and ultimate payment to our clients where our fees are contingent upon such collections. In addition, our revenue and, consequently, our operating results may vary significantly from period to period as a result of factors including the terms and progress of contracts, fluctuations in sales activity given our sales cycle of approximately three to eighteen months, the commencement, completion or termination of contracts during any particular quarter, expenses related to certain contracts which may be incurred in periods prior to revenue being recognized, the schedules of government agencies for awarding contracts, the term of awarded contracts, potential acquisitions, the loss of clients and general economic conditions as they affect healthcare providers and payors. For example, a significant portion of our operating expenses are fixed. Any inability on our part to reduce spending or to compensate for any failure to receive anticipated revenues could magnify the adverse impact of such events on our operating results. We cannot predict the extent to which future revenue variations could occur due to these or other 11 factors. As a result, our results of operations are subject to significant fluctuation and our results of operations for any particular quarter or fiscal year may not be indicative of results of operations for future periods. We are subject to extensive government regulation and our government contracts are subject to audit and investigation rights. Any violation of the laws and regulations applicable to us or a negative audit or investigation finding could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our business is regulated by the federal government and the states in which we operate. The laws and regulations governing our operations are generally intended to benefit and protect health plan members and providers, rather than stockholders. The government agencies administering these laws and regulations have broad latitude to enforce them. These laws and regulations, along with the terms of our government contracts, regulate how we do business, what services we offer and how we interact with our clients, providers and the public. We are subject, on an ongoing basis, to various governmental reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with our contracts and applicable laws and regulations. In addition, because we receive payments from federal and state governmental agencies, we are subject to various laws, including the Federal False Claims Act, which permit the federal government to institute suits against us for violations and, in some cases, to seek treble damages, penalties and assessments. Many states, including states where we currently do business, likewise have enacted parallel legislation. In addition, private citizens, acting as whistleblowers, can sue on behalf of the government under a special provision of the False Claims Act. If the government discovers improper or illegal activities in the course of audits or investigations, we may be subject to various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions and debarment from doing business with the government. If we are found to be in violation of any applicable law or regulation, or if we receive an adverse review, audit or investigation, any resulting negative publicity, penalties or sanctions could have an adverse affect on our reputation in the industry, impair our ability to compete for new contracts and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Changes in the United States healthcare environment and steps we take in anticipation of such changes, particularly as they relate to the recently adopted ACA, could have a material negative impact on our business financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The healthcare industry in the United States is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences that may affect the procurement practices and operations of healthcare organizations and agencies. The ACA was signed into law in March 2010 and in general seeks to reduce health care costs and decrease over time the number of uninsured legal U.S. residents. Especially because of the legislation’s strong emphasis on program integrity and cost containment, we regard this legislation, on the whole, as creating potential, new opportunities for the expansion of our business and service offerings. However, it is difficult to predict the full impact of the legislation due to its complexity, as well as a wide range of other factors contributing to the uncertainty of the present healthcare landscape. These factors include a current lack of implementing regulations or administrative policy guidance, the unpredictability of responses by states, businesses and other entities to various choices available to them under the law and the possibility that implementation of some or all of the legislation could be blocked by Court challenges, repealed by Congressional efforts or otherwise modified at the state-level. We have made and will continue to make investments in personnel, infrastructure and product development, as well as in the overall expansion of the services that we offer in order to support existing and new clients as they prepare for and implement the requirements of the ACA. However, the uncertain status of ACA implementation, combined with the unpredictability of the consequences of certain of its provisions, makes it difficult to determine which and when, adaptive changes should be undertaken. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be adversely affected if efforts to repeal, waive, modify or otherwise change the ACA, in whole or in part, succeed or, if the ACA is implemented as adopted and we are unable to adapt our products and services to meet its requirements. In sum, recent or future legislative enactments may increase or decrease government involvement in healthcare, lower reimbursement rates and/or otherwise change the operating environment for our clients. 12 Healthcare organizations may react to changed circumstances, financial pressures and uncertainty surrounding ACA implementation by curtailing or deferring their retention of service providers such as us, thus reducing the demand for our services and, in turn, materially adversely affecting our business, financial condition, operational outcomes and cash flow. Simplification of the healthcare payment process could reduce the need for and the price of our services. The complexity of the healthcare payment process and our experience in offering services that improve the ability of our clients to recover incremental revenue through that process have contributed to the success of our service offerings. Complexities of the healthcare payment process include multiple payors and the coordination and utilization of clinical, operational, financial and/or administrative review instituted by third-party payors in an effort to control costs and manage care. If the payment processes associated with the healthcare industry are simplified significantly, the need for our services, or the price clients are willing to pay for our services, could be reduced, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Budget deficits and/or fluctuations in the number of requests for proposals issued by governments and their agencies may adversely impact our business. A significant percentage of our fiscal year 2010 revenues were derived from contracts with federal, state and local governments and their agencies. Our growth strategy includes aggressively pursuing new opportunities, leveraging our expertise to acquire new clients at the state, federal and employer levels and expanding our current contracts to provide new services to current clients. From time to time, government clients may face budget deficits. This is particularly true as a result of current economic conditions. Also, the number of requests for proposals, or RFPs, issued by government agencies is subject to fluctuation. If government budgets are reduced, then the services we provide could be considered non-essential, our contracts could be terminated and future contracting opportunities for government contracts could be limited. In addition, payments due to us from government agencies may be delayed due to billing cycles or as a result of failures to approve governmental budgets in a timely manner, which would increase our use of working capital. The failure to receive timely payments, as well as the loss of existing government contracts and future contracting opportunities, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We must comply with laws and regulations regarding patient privacy and information security, including taking steps to ensure that our workforce, our subcontractors and our business associates who obtain access to sensitive patient information maintain its confidentiality. Our failure, or a failure by our subcontractors or business associates, to comply with those laws and regulations, whether or not inadvertent, could subject us to legal actions and negatively impact our operations. We process, transmit and store information relating to identifiable individuals, both in our role as a service provider and as an employer. The use of individually identifiable data by our business is regulated at the federal and state levels. These laws and rules are changed frequently by legislation or administrative interpretation. Various state laws address the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health data. Most are derived from the privacy and security provisions in the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH. HIPAA also imposes standards and requirements on our business associates (as this term is defined in the HIPAA regulations) and our other subcontractors. Even though we take measures to comply with all applicable regulations and to ensure that our business associates and subcontractors are in compliance, we still have limited control over their actions and practices. Compliance with these proposals, requirements and new regulations may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes, the development of new administrative processes and the effects of potential noncompliance by our business associates and subcontractors. Such proposals, requirements and new regulations also may impose further restrictions on our use of patient identifiable data that is housed in one or more of our administrative databases. We have implemented security systems with the intent of maintaining the physical security of our facilities and protecting our clients’ and our suppliers’ confidential information and information related to identifiable individuals against unauthorized access through our information systems or by other electronic transmission or through 13 the misdirection, theft or loss of physical media. These include, for example, the encryption of information. Despite such efforts, we may become subject to a breach of our security systems which may result in unauthorized access to our facilities and/or the protected information. If we, or our subcontractors that receive or utilize confidential information on our behalf, fail to comply with applicable laws or if unauthorized parties gain physical access to one of our facilities or electronic access to our information systems or such information is misdirected, lost or stolen during transmission or transport, any theft or misuse of such information could result in, among other things, unfavorable publicity, governmental inquiry and oversight, difficulty in marketing our services, allegations by our clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations, litigation by affected parties and possible financial obligations for damages related to the theft or misuse of such information, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We obtain a significant portion of our business through competitive bidding in response to government RFPs. We may not be awarded contracts through this process on the same level in the future as in the past. If we fail to accurately estimate the factors upon which we base our contract pricing, we may generate less profit than expected or incur losses on those contracts. In order to market our services to clients, we are often required to respond to government RFPs to compete for a contract. This requires that we accurately estimate our cost structure for servicing a proposed contract, the time required to establish operations and likely terms of the proposals submitted by competitors. We must also assemble and submit a large volume of information within an RFP’s rigid timetable. Our ability to respond successfully to RFPs will greatly impact our business. We cannot assure you that we will continue to obtain contracts in response to government RFPs or that our proposals will result in profitable contracts. In addition, competitors may protest contracts awarded to us through the RFP process which may cause the award to be delayed or overturned or may require the client to reinitiate the RFP process. Our pricing is dependent on our internal forecasts and predictions about our projects and the marketplace, which might be based on limited data and could turn out to be inaccurate. A majority of our contracts are contingency fee based. For contingency fee based offerings, we receive our fee based on recoveries received by our clients. To earn a profit on a contingency fee offering, we must accurately estimate costs involved and assess the probability of completing individual transactions within the contracted time period. Our contracts with the federal government generally are cost-plus or time and material based. Revenue on cost-plus contracts is recognized based on costs incurred plus an estimate of the negotiated fee earned. If we do not accurately estimate the costs and timing for completing projects, or if we encounter increased or unexpected costs, delays, failures or risks, including those outside our control, our contracts could prove unprofitable for us or yield lower profit margins than anticipated. Although we believe that we have recorded adequate provisions in our financial statements for losses on our fixed-price and cost-plus contracts where applicable, as required under United States generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP, we cannot assure you that our contract loss provisions will be adequate to cover all actual future losses. Our business depends on effective information systems and the integrity of the data in our information systems. A major failure of our information systems could harm our business. Our ability to conduct our operations and accurately report our financial results depends on the integrity of the data in our information systems. These information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs and handle our expansion and growth. In addition, as a result of our acquisition activities, we have acquired additional systems that have to be phased out or integrated with our current systems. If we encounter a business disruption, if we find the information we rely upon to run our businesses to be inaccurate or unreliable, or if we fail to maintain our information systems and data integrity effectively and our business continuity plans do not effectively compensate on a timely basis, we could suffer operational disruptions, loss of existing clients, difficulty in attracting new clients or in implementing our growth strategies, problems establishing appropriate pricing, disputes with clients, civil or criminal penalties, regulatory problems, increases in administrative expenses, loss of our ability to produce timely and accurate financial and other reports, or other adverse consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. 14 We depend on information suppliers. If we are unable to successfully manage our relationships with a number of these suppliers, the quality and availability of our services may be harmed. We obtain some of the data used in our services from third party suppliers and government entities. If a number of suppliers are no longer able or are unwilling to provide us with certain data, we may need to find alternative sources. If we are unable to identify and contract with suitable alternative data suppliers and integrate these data sources into our service offerings, we could experience service disruptions, increased costs and reduced quality of our services. Additionally, if one or more of our data suppliers terminates our existing agreements, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain new agreements with other data suppliers on terms favorable to us, if at all. Loss of such access or the unavailability of data in the future due to increased governmental regulation or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We may rely on subcontractors and partners to provide clients with a single-source solution. From time to time, we may engage subcontractors, teaming partners or other third parties to provide our clients with a single-source solution. While we believe that we perform appropriate due diligence on our subcontractors and teaming partners, we cannot guarantee that those parties will comply with the terms set forth in their agreements. We may have disputes with our subcontractors, teaming partners or other third parties arising from the quality and timeliness of their work, client concerns about them or other matters. Subcontractor performance deficiencies or misconduct could result in a client terminating our contract for default and/or could adversely affect our client relationships. We may be exposed to liability and we and our clients may be adversely affected if a subcontractor or teaming partner fails to meet its contractual obligations. We use software vendors, utility providers and network providers in our business and could be materially adversely affected if they cannot deliver or perform as expected or if our relationships with them are terminated or otherwise change. Our ability to service our clients and deliver and implement solutions requires that we work with certain third party providers, including software vendors, utility and network providers and depends on their meeting our expectations in a timely and quality manner. Our business could be materially and adversely affected and we might incur significant additional liabilities if the services provided by these third party providers do not meet our expectations or if they terminate or refuse to renew their relationships with us or were to offer their products to us in the future on less advantageous terms. In addition, while there are backup systems in many of our operating facilities, an extended outage of utility or network services may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The federal government may limit or prohibit the outsourcing of certain programs or may refuse to grant consents and/or waivers necessary to permit private entities, such as us, to perform certain elements of government programs. The federal government could limit or prohibit private contractors like us from operating or performing elements of certain government programs. State or local governments could be required to operate such programs with government employees as a condition of receiving federal funding. Moreover, under current law, in order to privatize certain functions of government programs, the federal government must grant a consent and/or waiver to the petitioning state or local agency. If the federal government does not grant a necessary consent or waiver, the state or local agency will be unable to outsource that function to a private entity, such as us. This situation could eliminate a contracting opportunity or reduce the value of an existing contract. We may be precluded from bidding and performing certain work due to other work we currently perform. Various laws, regulations and administrative policies prohibit companies from performing work for government agencies that might be viewed to create an actual or apparent conflict of interest. These factors may limit our ability to pursue and perform certain types of work. In particular, CMS has strict conflict of interest requirements which can limit our bidding for specific work for CMS. State governments also have conflict of interest 15 requirements that could limit our ability to bid for certain work. Conflict of interest requirements constantly change at the federal, state and municipal levels and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in securing new business for entities for which we are currently conducting or have conducted services. If we are prevented from expanding our business due to conflicts of interest, our business could be adversely affected. If we do not successfully integrate the businesses that we acquire, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Historically, we have made a significant number of acquisitions that have expanded the products and services we offer, provided a presence in a complementary business or expanded our geographic presence. Business combinations involve a number of factors that affect operations, including: • diversion of management’s attention; • loss of key personnel; • entry into unfamiliar markets; • assumption of unanticipated legal or financial liabilities; • becoming significantly leveraged as a result of incurring debt to finance an acquisition; • unanticipated operating, accounting or management difficulties in connection with the acquired entities; • impairment of acquired intangible assets, including goodwill; and • dilution to our earnings per share. We intend to continue our acquisition strategy. We cannot, however, assure you that we will be able to identify any potential acquisition candidates or consummate any additional acquisitions or that any future acquisitions will be successfully integrated or will be advantageous to us. Entities we acquire may not achieve the revenue and earnings we anticipated or their liabilities may exceed our expectations. Client dissatisfaction or performance problems with an acquired entity could materially and adversely affect our reputation as a whole. In addition, notwithstanding due diligence exercised during the acquisition process, we may subsequently be exposed to unanticipated financial liability and/or negative publicity related to prior acts by the acquired entity. We may be unable to profitably manage entities that we have acquired or that we may acquire or we may fail to integrate them successfully without incurring substantial expenses, delays or other problems, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We may not be able to realize the entire book value of goodwill and other intangible assets from acquisitions. As of December 31, 2010, we have approximately $107.4 million of goodwill and $19.8 million of intangible assets. We periodically assess these assets to determine if they are impaired. We monitor for impairment of goodwill on past and future acquisitions. We perform our impairment testing in the second quarter of each year. In the event that the book value of goodwill is impaired, any such impairment would be charged to earnings in the period of impairment. We cannot assure you that future impairment of goodwill will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We may be unable to attract and retain sufficient qualified personnel to properly operate our business. The ability of our executive officers and our senior managers to generate business and execute projects successfully is important to our success. In addition, our delivery of services is labor-intensive. When we are awarded a contract, we must quickly hire project leaders and case management personnel. The additional staff also creates a concurrent demand for increased administrative personnel. Our success requires that we attract, develop, motivate and retain experienced and innovative executive officers; senior managers who have successfully managed or designed government services programs; and information technology professionals who have designed or implemented complex information technology projects. 16 Innovative, experienced and technologically proficient individuals are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to attract and retain desirable executive officers and senior managers. Our inability to hire sufficient personnel on a timely basis or the loss of significant numbers of executive officers, senior managers or information technology professionals could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated widely and may continue to do so. For example, during the 52-week period ended February 18, 2011, the closing price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select market ranged from a high of $73.92 per share, to a low of $45.02 per share. We expect our stock price to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control. Some of these factors are: • actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; • the gain or loss of significant contracts; • delays in our development and introduction of new services; • changes in government policies or regulations; • developments in our relationships with current or future clients and suppliers; • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to our company; • news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the healthcare industry; • perceptions in the marketplace regarding us and/or our competitors; • acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors; • political developments affecting healthcare at the federal, state or local level; • our failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions; • the hiring or departure of key personnel; • the introduction of new services by us or our competitors; • changes in estimates of our performance or recommendations by securities analysts; • future sales of shares of common stock in the public market; • securities class action or other litigation; and • market conditions in the industry and the economy as a whole. In addition, the stock market often experiences significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. When the market price of a company’s stock drops significantly, shareholders often institute securities class action litigation against that company. Any litigation against us could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert the time and attention of our management and other resources, or otherwise harm our business. Failure to fully comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could negatively affect our business, the price of our common stock and market confidence in our reported financial information. We periodically evaluate and test our internal control over financial reporting to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial 17 reporting was effective as of December 31, 2010. If in the future we are unable to report that our internal control over financial reporting is effective (or if our auditors do not agree with our assessment of the effectiveness of, or are unable to express an opinion on, our internal control over financial reporting), investors, customers and business partners could lose confidence in the accuracy of our financial reports, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, investor confidence in our financial results may weaken and our stock price may suffer. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation could discourage unsolicited takeover attempts, which could depress the market price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined by our Board of Directors. Accordingly, our Board of Directors is empowered, without shareholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights, that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of holders of our common stock. In the event of issuance, preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control. Although we have no present intention to issue any shares of preferred stock, we cannot assure you that we will not do so in the future. In addition, our by-laws provide for a classified Board of Directors, which could also have the effect of discouraging a change of control. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, you will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our capital stock to date and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The success of your investment in our common stock will likely depend entirely upon any future appreciation. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which you purchased your shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 