ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below together with the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our company. Risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. Risks Relating to Our Business and Strategy We have a limited operating history, which may make it difficult to evaluate our current business and predict our future performance. Our company has been in existence since January 2002. From 2002 until 2005, our operations focused on organizing and staffing our company and developing our technology platform. In 2005, we recognized our first revenues from product sales. Since 2005, we have continued to generate revenues, but because our revenue growth has occurred in recent periods, our limited operating history may make it difficult to evaluate our current business and predict our future performance. Any assessments of our current business and predictions you make about our future success or viability may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a longer operating history. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries. If we do not address these risks successfully, our business will be harmed. Our quarterly or annual operating results may fluctuate in the future. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of research analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our financial condition and operating results have varied significantly in the past and may continue to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Factors relating to our business that may contribute to these fluctuations include the following factors, as well as other factors described elsewhere in this report and in our annual report on Form 10-K: • our ability to achieve or maintain profitability; • our ability to obtain substantial additional capital that may be necessary to expand our business; • our relationships with and dependence on collaborators in our principal markets; • our dependence on our collaborative research agreement with Shell for the development and commercialization of advanced biofuels, which agreement is set to expire in October 2012; • our ability to obtain approval from Shell to begin collaboration with Raízen on cellulosic ethanol in Brazil; • the feasibility of producing and commercializing biofuels derived from cellulose; • our dependence on, and the need to attract and retain key management and other personnel, including a permanent Chief Executive Officer and a permanent Chief Financial Officer; • our dependence on a limited number of customers; • our dependence on a limited number of products in our pharmaceutical business; • our dependence on one contract manufacturer for commercial scale production of substantially all of our enzymes; • the ability of Arch to market our pharmaceutical products effectively; • our ability to maintain internal control over financial reporting; 27 Table of Contents • our ability to manage our growth; • the success of our customers’ pharmaceutical products in the market and the ability of such customers to obtain regulatory approvals for products and processes; • our ability to control and to improve pharmaceutical gross margins; • our ability to develop and successfully commercialize new products for the pharmaceuticals market; • our ability to maintain license rights for commercial scale expression systems for cellulases; • fluctuations in the price of and demand for commodities that our enzymes can be employed to produce or for substitute commodities; • the availability, cost and location of renewable cellulosic biomass sources; • reductions or changes to existing biofuel regulations and policies; • our potential bio-based chemical products might not be approved or accepted by our customers; • our ability to independently develop, manufacture, market, sell and distribute commercial cellulase enzymes; • our ability to obtain and maintain governmental grants; • risks associated with the international aspects of our business; • our ability to integrate any businesses we may acquire with our business; • our ability to accurately report our financial results in a timely manner; • our ability to obtain, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights; • our ability to prevent the theft or misappropriation of our biocatalysts, the genes that code for our biocatalysts, know-how or technologies; • potential advantages that our competitors and potential competitors may have in securing funding or developing products; • business interruptions, such as earthquakes and other natural disasters; • public concerns about the ethical, legal and social ramifications of genetically engineered products and processes; • our ability to comply with laws and regulations; • our ability to properly handle and dispose of hazardous materials used in our business; • potential product liability claims; • the existence of government subsidies or regulation with respect to carbon dioxide emissions; and • our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income. Due to the various factors mentioned above, and others, the results of any prior quarterly or annual periods should not be relied upon as indications of our future operating performance. We have a history of net losses, and we may not achieve or maintain profitability. We have incurred net losses since our inception, including losses of $20.3 million, $8.5 million and $16.6 million in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $184.7 million. To date, we have derived a substantial portion of our revenues from research and development agreements with our collaborators and expect to derive a substantial portion of our revenues from these sources for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to extend our existing agreements or enter into new agreements upon 28 Table of Contents the expiration or termination of our existing agreements, our revenues could be adversely affected. In addition, some of our collaboration agreements provide for milestone payments and future royalty payments, which we will only receive if we and our collaborators develop and commercialize products. We also expect to spend significant amounts to fund the development of additional pharmaceutical and potential bioindustrial products, including our CodeXyme™ cellulase enzymes, CodeXol™ detergent alcohols and other products for the advanced biofuel and bio-based chemicals markets. There can be no assurance that any of these products will become commercially viable or that we will ever achieve profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we fail to achieve profitability, or if the time required to achieve profitability is longer than we anticipate, we may not be able to continue our business. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We may need substantial additional capital in the future in order to expand our business. Our future capital requirements may be substantial, particularly as we continue to develop our business, including investing in our CodeXyme™ cellulase enzymes and CodeXol™ detergent alcohols business opportunities. Although we believe that, based on our current level of operations and anticipated growth, our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will provide adequate funds for ongoing operations, planned capital expenditures and working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months, we may need additional capital if our current plans and assumptions change. Our need for additional capital will depend on many factors, including the financial success of our pharmaceutical business, continued funding from Shell for our cellulase and ethanol programs, our spending to develop and commercialize new and existing products, the effect of any acquisitions of other businesses, technologies or facilities that we may make or develop in the future, our spending on new market opportunities, including bio-based chemicals, and the filing, prosecution, enforcement and defense of patent claims. If our capital resources are insufficient to meet our capital requirements, and we are unable to enter into or maintain collaborations with partners that are able or willing to fund our development efforts or commercialize any products that we develop or enable, we will have to raise additional funds to continue the development of our technology and products and complete the commercialization of products, if any, resulting from our technologies. If future financings involve the issuance of equity securities, our existing stockholders would suffer dilution. If we raise debt financing, we may be subject to restrictive covenants that limit our ability to conduct our business. We may not be able to raise sufficient additional funds on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. If we fail to raise sufficient funds and fail to generate sufficient revenues to achieve planned gross margins and to control operating costs, our ability to fund our operations, take advantage of strategic opportunities, develop products or technologies, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures could be significantly limited. If this happens, we may be forced to delay or terminate research or development programs or the commercialization of products resulting from our technologies, curtail or cease operations or obtain funds through collaborative and licensing arrangements that may require us to relinquish commercial rights, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If adequate funds are not available, we will not be able to successfully execute our business plan or continue our business. We are dependent on our collaborators, and our failure to successfully manage these relationships could prevent us from developing and commercializing many of our products and achieving or sustaining profitability. Our ability to maintain and manage collaborations in our markets is fundamental to the success of our business. We currently have license agreements, research and development agreements, supply agreements and/or distribution agreements with various collaborators. We may have limited or no control over the amount or timing of resources that any collaborator is able or willing to devote to our partnered products or collaborative efforts. Any of our collaborators may fail to perform their obligations. These collaborators may breach or terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to conduct their collaborative activities successfully and in a timely manner. Further, our collaborators may not develop products arising out of our collaborative arrangements or devote 29 Table of Contents sufficient resources to the development, manufacture, marketing, or sale of these products. Moreover, disagreements with a collaborator could develop and any conflict with a collaborator could reduce our ability to enter into future collaboration agreements and negatively impact our relationships with one or more existing collaborators. If any of these events occur, or if we fail to maintain our agreements with our collaborators, we may not be able to commercialize our existing and potential products, grow our business, or generate sufficient revenues to support our operations. Our collaboration opportunities could be harmed if: • we do not achieve our research and development objectives under our collaboration agreements in a timely manner or at all; • we develop products and processes or enter into additional collaborations that conflict with the business objectives of our other collaborators; • we disagree with our collaborators as to rights to intellectual property that are developed during the collaboration, or their research programs or commercialization activities; • we are unable to manage multiple simultaneous collaborations; • our collaborators become competitors of ours or enter into agreements with our competitors; • our collaborators become unable or less willing to expend their resources on research and development or commercialization efforts due to general market conditions, their financial condition or other circumstances beyond our control; or • our collaborators experience business difficulties, which could eliminate or impair their ability to effectively perform under our agreements; Additionally, our business could be negatively affected if any of our collaborators or suppliers undergoes a change of control or were to otherwise assign the rights or obligations under any of our agreements. For example, under our license agreement with Shell, Shell may assign the agreement without our consent to controlled affiliates or in connection with a change of control. If Shell or any of our other collaborators were to assign these agreements to a competitor of ours or to a third party who is not willing to work with us on the same terms or commit the same resources as the current collaborator, our business and prospects could be harmed. We are heavily dependent on our collaborative research agreement with Shell, which will expire in November 2012 if not extended. Our current business plan for biofuels is heavily dependent on our collaborative research agreement with Shell, which will continue to be critical to researching and developing successful biocatalysts for producing advanced biofuels. Advanced biofuels are transport fuels derived from non-petroleum and non-food based sources. Shell’s efforts in commercializing advanced biofuels profitably will be critical to our future success. If we are unable to successfully execute on the development of advanced biofuels for Shell, our ability to expand into other bioindustrial areas may be significantly impaired, which will materially and adversely affect our ability to grow our business. We cannot control the financial resources Shell devotes to our programs under the collaborative research agreement. Currently, we receive bi-monthly payments from Shell that are based on the number of full-time employee equivalents, or FTEs, that work on our research collaboration with Shell. The number of FTEs that work on the program, and the payments from Shell for these FTEs, are specified in our collaborative research agreement. Shell has the right to reduce the number of funded FTEs, with any one reduction not to exceed 98 funded FTEs, following advance written notice. The required notice period ranges from 30 to 270 days. Following any such reduction, Shell is subject to a standstill period of between 90 and 360 days during which period Shell cannot provide notice of any further FTE reductions. The notice and standstill periods are dependent on the number of funded FTEs reduced, with the length of notice and standstill periods increasing commensurate with the number of FTEs reduced. Effective August 2011, Shell reduced the number of funded FTEs engaged in our joint research and development collaboration from 128 to 116. Any further reduction could have a material 30 Table of Contents adverse impact on our revenues and business plan for advanced biofuels. Moreover, disputes may arise between us and Shell, which could delay the programs on which we are working or could prevent the commercialization of products developed under our research and development collaboration. If that were to occur, we may have to use funds, personnel, equipment, facilities and other resources that we have not budgeted to undertake certain activities on our own. Disagreements with Shell could also result in expensive arbitration or litigation, which may not be resolved in our favor. Performance issues, program delays or termination or unbudgeted use of our resources may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Even if we successfully develop commercially viable technologies, our ability to derive revenues from those technologies will be dependent upon Shell’s willingness and ability to commercialize them. Shell has the right, but not the obligation, to commercialize these technologies. If Shell decides to commercialize our technology, we would need to rely on Shell, or other parties selected by Shell, to design, finance and construct commercial scale advanced biofuel facilities, and operate commercial scale facilities at costs that are competitive with traditional petroleum-based fuels and other alternative fuel technologies that may be developed. Shell could merge with or be acquired by another company or experience financial or other setbacks unrelated to our research collaboration agreement that could adversely affect us. We have agreed to work exclusively with Shell until November 2012 in the field of converting cellulosic biomass into fermentable sugars that are used in the production of fuels and related products as well as the conversion of these sugars into fuels and related products. However, Shell is not required to work exclusively with us, and could develop or pursue alternative technologies that it decides to use for commercialization purposes instead of the technology developed under our collaborative research agreement with Shell. For example, Shell is currently working with Virent Energy Systems to develop a thermo-chemical approach to developing biogasoline and biodiesel. Even if Shell decides to commercialize products based on our technologies, they have no obligation to purchase their biocatalyst supply from us. Our license agreement with Shell prohibits us from licensing any technology developed under the collaboration for the patent life of such technology, which could place us at a significant competitive disadvantage in the advanced biofuels market. We cannot guarantee that our relationship with Shell will continue. Our collaborative research agreement with Shell expires in November 2012 unless extended by the parties. Shell can terminate its collaborative research agreement with us for any or no reason by providing us with nine months’ notice. Each party also has the right to terminate the license agreement and the collaborative research agreement in the case of an uncured breach by the other party, and to terminate the collaborative research agreement if that party believes the other party has assigned the collaborative research agreement to a direct competitor of the terminating party. Furthermore, in June 2011 Shell transferred all of its equity interests in us, together with its right to appoint one member to our board of directors, to Raízen Energia Participações S.A., or Raízen, a Brazil-based biofuels joint venture between Shell and Cosan S.A. If our collaboration with Shell were to end, we would likely need to find other collaborators to provide the financial assistance and infrastructure necessary for us to develop and commercialize our products and execute our strategy with respect to advanced biofuels. Failure to maintain this relationship would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects. The success of our cellulosic ethanol program may be dependent on the performance of other parties. In connection with our research and development collaboration with Shell, we entered into a multiparty collaborative research and license agreement with Shell and Iogen in July 2009, which is focused on developing technology to convert cellulosic biomass to ethanol for commercial scale production. Either Shell or Iogen may fail to perform their obligations under this collaboration, may breach or terminate the collaboration agreement or otherwise fail to conduct their collaborative activities successfully and in a timely manner. Further, they may not devote sufficient resources to the development of technology to convert cellulosic biomass to ethanol or may fail to develop the technology altogether. Moreover, disagreements or conflicts amongst the parties could develop and could negatively impact our development efforts or our relationships with Shell and Iogen. Disagreements with Shell or Iogen could also result in expensive arbitration or litigation, which may not be resolved in our favor. If any of these events occur, or if we fail to maintain this collaboration with Shell and Iogen, we may be 31 Table of Contents unable to develop technology for use in the production of cellulosic ethanol at commercial scale, which would have an adverse impact on our ability to grow our business. In addition, the collaborative research and license agreement with Shell and Iogen terminates in the event (i) our separate research agreement with Shell terminates(which agreement will expire in October 2012, unless extended by the parties) or (ii) Iogen’s separate technology development agreement with Shell terminates. In addition, Shell can terminate the collaborative research and license agreement for any or no reason by providing us and Iogen with 30 days notice. Any unilateral action by Shell to terminate either its separate license agreements with us or Iogen will prevent any further research and development activities under the multi-party collaboration. As a result, our ability to pursue research and development activities relating to the conversion of cellulosic biomass and our biofuels programs may be adversely impacted. We need approval from Shell to begin collaboration with Raízen on cellulosic ethanol in Brazil. Under our current commercial arrangement with Shell, we have agreed to work exclusively with Shell on second generation biofuels. We will need approval from Shell before we can collaborate with Raízen on any projects involving the production of cellulosic ethanol in Brazil. We do not know when, or if, this approval from Shell will be granted. Our business plan will be significantly impaired if we are not allowed to deploy our cellulosic ethanol technology in Brazil with Raízen. Production and commercialization of biofuels and bio-based chemicals derived from cellulose may not be feasible. We are developing CodeXyme™ cellulase enzymes for use in producing advanced biofuels and bio-based chemicals. However, production and commercialization of cellulosic biofuels and bio-based chemicals may not be feasible for a variety of reasons. For example, the development of technology for converting sugar derived from cellulosic biomass into a commercially viable biofuel or bio-based chemical is still unproven, and we do not know whether this can be done commercially or at all. To date, there has been limited private and government funding for research and development in advanced biofuels relative to the scope of the challenges presented by this development effort. Furthermore, there have been only a few well-directed public policies emphasizing investment in the research and development of, and providing incentives for the commercialization of and transition to, biofuels. As of the date of this report, we believe that there are no commercial scale cellulosic biofuel or cellulosic bio-based chemicals production plants in operation. There can be no assurance that anyone will be able or willing to develop and operate these production plants at commercial scale or that any of these facilities can be profitable. Additionally, different cellulases may need to be developed for use in different geographic locations to convert the cellulosic biomass available in each locale into sugars that can be used in the production of these biofuels or bio-based chemicals. This will make the development of biofuels or bio-based chemicals derived from cellulose more challenging and expensive. Moreover, substantial development of infrastructure will be required for the ethanol market to grow. Areas requiring expansion include, but are not limited to, additional rail capacity, additional storage facilities for ethanol, increases in truck fleets capable of transporting ethanol within localized markets, expansion of refining and blending facilities to handle ethanol, logistics for the collection and storage of cellulosic biomass and growth in the fleet of end user vehicles capable of using ethanol blends. Substantial investments required for infrastructure changes and expansions may not be made on a timely basis or at all. Any delay or failure in making the changes to or expansion of infrastructure could harm demand or prices for ethanol and impose additional costs that would hinder its commercialization. Finally, if existing tax credits, subsidies and other incentives in the United States and foreign markets are phased out or reduced, the overall cost of commercialization of cellulosic biofuels will increase. 32 Table of Contents If we lose key personnel, including key management personnel, or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, including a permanent Chief Executive Officer and a permanent Chief Financial Officer, it could disrupt the operation of our business, delay our product development programs, harm our research and development efforts, and we may be unable to pursue collaborations or develop our own products. Our business involves complex, global operations across a variety of markets and requires a management team and employee workforce that is knowledgeable in the many areas in which we operate. The loss of any key members of our management team or the failure to attract or retain other key employees who possess the requisite expertise for the conduct of our business, could prevent us from developing and commercializing our products for our target markets and entering into collaborations or licensing arrangements to execute on our business strategy. We are currently conducting a search for a permanent Chief Executive Officer and a permanent Chief Financial Officer. Until we are able to hire a permanent Chief Executive Officer and a permanent Chief Financial Officer, we may be unable to manage our business effectively and it may be more difficult for us to hire and retain other personnel. Even if we are able to hire and retain a permanent Chief Executive Officer and a permanent Chief Financial Officer in a timely manner, we may continue to experience operational inefficiency and disruptions during the transition period. In addition, the loss of any key scientific staff, or the failure to attract or retain other key scientific employees, could prevent us from developing and commercializing our products for our target markets and entering into collaborations or licensing arrangements to execute on our business strategy. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified employees in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology and other technology-based businesses, particularly in the areas of biofuels and bio-based chemicals, or due to the availability of personnel with the qualifications or experience necessary for our business. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience staffing constraints that will adversely affect our ability to meet the demands of our collaborators and customers in a timely fashion or to support our internal research and development programs. In particular, our product and process development programs are dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled scientists and engineers. Competition for experienced scientists and other technical personnel from numerous companies and academic and other research institutions may limit our ability to do so on acceptable terms. All of our employees are at-will employees, which means that either the employee or we may terminate their employment at any time. Our planned activities will require additional expertise in specific industries and areas applicable to the products and processes developed through our technology platform or acquired through strategic or other transactions, especially in the end markets that we seek to penetrate. These activities will require the addition of new personnel, and the development of additional expertise by existing personnel. The inability to attract personnel with appropriate skills or to develop the necessary expertise could impair our ability to grow our business. Additionally, we would be in breach of certain agreements, including our collaborative research agreement with Shell, if we fail to maintain a specified number of personnel. We are dependent on a limited number of customers. Our current revenues are derived from a limited number of key customers. For the year ended December 31, 2010, our top five customers accounted for 85% of our total revenues, with Shell accounting for 62% of our total revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2011, our top five customers accounted for 77% of our total revenues, with Shell accounting for 51% of our total revenues. We expect a limited number of customers to continue to account for a significant portion oftoc our revenues for the foreseeable future. This customer concentration increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. The loss or reduction of business from one or a combination of our significant customers could materially adversely affect our revenues, financial condition and results of operations. 33 Table of Contents We are dependent on a limited number of products in our pharmaceutical business. Our current product revenues are derived from a limited number of pharmaceutical products. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we derived 83% of our product revenue from two pharmaceutical product families: statins, and hepatitis C therapies. We expect a limited number of pharmaceutical products to continue to account for a significant portion of our pharmaceutical product revenues for the foreseeable future. This product concentration increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. The loss or reduction of business of one or a combination of our significant pharmaceutical products could materially adversely affect our revenues, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on one contract manufacturer for commercial scale production of substantially all of our enzymes. We have limited internal capacity to manufacture enzymes. As a result, we are dependent upon the performance and capacity of third party manufacturers for the commercial scale manufacturing of the enzymes used in our pharmaceutical and cellulase businesses. We rely on one contract manufacturer for our pharmaceutical business, Lactosan GmbH & Co. KG, or Lactosan, to manufacture substantially all of the commercial enzymes used in our pharmaceutical business. Our pharmaceutical business, therefore, faces risks of difficulties with, and interruptions in, performance by Lactosan, the occurrence of which could adversely impact the availability, launch and/or sales of our enzymes in the future. We have qualified other contract manufacturers to manufacture enzymes for our pharmaceutical business, but we do not currently rely on them for any of our supply requirements. The failure of any contract manufacturers that we may use to supply manufactured product on a timely basis or at all, or to manufacture our enzymes in compliance with our specifications or applicable quality requirements or in volumes sufficient to meet demand would adversely affect our ability to sell pharmaceutical products, could harm our relationships with our collaborators or customers and could negatively affect our revenues and operating results. For example, in 2008, we were required to secure an alternative source of certain enzymes when viruses infected the facilities of a contract manufacturer that we were using at the time. If this or any similar event disrupts the operations of any of our suppliers in the future, we may be forced to secure alternative sources of supply, which may be unavailable on commercially acceptable terms, cause delays in our ability to deliver products to our customers, increase our costs and decrease our profit margins. We do not have any supply agreements in place with any contract manufacturers, other than Lactosan. In the absence of a supply agreement, a contract manufacturer will be under no obligation to manufacture our enzymes and could elect to discontinue their manufacture at any time. If we require additional manufacturing capacity and are unable to obtain it in sufficient quantity, we may not be able to increase our pharmaceutical sales, or we may be required to make substantial capital investments to build that capacity or to contract with other manufacturers on terms that may be less favorable than the terms we currently have with our suppliers. If we choose to build our own additional manufacturing capacity, it could take two years or longer before our facility is able to produce commercial volumes of our enzymes. Any resources we expend on acquiring or building internal manufacturing capabilities could be at the expense of other potentially more profitable opportunities. In addition, if we contract with other manufacturers, we may experience delays of several months in qualifying them, which could harm our relationships with our collaborators or customers and could negatively affect our revenues or operating results. We also expect to use contract manufacturers to produce our cellulase enzymes. Our cellulase business will encounter similar risks in engaging contract manufacturers as our pharmaceutical business in the event we elect to use contract manufacturers. 34 Table of Contents We rely on Arch to market our products in certain regions, and Arch may not be able to effectively market our products. Using our enzymes, Arch manufactures certain specified APIs and intermediates used in the manufacture of APIs, that we then purchase and have the right to sell to innovator pharmaceutical companies worldwide, generic pharmaceutical companies in the United States, Canada, Europe and Israel, and certain pharmaceutical companies in India. Arch has the exclusive right to manufacture market and sell such APIs and intermediaries to generic pharmaceutical companies in countries other than the United States, Canada, Europe and Israel, and certain other pharmaceutical companies in India. We must therefore rely on Arch for their financial resources and their marketing expertise for the commercialization of such APIs and intermediates in these regions. We cannot control Arch’s level of activity or expenditures relating to the marketing of such products relative to the rest of their products or marketing efforts. Arch may fail to effectively market our products in these regions. Conflicting priorities, competing demands or other factors that we cannot control, and of which we may not be aware, may cause Arch to deemphasize such products. If we are unable to effectively leverage Arch’s marketing capabilities or Arch does not successfully promote such products in the designated territories as our sole marketing partner, this could harm our business, our revenues and operating results, and our ability to bring such products to the marketplace. We are required to assess our internal control over financial reporting in the future on an annual basis and any adverse findings from such assessment could impair our ability to accurately and timely report our results of operation and result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports, significant expenses to remediate any internal control deficiencies and adverse effects on our stock price. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we are required to perform an annual evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting . Although, as of December 31, 2011, we concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective, we cannot make assurances that, in the future, material weaknesses or significant deficiencies will not exist or otherwise be discovered, a risk that is significantly increased in light of the complexity of our business and multinational operations. We need to maintain our processes and systems and adapt them as our business grows and changes in order to maintain compliance with Section 404, a process that is expensive, time-consuming and requires significant management attention. Furthermore, as we grow our business or acquire other businesses, our internal controls may become more complex and we may require significantly more resources to ensure they remain effective. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify internal control deficiencies in the future, our ability to accurately and timely report our financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be impaired, which could result in late filings of our annual and quarterly reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, restatements of our consolidated financial statements, significant expenses to remediate any such deficiencies, a decline in our stock price, suspension or delisting of our common stock by The NASDAQ Global Market, or other material adverse effects on our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. We may encounter difficulties managing our growth, which could adversely affect our business. Our business has grown rapidly and this growth may continue in the future. Overall, we have grown from approximately 40 employees at the end of 2002 to approximately 347 employees as of December 31, 2011. Currently, we are working simultaneously on multiple projects targeting several markets. Furthermore, we are conducting our business across several countries, including countries in North America, South America, Europe and Asia. These diversified, global operations place increased demands on our limited resources and may require us to expand the capabilities of our administrative and operational resources and to attract, train, manage and retain qualified management, technicians, scientists and other personnel which we may be unable to do effectively. As our operations expand domestically and internationally, we will need to continue to manage multiple locations and additional relationships with various customers, collaborators, suppliers and other third parties. Our ability to manage our operations, growth, and various projects effectively may require us to make 35 Table of Contents additional investments in our infrastructure to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. In addition, we may not be able to successfully improve our management information and control systems, including our internal control over financial reporting, to a level necessary to manage our growth and we may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls that we may not be able to remediate in an efficient or timely manner. Our business could be adversely affected if our customers’ pharmaceutical products are not received well in the market, if their pharmaceutical products, or the processes used by our customers to manufacture their final pharmaceutical products, fail to be approved, or if our customers discontinue their drug development activities for any reason. Our enzymes are used in the manufacture of intermediates and APIs which are then used in the manufacture of final pharmaceutical products by our existing and potential branded drug customers. Our business could be adversely affected if these final pharmaceutical products do not perform in the market as well as expected, or if our customers encounter competition from new entrants into the market with competing, and possibly superior, pharmaceutical products. Additionally, these pharmaceutical products must be approved by the FDA in the United States and similar regulatory bodies in other markets prior to commercialization. If our customers who sell branded-drugs, which we refer to as innovators, fail to receive regulatory approval for the drugs, fail to receive regulatory approval for new manufacturing processes for previously approved drugs, or decide for business or other reasons to discontinue their drug development activities, our revenues and prospects will be negatively impacted. The process of producing these drugs, and their generic equivalents, is also subject to regulation by the FDA in the United States and equivalent regulatory bodies in other markets. If any pharmaceutical process that uses our enzymes does not receive approval by the appropriate regulatory body or if customers decide not to pursue approval, our business could be adversely affected. Our pharmaceutical product gross margins are variable and may decline from quarter to quarter. Our pharmaceutical product gross margins have varied significantly in the past and may continue to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year in the future due to a variety of factors, including product mix, pricing pressure from our pharmaceutical customers and competition from other products or technologies. We do not expect product gross margins for our current generic products to improve in the near or long term, which may have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition and cause our stock price to decline. If we are unable to develop and commercialize new products for the pharmaceutical market, our business and prospects will be harmed. We plan to launch new products for the pharmaceutical market. These efforts are subject to numerous risks, including the following: • pharmaceutical companies may be reluctant to adopt new manufacturing processes that use our enzymes; • we may be unable to successfully develop the enzymes or manufacturing processes for our products in a timely and cost-effective manner, if at all; • we may face difficulties in transferring the developed technologies to our customers and the contract manufacturers that we may use for commercial scale production of intermediates and enzymes; • the contract manufacturers that we may use may be unable to scale their manufacturing operations to meet the demand for these products and we may be unable to secure additional manufacturing capacity; • customers may not be willing to purchase these products for the pharmaceutical market from us on favorable terms, if at all; • we may face product liability litigation, unexpected safety or efficacy concerns and pharmaceutical product recalls or withdrawals; 36 Table of Contents • changes in laws or regulations relating to the pharmaceutical industry could cause us to incur increased costs of compliance or otherwise harm our business; • our customers’ pharmaceutical products may experience adverse events or face competition from new products, which would reduce demand for our products; • we may face pressure from existing or new competitive products; and • we may face pricing pressures from existing or new competitors, some of which may benefit from government subsidies or other incentives. If we are unable to maintain license rights to a commercial scale expression system for enzymes that convert cellulosic biomass to sugars, our business may be materially adversely affected. We entered into a license agreement with Dyadic International, Inc. and its affiliate, or Dyadic, in November 2008 to obtain access to an expression system and the enzymes that convert cellulosic biomass to sugars. Under the license agreement with Dyadic, we obtained a non-exclusive license under intellectual property rights of Dyadic relating to Dyadic’s proprietary fungal expression technology for the production of enzymes and to the cellulase enzymes. We also obtained access to specified materials of Dyadic relating to such Dyadic technology. Our license is sublicenseable to Shell in the field of biofuels. Dyadic has the right to terminate our licenses under the license agreement if we challenge the validity of any of the patents licensed under the license agreement and for various other reasons. Our licenses and access to such materials of Dyadic under the license agreement will terminate as a result of any termination of the license agreement other than due to Dyadic’s material breach. If we are unable to maintain these rights on commercially reasonable terms or if the license agreement is terminated for any reason, we will need to buy or license this type of expression system from another party or develop this type of expression system ourselves, which may be difficult, costly and time consuming, in part because of the broad, existing intellectual property rights owned by Novozymes and E.I. Du Pont De Nemours and Company, or DuPont, and others. If any of these events occur, our business may be materially adversely affected. Fluctuations in the price of and demand for certain commodities may reduce demand for the commercial products that use our technology, thus reducing demand for our technology. Biofuels and some bio-based chemicals are anticipated to be marketed as an alternative to fossil fuel-based products. Therefore, if the price of natural gas or oil falls, any revenues that we generate from biofuel or bio-based chemical products could decline, and we may be unable to produce products that are a commercially viable alternative to fossil fuel-based products. Additionally, demand for liquid transportation fuels, including biofuels, may decrease due to economic conditions or otherwise. Demand for bio-based chemicals may also decrease if the price of natural gas or oil decreases. Similarly, CodeXyme™ cellulase enzymes s are used in producing fermentable sugars, which are anticipated to be marketed as an alternative to fermentable sugars from sugar and starch food sources, such as corn and sugar cane. Therefore, if the price of sugar falls, the demand for CodeXyme™ cellulase enzymes, may fall, and we may be unable to produce cellulase enzymes for use in producing fermentable sugars that are a commercially viable alternative to fermentable sugars from sugar and starch food sources. Our biofuel and bio-based chemical business opportunities may be limited by the availability, cost or location of renewable feedstocks. Our business opportunities in the biofuel and bio-based chemical markets may be dependent on the availability and price of feedstocks, including sugar, starch and cellulosic biomass. If the availability of these feedstocks decreases or their price increases, this may reduce the desirability of our biofuel and bio-based chemical products, as well as the biofuels royalties that we collect from Shell, and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. At certain levels, prices may make these products uneconomical to use and produce. 37 Table of Contents The price and availability of feedstocks may be influenced by general economic, market and regulatory factors. These factors include the availability of arable land to supply feedstock, weather conditions, farming decisions, logistics for collection and storage of cellulosic biomass, government policies and subsidies with respect to agriculture and international trade, and global demand and supply. The significance and relative impact of these factors on the price of feedstocks is difficult to predict, especially without knowing what types of feedstocks we may need to use. Our current business plan for the biofuel and bio-based chemical markets is to leverage our primary competitive strength, which we believe is our ability to optimize the performance of CodeXyme™ cellulase enzymes rapidly for varying feedstocks and process conditions. While CodeXyme™ cellulase enzymes may perform well on specific feedstocks and under certain process conditions, it might not perform well on other feedstocks or process conditions. If CodeXyme™ cellulase enzymes do not perform as planned on our customers’ feedstocks, our business may be adversely affected. Reductions or changes to existing biofuel regulations and policies may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers, all of which may significantly reduce demand for biofuels. The market for biofuels is heavily influenced by foreign, federal, state and local government regulations and policies concerning the petroleum industry. In 2007, the U.S. Congress passed an alternative fuels mandate that currently calls for approximately 36 billion gallons of liquid transportation fuels sold in 2022 to come from alternative sources, including biofuels. Of this amount, a minimum of 21 billion gallons must be advanced biofuels, with 16 billion gallons of that to be cellulosic derived. In the U.S. and a number of other countries, these regulations and policies have been modified in the past and may be modified again in the future. For example, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has the authority to adjust or reduce the gallon milestones of the alternative fuels mandate to reflect the marketplace supply availability. Any reduction in mandated requirements for fuel alternatives and additives to gasoline may cause demand for biofuels to decline and deter investment in the research and development of biofuels. Congressional and market uncertainty regarding future policies will affect our ability to develop new biofuels products or to license our technologies to third parties. Any inability to address these requirements and any regulatory or policy changes could have a material adverse effect on our biofuels business, financial condition and operating results. Our other potential bioindustrial products may be subject to additional regulations. We cannot assure you that our potential bio-based chemical products will be approved or accepted by customers. We have only recently entered the market for bio-based chemical products used by large consumer products or chemical companies through our collaboration with Gruppo Mossi & Ghisolfi, or M&G, and we intend to explore other opportunities in these markets. In entering these markets, we intend to sell our bio-based chemical products, like CodeXol™ detergent alcohols, as alternatives to chemicals currently in use, and in some cases the chemicals that we seek to replace have been used for many years. The potential customers for our bio-based chemical products generally have well developed manufacturing processes and arrangements with suppliers of the chemical components of their products and may resist changing these processes and components. These potential customers frequently impose lengthy and complex product qualification procedures on their suppliers. Factors that these potential customers consider during the product qualification process include consumer preference, manufacturing considerations such as process changes and capital and other costs associated with transitioning to alternative components, supplier operating history, regulatory issues, product liability and other factors, many of which are unknown to, or not well understood by, us. Satisfying these processes may take many months or years. If we are unable to convince these potential customers that our products are comparable to the chemicals that they currently use or that the use of our products produces benefits to them, we will not be successful in these markets and our business will be adversely affected. Additionally, in contrast to the tax incentives relating to biofuels, tax credits and subsidies are not currently available in the United States for consumer products or chemical companies who use our bio-based chemical products. 38 Table of Contents We have only limited experience in independently developing, manufacturing, marketing, selling and distributing commercial cellulase enzymes. We currently have only limited resources and capability to develop, manufacture, market, sell or distribute CodeXyme™ cellulase enzymes on a commercial scale. We will determine how to best deploy these limited resources based on various criteria, including: investment required, estimated time to market, regulatory hurdles, infrastructure requirements and industry-specific expertise necessary for successful commercialization. At any time, we may modify our strategy and pursue collaborations for the development and commercialization of CodeXyme™ cellulase enzymes that we intended to pursue independently. We may pursue opportunities that ultimately require more resources than we anticipate or which may be technically unsuccessful. In order for us to commercialize CodeXyme™ cellulase enzymes directly, we would need to establish or obtain through outsourcing arrangements additional capability to develop, manufacture, market, sell and distribute CodeXyme™ cellulase enzymes. If we are unable to successfully commercialize CodeXyme™ cellulase enzymes resulting from our internal product development efforts, we will continue to incur losses. Even if we successfully develop and commercialize CodeXyme™ cellulase enzymes, we may not generate significant sales and achieve profitability in our business. Our government grants are subject to uncertainty, which could harm our business and results of operations. We have received various government grants to complement and enhance our own resources. We may seek to obtain government grants and subsidies in the future to offset all or a portion of the costs of building additional manufacturing facilities and research and development activities. We cannot be certain that we will be able to secure any such government grants or subsidies. Any of our existing grants or new grants that we may obtain may be terminated, modified or recovered by the granting governmental body under certain conditions. We are subject to routine audits by government agencies or other third parties as part of our government grants contracts. The government auditor may review our performance, cost structures and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. Funds available under grants must be applied by us toward the research and development programs specified by the granting agencies, rather than for all of our programs generally. If any of our costs are found to be allocated improperly, the costs may not be reimbursed and any costs already reimbursed may have to be refunded. Accordingly, an audit could result in an adjustment to our revenues and results of operations. We face risks associated with our international business. Significant portions of our operations are conducted outside of the United States and we expect to continue to have significant foreign operations in the foreseeable future. International business operations are subject to a variety of risks, including: • changes in or interpretations of foreign regulations that may adversely affect our ability to sell our products, repatriate profits to the United States or operate our foreign-located facilities; • the imposition of tariffs; • the imposition of limitations on, or increase of, withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries or joint ventures; • the imposition of limitations on genetically-engineered products or processes and the production or sale of those products or processes in foreign countries; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • uncertainties relating to foreign laws, regulations and legal proceedings including tax, anti-corruption and exchange control laws; • the availability of government subsidies or other incentives that benefit competitors in their local markets that are not available to us; 39 Table of Contents • economic or political instability in foreign countries; • difficulties associated with staffing and managing foreign operations; and • the need to comply with a variety of U.S. and foreign laws applicable to the conduct of international business, including import and export control laws and anti-corruption laws. Many of our pharmaceutical intermediates are manufactured in India, which has stringent local regulations that make it difficult for money earned in India to be taken out of the country without being subject to Indian taxes. While our Indian subsidiary can make use of some of the funds we earn in India, these regulations may limit the amount of profits we can repatriate from operations in India. Additionally, we have recently begun doing business in Brazil and we will likely need to secure licenses, permits or other governmental approvals in order to use our technology there. The failure to obtain any applicable licenses, permits or other governmental approvals could delay or prevent the deployment of our technology in Brazil. If we engage in any acquisitions, we will incur a variety of costs and may potentially face numerous risks that could adversely affect our business and operations. We have made acquisitions in the past, and if appropriate opportunities become available, we expect to acquire additional businesses, assets, technologies, or products to enhance our business in the future. For example, in October 2010, we acquired substantially all of the patents and other intellectual property rights associated with Maxygen’s dirted evolution technology. In connection with any future acquisitions, we could: • issue additional equity securities which would dilute our current stockholders; • incur substantial debt to fund the acquisitions; • use our cash to fund the acquisitions; or • assume significant liabilities including litigation risk. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including problems integrating the purchased operations, technologies or products, unanticipated costs and other liabilities, diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses, adverse effects on existing business relationships with current and/or prospective collaborators, customers and/or suppliers, risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience and potential loss of key employees. We do not have extensive experience in managing the integration process and we may not be able to successfully integrate any businesses, assets, products, technologies, or personnel that we might acquire in the future without a significant expenditure of operating, financial and management resources, if at all. The integration process could divert management’s time from focusing on operating our business, result in a decline in employee morale and cause retention issues to arise from changes in compensation, reporting relationships, future prospects or the direction of the business. Acquisitions may also require us to record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges, incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets, and incur large and immediate write offs and restructuring and other related expenses, all of which could harm our operating results and financial condition. In addition, we may acquire companies that have insufficient internal financial controls, which could impair our ability to integrate the acquired company and adversely impact our financial reporting. If we fail in our integration efforts with respect to any of our acquisitions and are unable to efficiently operate as a combined organization, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. We must rely on our suppliers, contract manufacturers and customers to deliver timely and accurate information in order to accurately report our financial results in the time frame and manner required by law. We need to receive timely, accurate and complete information from a number of third parties in order to accurately report our financial results on a timely basis. We rely on third parties that sell our pharmaceutical products that are manufactured using our biocatalysts to provide us with complete and accurate information 40 Table of Contents regarding revenues, costs of revenues and payments owed to us on a timely basis. In addition, we rely on suppliers and certain contract manufacturers, including Arch, to provide us with timely and accurate information regarding our inventories and manufacturing cost information, and we rely on current and former collaborators to provide us with product sales and cost saving information in connection with royalties owed to us. Any failure to receive timely information from one or more of these third parties could require that we estimate a greater portion of our revenues and other operating performance metrics for the period, which could cause our reported financial results to be incorrect. Moreover, if the information that we receive is not accurate, our financial statements may be materially incorrect and may require restatement, and we may not receive the full amount of revenues that we are entitled to under these arrangements. Although we typically have audit rights with these parties, performing such an audit could be harmful to our collaborative relationships, expensive and time consuming and may not be sufficient to reveal any discrepancies in a timeframe consistent with our reporting requirements. Our ability to compete may decline if we do not adequately protect our proprietary technologies or if we lose some of our intellectual property rights. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property for our technologies and products and potential products in the United States and other countries. We have adopted a strategy of seeking patent protection in the United States and in foreign countries with respect to certain of the technologies used in or relating to our products and processes. As such, as of December 31, 2011, we owned or controlled approximately 270 issued patents and approximately 280 pending patent applications in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions. Some of our gene shuffling patents will expire as early as 2014. We also have license rights to a number of issued patents and pending patent applications in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions. Our owned and licensed patents and patent applications are directed to our enabling technologies and to the methods and products that support our business in the pharmaceuticals and bioindustrials markets. We intend to continue to apply for patents relating to our technologies, methods and products as we deem appropriate. Numerous patents in our portfolio involve complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, enforceability cannot be predicted with any certainty. Issued patents and patents issuing from pending applications may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented. Moreover, the U.S. Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, enacted in September 2011, brings significant changes to the U.S. patent system, which include a change to a “first to file” system from a “first to invent” system and changes to the procedures for challenging issued patents and disputing patent applications during the examination process, among other things. The effects of these changes on our patent portfolio and business have yet to be determined, as the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office must still implement regulations relating to these changes and U.S. courts have yet to address the new provisions, but in any event, these changes could increase the costs and uncertainties surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our patent rights. Additional uncertainty may result from legal precedent handed down by the United States Federal Circuit and Supreme Court as they determine legal issues concerning the scope and construction of patent claims and inconsistent interpretation of patent laws by the lower courts. Accordingly, we cannot ensure that any of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents, or even if issued, predict the breadth of the claims upheld in our and other companies’ patents. Given that the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain, we cannot ensure that: (i) we were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending applications, (ii) we were the first to file patent applications for these inventions, or (iii) the proprietary technologies we develop will be patentable. In addition, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in certain foreign countries where the local laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Moreover, third parties could practice our inventions in territories where we do not have patent protection. Such third parties may then try to import products made using our inventions into the United States or other territories. If competitors are able to use our technology, our ability to compete effectively could be harmed. Moreover, others may independently develop and obtain patents for 41 Table of Contents technologies that are similar to or superior to our technologies. If that happens, we may need to license these technologies, and we may not be able to obtain licenses on reasonable terms, if at all, which could cause harm to our business. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights or other proprietary rights, which may subject us to costly and time consuming litigation and prevent us from developing or commercializing our products. Our commercial success also depends in part on our ability to operate without infringing patents and proprietary rights of third parties, and without breaching any licenses or other agreements that we have entered into with regard to our technologies, products and business. We cannot ensure that patents have not been issued to third parties that could block our ability to obtain patents or to operate as we would like. There may be patents in some countries that, if valid, may block our ability to make, use or sell our products in those countries, or import our products into those countries, if we are unsuccessful in circumventing or acquiring the rights to these patents. There also may be claims in patent applications filed in some countries that, if granted and valid, may also block our ability to commercialize products or processes in these countries if we are unable to circumvent or license them. The industries in which we operate, and the biotechnology industry in particular, are characterized by frequent and extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Many biotechnology companies have employed intellectual property litigation as a way to gain a competitive advantage. Our involvement in litigation, interferences, opposition proceedings or other intellectual property proceedings inside and outside of the United States, to defend our intellectual property rights or as a result of alleged infringement of the rights of others, may divert our management’s time from focusing on business operations and could cause us to spend significant amounts of money. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: • stop selling, or using our products or technologies that use the subject intellectual property; • pay monetary damages or substantial royalties; • grant cross-licenses to third parties relating to our patents or proprietary rights; • obtain from the third party asserting its intellectual property rights a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or • redesign those products or processes that use any allegedly infringing technology, or relocate the operations relating to the allegedly infringing technology to another jurisdiction, which may result in significant cost or delay to us, could be technically infeasible or could prevent us from selling some of our products in the United States or other jurisdictions. We are aware of a significant number of patents and patent applications relating to aspects of our technologies filed by, and issued to, third parties. We cannot assure you that if this third party intellectual property is asserted against us that we would ultimately prevail. If any of our competitors have filed patent applications or obtained patents that claim inventions also claimed by us, we may have to participate in interference proceedings before the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention and, thus, the right to the patents for these inventions in the United States. These proceedings could result in substantial cost to us even if the outcome is favorable. Even if successful, any interference may result in loss of certain claims. Any litigation or proceedings could divert our management’s time and efforts. Even unsuccessful claims could result in significant legal fees and other expenses, diversion of management time, and disruption in our business. Uncertainties resulting from initiation and continuation of any patent or related litigation could harm our ability to compete. 42 Table of Contents We may not be able to enforce our intellectual property rights throughout the world. The laws of some foreign countries, including India, where we manufacture pharmaceutical intermediates and APIs through contract manufacturers, and Brazil, where we have recently begun to do business, do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in certain foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property, particularly those relating to biotechnology and/or bioindustrial technologies. Accordingly, our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights in such countries may be inadequate. This could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents or misappropriation of our other intellectual property rights. Additionally, proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial costs and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. If our biocatalysts, or the genes that code for our biocatalysts, are stolen, misappropriated or reverse engineered, others could use these biocatalysts or genes to produce competing products. Third parties, including our contract manufacturers, customers and those involved in shipping our biocatalysts often have custody or control of our biocatalysts. If our biocatalysts, or the genes that code for our biocatalysts, were stolen, misappropriated or reverse engineered, they could be used by other parties who may be able to reproduce these biocatalysts for their own commercial gain. If this were to occur, it would be difficult for us to challenge this type of use, especially in countries with limited intellectual property protection or in countries in which we do not have patents covering the misappropriated biocatalysts. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosures of trade secrets and other proprietary information. We rely in part on trade secret protection to protect our confidential and proprietary information and processes. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We have taken measures to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, but these measures may not be effective. We require employees and consultants to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of an employment or consulting arrangement with us. These agreements generally require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual’s relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. These agreements also generally provide that inventions conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us shall be our exclusive property. Nevertheless, our proprietary information may be disclosed, third parties could reverse engineer our biocatalysts and others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. Competitors and potential competitors who have greater resources and experience than we do may develop products and technologies that make ours obsolete or may use their greater resources to gain market share at our expense. The biocatalysis industry and each of our target markets are characterized by rapid technological change. Our future success will depend on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to technological advances. In addition, as we enter new markets, we will face new competition and will need to adapt to competitive factors that may be different from what we face today. We are aware that other companies, including Royal DSM N.V., or DSM, DuPont, Novozymes, and Vercipia Biofuels, an affiliate of BP p.l.c., have alternative methods for obtaining and generating genetic diversity or use 43 Table of Contents mutagenesis techniques to produce genetic diversity. Academic institutions such as the California Institute of Technology, the Max Planck Institute and the Center for Fundamental and Applied Molecular Evolution (FAME), a jointly sponsored initiative between Emory University and Georgia Institute of Technology, are also working in this field. Technological development by others may result in our products and technologies, as well as products developed by our customers using our biocatalysts, becoming obsolete. We face intense competition in the pharmaceuticals market. There are a number of companies who compete with us throughout the various stages of a pharmaceutical product’s lifecycle. Many large pharmaceutical companies have internal capabilities to develop and manufacture intermediates and APIs. These companies include many of our large innovator and generic pharmaceutical customers, such as Merck, Pfizer and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. There are also many large, well-established fine chemical manufacturing companies, such as DSM, BASF Corporation and Lonza Group Ltd, that compete to supply pharmaceutical intermediates and APIs to our customers. We also face increasing competition from generic pharmaceutical manufacturers in low cost centers such as India and China. In addition to competition from companies manufacturing APIs and intermediates, we face competition from companies that sell biocatalysts for use in the pharmaceutical market. There is competition from large industrial enzyme companies, such as Novozymes and Amano Enzyme Inc., whose industrial enzymes (for detergents, for example) are occasionally used in pharmaceutical processes. There is also competition in this area from several small companies with product offerings comprised primarily of naturally occurring biocatalysts or that offer biocatalyst optimization services. We expect to enter the market for cellulases, which are used to produce sugar for the manufacture of biofuels and bio-based chemicals. Our significant competitors in this market include Novozymes and DuPont, which have both been active in this market for many years. Novozymes, has partnered with a number of companies and organizations on a regional basis to develop cellulases for the production of biofuels, including partnering with M&G in Italy to be the cellulase supplier to a commercial scale cellulosic ethanol plant being built by M&G, and DuPont is marketing a line of cellulases to convert cellulosic biomass into sugar. These competitors have greater resources than we do, own or otherwise control established intellectual rights portfolios, have existing relationships with customers that we hope to sell CodeXyme™ cellulases to, have long-term supply agreements already in place with customers for their bio-based products, and have the supply chain in place to sell their cellulases on a global platform. Our ability to compete in this market may be limited by our relatively late start. There are also other companies developing competing cellulosic ethanol technologies. Significant competitors include companies such as: Novozymes, which is opening a biofuel demonstration plant with Inbicon A/S of Denmark; DuPont Danisco Cellulosic Ethanol, or DDCE, which is developing facilities to produce cellulosic ethanol; DSM, which recently acquired C5 Yeast Company B.V. enhancing DSM’s position in the cellulosic biofuel sector; Mascoma Corporation, which entered into a definitive agreement with Valero Energy Corporation in December 2011 to build a commercial-scale cellulosic ethanol biorefinery; BP, which is developing a commercial scale cellulosic ethanol facility through its affiliate Vercipia Biofuels; and Coskata, Inc., which is developing a hybrid thermochemical-biocatalytic process to produce ethanol from a variety of feedstocks. With our CodeXol™ detergent alcohols, we have recently entered the bio-based chemical market. Our significant competitors in this market include companies that have been active in this marketplace for many years, namely Sasol, Shell, BASF, Kao Corporation and Liaoning Huaxing. These companies have greater resources in this market than we do and have long-term supply arrangements already in place with consumer products companies. Our ability to compete in this market may be limited by our relatively late start. Our ability to compete successfully in any of these markets will depend on our ability to develop proprietary products that reach the market in a timely manner and are technologically superior to and/or are less expensive than other products on the market. Many of our competitors have substantially greater production, financial, research and development, personnel and marketing resources than we do. They also started developing products 44 Table of Contents earlier than we did, which may allow them to establish blocking intellectual property positions or bring products to market before we can. In addition, certain of our competitors may also benefit from local government subsidies and other incentives that are not available to us. As a result, our competitors may be able to develop competing and/or superior technologies and processes, and compete more aggressively and sustain that competition over a longer period of time than we could. Our technologies and products may be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances or entirely different approaches developed by one or more of our competitors. We cannot be certain that any products we develop in the future will compare favorably to products offered by our competitors or that our existing or future products will compare favorably to any new products that are developed by our competitors. As more companies develop new intellectual property in our markets, the possibility of a competitor acquiring patent or other rights that may limit our products or potential products increases, which could lead to litigation. In addition, various governments have recently announced a number of spending programs focused on the development of clean technology, including alternatives to petroleum-based fuels. Such spending programs could lead to increased funding for our competitors or the rapid increase in the number of competitors within those markets. Our limited resources relative to many of our competitors may cause us to fail to anticipate or respond adequately to new developments and other competitive pressures. This failure could reduce our competitiveness and market share, adversely affect our results of operations and financial position, and prevent us from obtaining or maintaining profitability. Business interruptions could delay us in the process of developing our products and could disrupt our sales. Our headquarters is located in the San Francisco Bay Area near known earthquake fault zones and is vulnerable to significant damage from earthquakes. We are also vulnerable to other types of natural disasters and other events that could disrupt our operations, such as riot, civil disturbances, war, terrorist acts, flood, infections in our laboratory or production facilities or those of our contract manufacturers and other events beyond our control. We do not have a detailed disaster recovery plan. In addition, we do not carry insurance for earthquakes and we may not carry sufficient business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur. Any losses or damages we incur could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and success as an overall business. Furthermore, Shell may terminate our collaborative research agreement if a force majeure event interrupts our collaboration activities for more than ninety days. Ethical, legal and social concerns about genetically engineered products and processes could limit or prevent the use of our products, processes, and technologies and limit our revenues. Some of our products and processes are genetically engineered or involve the use of genetically engineered products or genetic engineering technologies. If we and/or our collaborators are not able to overcome the ethical, legal, and social concerns relating to genetic engineering, our products and processes may not be accepted. Any of the risks discussed below could result in increased expenses, delays, or other impediments to our programs or the public acceptance and commercialization of products and processes dependent on our technologies or inventions. Our ability to develop and commercialize one or more of our technologies, products, or processes could be limited by the following factors: • public attitudes about the safety and environmental hazards of, and ethical concerns over, genetic research and genetically engineered products and processes, which could influence public acceptance of our technologies, products and processes; • public attitudes regarding, and potential changes to laws governing ownership of genetic material, which could harm our intellectual property rights with respect to our genetic material and discourage collaborators from supporting, developing, or commercializing our products, processes and technologies; and 45 Table of Contents • governmental reaction to negative publicity concerning genetically modified organisms, which could result in greater government regulation of genetic research and derivative products. The subject of genetically modified organisms has received negative publicity, which has aroused public debate. This adverse publicity could lead to greater regulation and trade restrictions on imports of genetically altered products. The biocatalysts that we develop have significantly enhanced characteristics compared to those found in naturally occurring enzymes or microbes. While we produce our biocatalysts only for use in a controlled industrial environment, the release of such biocatalysts into uncontrolled environments could have unintended consequences. Any adverse effect resulting from such a release could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, and we may have exposure to liability for any resulting harm. Compliance with stringent laws and regulations may be time consuming and costly, which could adversely affect the commercialization of our bioindustrial products. Our bioindustrial products, including those used in the biofuels and bio-based chemicals markets, will need to meet a significant number of regulations and standards, including regulations imposed by the U.S. Department of Transportation, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, various state agencies and others. In addition, our bioindustrial products will be subject to foreign regulations if we attempt to produce or sell our products outside the United States. For example, we expect that our products and technologies will be subject to import and export controls when they are shipped internationally. Any failure to comply, or delays in compliance, with the various existing and evolving industry regulations and standards could prevent or delay the commercialization of any bioindustrial products developed using our technologies and subject us to fines and other penalties. We use hazardous materials in our business and we must comply with environmental laws and regulations. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials or noncompliance of applicable laws and regulations could be time consuming and costly and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our research and development processes involve the use of hazardous materials, including chemical, radioactive, and biological materials. Our operations also produce hazardous waste. We cannot eliminate entirely the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. Federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of, and human exposure to, these materials. We may be sued for any injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials, and our liability may exceed our total assets. Although we believe that our activities conform in all material respects with environmental laws, there can be no assurance that violations of environmental, health and safety laws will not occur in the future as a result of human error, accident, equipment failure or other causes. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and the failure to comply with past, present, or future laws could result in the imposition of fines, third party property damage, product liability and personal injury claims, investigation and remediation costs, the suspension of production, or a cessation of operations, and our liability may exceed our total assets. Liability under environmental laws can be joint and several and without regard to comparative fault. Environmental laws could become more stringent over time imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, which could impair our research, development or production efforts and harm our business. We may be sued for product liability. The design, development, manufacture and sale of our products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims and the associated adverse publicity. For example, we may be named directly in product liability suits relating to drugs that are produced using our enzymes or that incorporate our intermediates and APIs. The biocatalysts, pharmaceutical intermediates and APIs that we produce or are produced for us by our manufacturing partners could be subject to quality control or contamination issues of which we are not aware. 46 Table of Contents Claims could be brought by various parties, including customers who are purchasing products directly from us, other companies who purchase products from our customers or by the end users of the drugs. We could also be named as co-parties in product liability suits that are brought against our contract manufacturers who manufacture our enzymes, pharmaceutical intermediates and APIs, such as Lactosan and/or Arch. Insurance coverage is expensive and may be difficult to obtain, and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. We cannot assure you that our contract manufacturer has adequate insurance coverage to cover against potential claims. In addition, although we currently maintain product liability insurance for our products in amounts we believe to be commercially reasonable, if the coverage limits of these insurance policies are not adequate, a claim brought against us, whether covered by insurance or not, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. This insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential losses, and if claims or losses exceed our liability insurance coverage, we may go out of business. Moreover, we have agreed to indemnify some of our customers for certain claims that may arise out of the use of our products, which could expose us to significant liabilities. If governmental incentives or other actions targeted at limiting carbon emissions are not adopted, a broad market for carbon management solutions may not develop. Our strategy with respect to carbon management, although still in the research phase, would likely require an expansion of the market for the management of carbon dioxide emissions prior to us being able to recognize significant revenues from our research and continuing expenditures of resources. The development of a significant market will likely depend on the adoption of government subsidies or other government regulation requiring companies to limit their carbon emissions. In the United States, for example, there is no current market for carbon management. The establishment of a carbon management market in the United States could take years to develop, if ever. The United States Senate, for example, failed to pass carbon regulating legislation in 2011. In the absence of such additional government subsidies or regulation in major markets, this carbon management market may not develop and we would not be able to generate significant revenues from our carbon management operations. Even if a carbon management market is established, we will not be able to commercialize our potential carbon management solutions if the price of carbon is below the cost to deploy our solutions. In addition, the development of transportation and storage infrastructure for carbon dioxide will be necessary to deploy our carbon capture technology in certain markets. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, to offset future taxable income. If the Internal Revenue Service challenges our analysis that our existing NOLs are not subject to limitations arising from previous ownership changes, our ability to utilize NOLs could be limited by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Future changes in our stock ownership, some of which are outside of our control, could result in an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Furthermore, our ability to utilize NOLs of companies that we may acquire in the future may be subject to limitations. For these reasons, we may not be able to utilize a material portion of the NOLs reflected on our balance sheet, even if we attain profitability. Risks Related to Owning our Common Stock We are subject to anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware law that could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us. Among other things, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide 47 Table of Contents for a board of directors which is divided into three classes, with staggered three-year terms and provide that all stockholder action must be effected at a duly called meeting of the stockholders and not by a consent in writing, and further provide that only our board of directors, the chairman of the board of directors, our chief executive officer or president may call a special meeting of the stockholders. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation allows our board of directors, without further action by our stockholders, to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof. These provisions may also frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, who are responsible for appointing the members of our management team. Furthermore, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits, with some exceptions, stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. Finally, our charter documents establish advanced notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. Although we believe these provisions together provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if an offer to acquire our company may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. Concentration of ownership among our existing officers, directors and principal stockholders may prevent other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and depress our stock price. Based on the number of shares outstanding as of December 31, 2011, our officers, directors and stockholders who hold at least 5% of our stock together beneficially own approximately 34% of our outstanding common stock. If these officers, directors, and principal stockholders or a group of our principal stockholders act together, they will be able to exert a significant degree of influence over our management and affairs and control matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of this concentration of ownership may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders. For instance, officers, directors, and principal stockholders, acting together, could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements that we would not otherwise consider. Similarly, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company otherwise favored by our other stockholders. As of December 31, 2011, Raízen, Biomedical Sciences Investment Fund Pte Ltd. and CMEA Ventures beneficially owned approximately 15.5%, 9.4% and 8.8% of our common stock, respectively. Our share price may be volatile which may cause the value of our common stock to decline and subject us to securities class action litigation. The market price of shares of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to many risk factors listed in this section, and others beyond our control, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition and operating results; • the position of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities; • actual or anticipated changes in our growth rate relative to our competitors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our competitors’ operating results or changes in their growth rate; • announcements of technological innovations by us, our collaborators or our competitors; • announcements by us, our collaborators or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • any changes in Shell’s biofuels strategy or timelines, or in our relationship with Shell, including any decision by Shell to terminate our collaboration or reduce the number of FTEs funded by Shell under our collaborative research agreement; 48 Table of Contents • Shell’s failure to extend our collaborative research agreement, which expires in November 2012; • any announcements or developments from Raízen; • additions or losses of one or more significant pharmaceutical products; • announcements or developments regarding pharmaceutical products manufactured using our biocatalysts, intermediates and APIs; • the entry into, modification or termination of collaborative arrangements; • additions or losses of customers; • additions or departures of key management or scientific personnel; • failure to find a permanent Chief Executive Officer and a permanent Chief Financial Officer; • competition from existing products or new products that may emerge; • issuance of new or updated research reports by securities or industry analysts; • fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us; • disputes or other developments related to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies; • changes in existing laws, regulations and policies applicable to our business and products, including the National Renewable Fuel Standard program; • announcement or expectation of additional financing efforts; • sales of our common stock by us, our insiders or our other stockholders; • share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares; • general market conditions in our industry; and • general economic and market conditions, including the recent financial crisis. Furthermore, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively impact the market price of shares of our common stock. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or publish negative reports about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or change their opinion of our stock in a negative manner, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. 49 Table of Contents We incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to compliance initiatives. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as well as related rules implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and The NASDAQ Stock Market, impose various requirements on public companies that require our management and other personnel to devote a substantial amount of time to compliance initiatives. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our compliance with Section 404 requires that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management time on compliance-related issues. Moreover, if we are not able to maintain compliance with the requirements of Section 404, our stock price could decline, and we could face sanctions, delisting or investigations by The NASDAQ Global Market, or other material adverse effects on our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 