risk factors set forth under Item 1A - Risk Factors below. You can identify forward-looking statements generally by the use of forward-looking terminology such as ‘‘believes,’’ ‘‘expects,’’ ‘‘may,’’ ‘‘will,’’ ‘‘intends,’’ ‘‘plans,’’ ‘‘should,’’ ‘‘could,’’ ‘‘seeks,’’ ‘‘pro forma,’’ ‘‘anticipates,’’ ‘‘estimates,’’ ‘‘continues,’’ or other variations thereof, including their use in the negative, or by discussions of strategies, opportunities, plans or intentions. These forward-looking statements necessarily depend upon assumptions and estimates that may prove to be incorrect. Although we believe that the assumptions and estimates reflected in the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are reasonable, we cannot guarantee that we will achieve our plans, intentions or expectations. The forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ in significant ways from any future results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Item 1. Business Recent Developments On December 20, 2006, Protection One, Inc. (“Protection One”), Integrated Alarm Services Group, Inc. (“IASG”) and Tara Acquisition Corp., a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of Protection One (“Tara”), entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) pursuant to which Protection One will acquire IASG (the “Merger”). If IASG’s Board of Directors withdraws or modifies the Merger Agreement in a manner adverse to Protection One or its recommendation of the merger, the Company may be subject to a $7.5 million payment to Protection One consisting of a termination fee and reimbursement of expenses. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement, which has been unanimously approved by the boards of directors of Protection One and IASG, upon the completion of the Merger, each share of IASG common stock will be converted into 0.29 shares of Protection One common stock, with cash to be paid in lieu of fractional shares. On March 27, 2007, the Shareholders of IASG will vote on adoption of the Merger Agreement. If approved by the Shareholders, the merger is scheduled to be consummated on April 2, 2007. Overview We are one of the largest providers of monitoring, financing, and business support services to independent security alarm Dealers, which we refer to as “Dealers”, in the United States. We offer our services to Dealers competing in both the residential and commercial security alarm markets. We believe our services better allow Dealers to compete with larger, self-monitoring national alarm companies. The major categories of services we provide include: · Monitoring: We monitor alarm systems on behalf of Dealers who do not have the capital resources or critical mass to economically establish their own monitoring facilities and for our own accounts. We believe we are the largest wholesale alarm monitoring company in the United States, monitoring approximately 620,000 alarm systems on behalf of approximately 4,000 independent Dealers. We refer to this as our wholesale business and we currently receive approximately $2.6 million of revenue per month to monitor contracts owned by Dealers. Our alarm monitoring services are provided through two redundant alarm monitoring centers located in New Jersey and California. The acquisition of Financial Security Services, Inc. (“FSS”) in 2005 provided us with approximately 95,000 new monitored alarm systems as of December 31, 2006 and approximately 147 new Dealer relationships (these are included in the above totals) as well as an alarm monitoring center in Minnesota. · Financing: Since 1993, we have provided financing for Dealers in the form of loans or alarm monitoring contract purchases of approximately $520 million. As of December 31, 2006, we owned and monitored a portfolio of approximately 145,000 retail alarm monitoring contract equivalents. A contract equivalent is equal to $30 per month in Recurring Monthly Revenue (“RMR”) from a typical residential customer. We refer to this as our retail business and we currently receive approximately $4.3 million of revenue per month from this portfolio. In addition, we hold approximately 27,000 contracts as collateral against loans we have made to Dealers, 20,000 of which are from our FSS portfolio acquired in 2005. TOC 3 · Business Support Services: For some of our Dealers, we provide billing, collection and marketing services as well as access to equipment discount programs. Because of our scale, we can generally provide these services on a more cost-effective basis for Dealers than they can for themselves. In addition, our equipment discount program allows Dealers who use our monitoring services to automatically receive preferential pricing for certain alarm equipment. Our retail portfolio is comprised of both commercial and residential subscribers, which represent approximately 77% of our revenue in this portfolio, and commercial subscribers, which represent approximately 23% of our revenue in this portfolio. We acquire alarm monitoring contracts on both a “flow business” and “bulk purchase” basis. Flow business is the purchase of newly created alarm monitoring contracts on a recurring, or “as originated,” basis from Dealers. We currently have relationships with over 75 Dealers from which we acquire alarm monitoring contracts on a flow basis. Bulk purchases are the acquisition of existing portfolios of alarm monitoring contracts with demonstrated payment histories. These alarm monitoring contracts are typically purchased from Dealers on a non-recurring basis. We also acquire monitoring contracts and Dealer relationships by acquiring monitoring call centers. We believe our package of services allows Dealers to compete against the large self-monitoring national providers in the security alarm market by giving them access to technical sophistication, financing, back office and other services that they would not otherwise have, while allowing them to remain the local and visible contact with their customer, the end-user of the security alarm system. We intend to continue to expand the number of Dealers to which we provide these services through direct marketing of our services as well as acquisitions of Dealer relationships. See financial statement footnote 17 for segment information. Our Business Strategy Growth Initiatives Acquisition of Additional Alarm Monitoring Contracts We intend to expand our acquisition and financing of alarm monitoring contracts through purchasing retail alarm monitoring contracts on both a flow business and bulk purchase basis and by expanding our internal sales organization. Since our initial public offering in July 2003, we have acquired approximately 167,000 retail alarm monitoring contract equivalents at an average purchase multiple of 28 times the RMR. The sources of contracts available for acquisition include (i) our existing Dealer network, (ii) purchases from independent brokers representing pools of seasoned contracts and (iii) opportunistic purchases in the normal course of business. Building Additional Wholesale Monitoring Relationships with Dealers We intend to grow our wholesale business both internally and by acquiring Dealer relationships. Our internal growth is driven by the quality of service that we provide to our Dealers and their end-users. Our state-of-the-art redundant monitoring centers are important factors that enable us to attract additional Dealers. We believe that the fact that we do not compete, in most markets, with Dealers in the sale or installation of security alarm systems provides us a competitive advantage over many of our competitors that do compete with independent Dealers. We also intend to purchase Dealer relationships from monitoring companies. Cross-Selling Opportunities We have initiated a comprehensive cross-selling program of our primary services to Dealers. For those Dealers to whom we provide wholesale monitoring services, we will encourage them to use us as the purchaser when they wish to sell alarm monitoring contracts, or as a financing source should they wish to borrow funds against the value of their alarm monitoring contracts. We also have a program to offer additional services to the Dealers’ end-users, such as two-way voice communication, extended warranty coverage, personal emergency response service and GPS tracking services for movable assets. Maximize Subscriber Retention We seek to maximize subscriber retention by continuing to acquire high quality retail alarm monitoring contracts with demonstrated payment histories (for bulk purchases) and to increase the average life of an alarm monitoring contract by providing superior customer service and actively identifying subscribers who are relocating, the number one reason for account cancellations, and target retention of such subscribers, we also target the new residents moving into the relocating subscriber’s residence. Maximize Economies of Scale Our existing infrastructure will allow us to add a substantial number of additional alarm monitoring contracts with minimal additional costs. As we continue to grow our subscriber base, we believe our margins will increase as some of these costs are spread over larger recurring revenue streams. We believe our cash flows will also benefit from our continued efforts to reduce subscriber attrition. In addition, we believe that the consolidation of our various operating systems into one company wide product, as well as other actions we plan to take, will allow us to realize substantial cost savings. TOC 4 Our Industry Overview The security alarm industry is characterized by a large number of privately owned companies involved in security alarm sales, leasing, installation, repair and monitoring. Based on information from BarnesAssociates, approximately 45% of this market is served by companies not included in the 100 largest companies. The top 100 companies include large self-monitoring national providers such as ADT, Brinks and Protection One. Our target market is the portion of the market served by the Dealers outside of the top 100, or approximately 45% of the overall alarm monitoring market. The growth in the security alarm industry has been fueled by several factors. We believe the aging of the population and the increase in two-career families have both contributed to an increased focus on the security of the home. Many insurance companies offer discounts to home and business owners who install electronic security alarm systems. In fact, many commercial enterprises are required by insurance underwriters to have monitored alarm systems. Additionally, we believe that many new homes have pre-installed security alarm systems. We also anticipate that historic growth rates in penetration will increase as technology continues to lower the cost of security alarm systems and monitoring and increases the potential applications of monitoring centers. The performance of the security alarm industry has been impacted by numerous factors including the significant amount of consolidation that occurred in the mid-to-late nineties, self-monitoring national providers such as ADT and Protection One, private regional providers, as well as new entrants into the market which acquired a large number of independent Dealers (with and without monitoring call centers) and wholesale monitoring stations. During this period of consolidation, purchase multiples of RMR ranged from approximately 35x to 68x. This growth was largely financed with debt. Most of these acquirers experienced service disruptions in connection with the integration of these newly-acquired customer accounts, which resulted in a significant loss of customers, or “attrition,” as is referred to in the industry. Further, many acquirers were facing and continue to face financial pressures to service the debt used to effect these acquisitions. We believe that we will be able to complete acquisitions at purchase multiples of RMR lower than those which existed industry-wide in the mid-to-late nineties. Further, we expect that such acquisitions will be completed without compromising our account underwriting and due diligence criteria. Dealer Operations The primary sources of revenue for Dealers are the sale and installation of security alarm systems and the monthly subscription of the monitoring service. Typically, upon installation, the end-user enters into an annual alarm monitoring contract. Under an alarm monitoring contract, the Dealer agrees to monitor, or contract with another company to monitor, the security alarm from a remote location and to take certain pre-determined actions, such as calling the police, an ambulance service or fire department, when a security system is triggered and an alarm signal is received. After its initial term, most alarm monitoring contracts are subject to automatic renewal on an annual basis unless the Dealer or end-user notifies the other party within a defined time period that the alarm monitoring contract will not be renewed. The average life of alarm monitoring contracts, including renewals, typically ranges from 8 to 12 years. Most Dealers do not have the capability to monitor alarms internally and outsource the monitoring and/or administrative aspects of the business to an outside wholesale alarm monitoring company. We believe that Dealers look for a partner, such as us, who offers a wide array of services, including state-of-the-art monitoring service, billing and collection capabilities and marketing support, all at a reasonable cost. Financing support is often just as important as monitoring support since many Dealers are constrained by the working capital requirements required to build their business. In many cases, the cost of the installed equipment to the end-user is at or below the Dealer’s cost. In these cases, much of the Dealer's capital and financial return comes from future monthly payments under the alarm monitoring contracts. As a result, Dealers often need or desire to monetize these alarm monitoring contracts and will, consequently, sell or borrow against their alarm monitoring contracts. Although there is a well-developed market for the purchase and sale of alarm monitoring contracts and several specialty finance companies have been willing to lend against alarm monitoring contracts held by Dealers, many Dealers have not had access to traditional credit lending markets. Several characteristics of the industry, including the lack of standardization among individual alarm monitoring contracts and the under-capitalization of most Dealers, make it difficult for traditional lenders to comfortably lend against the value of individual alarm monitoring contracts. Further, the ability to provide or control monitoring service is critical to maximizing the value of the alarm monitoring contract since service issues are the primary reasons why end-users do not renew alarm monitoring contracts. Traditional lenders and many specialty lenders do not have this capability. When acquiring alarm monitoring contracts from Dealers, purchasers typically pay a multiple of the RMR. According to BarnesAssociates, a financial services provider to the security alarm industry, the average RMR purchase multiple for portfolios with less than $50,000 in RMR was, 33.5x in 2004, 34.8x in 2005 and an estimated 36.1x in 2006. For example, assuming a monthly security alarm monitoring cost to the end-user of $30, the acquisition price of the alarm monitoring contract would be approximately $1,080 in 2006. TOC 5 Our Services Our two primary business activities are acquiring and managing portfolios of alarm monitoring contracts and monitoring security alarms. We also offer administrative services to our Dealers, such as billing and collection, as well as new and emerging products and services. Our acquisition and financing solutions provide capital to Dealers, allowing them to compete with larger competitors on the initial price of equipment and installation to the end-user. We also provide Dealers with access to technical sophistication and back office services that they may not otherwise have (or be able to profitably operate), while allowing them to maintain visible contact with their local customers, the end-users of the alarm. Our alarm monitoring contract acquisition, financing solutions and monitoring services complement one another and drive growth in other areas of our business. We generally require Dealers to whom we provide alarm monitoring contract financing to use our monitoring services for all of the alarm monitoring contracts they continue to own. We typically also require these Dealers to use our billing and collection services, enabling us to gain an additional level of control over the reliability of the alarm monitoring contracts’ cash flows. This places us in a unique position to minimize alarm monitoring contract attrition because we can control the quality of the monitoring, billing and collection and to a significant extent Dealer interaction with the end-user. Alarm Monitoring Contract Acquisition and Financing Services Generally, Dealers have had limited access to traditional credit providers. Several characteristics of the industry, including the lack of standardization among many individual alarm monitoring contracts, the under capitalization of Dealers and their inability to provide monitoring services directly has historically made lenders hesitant to provide financing to Dealers. When providing financing to Dealers, we obtain a security interest in the underlying alarm monitoring contracts. The payment terms are generally between 36 and 72 months, at interest rates based on prevailing overall interest rates and market conditions. We believe that we are uniquely positioned to maximize the value of alarm monitoring contracts through the depth of our knowledge of the security alarm industry and the integrated nature of the services we provide. We have the ability to exercise greater control over alarm monitoring contract attrition than most capital providers because we have direct influence over the quality of the monitoring, interaction with the end-user and billing and collection. Consequently, we are able to deploy more capital and achieve higher returns. With respect to purchased alarm monitoring contracts, we typically acquire them from the Dealers that originally sold and installed the security alarm systems giving rise to the alarm monitoring contracts. We structure the payment terms and pricing of both our alarm monitoring contract purchases and loans to provide us with a competitive internal rate of return. In a typical transaction, the Dealer will sell their alarm monitoring contracts for a purchase price that is a multiple of the RMR. The multiple paid in any actual transaction is impacted by several factors, including average RMR, the amount of the homeowner's investment in the alarm system, geographic diversity of the accounts and our own due diligence of the Dealer. Generally, Dealers that sell or borrow against their alarm monitoring contracts do so on either a flow basis or a bulk basis. We purchase alarm monitoring contracts on both a flow and a bulk basis. Typically, the price paid for a flow alarm monitoring contract is less than that paid in a bulk purchase because very often the bulk purchases are comprised of seasoned, performing alarm monitoring contracts. In either instance, we typically require Dealers to replace any cancelled alarm monitoring contracts and lost revenues for the first year after we purchase an alarm monitoring contract. Such replacement must be in cash or acceptable alarm monitoring contracts. We also hold back a portion of the payment to purchase the contracts to secure this Dealer obligation. Since alarm monitoring contract quality is a key driver of our profitability, underwriting discipline is critical. We maintain a very strict underwriting discipline. For example, we do not typically purchase alarm monitoring contracts that were generated by Dealers offering “zero-down” on equipment purchases and installation, unless the contracts have been outstanding for a minimum of 12 months and exhibit acceptable payment patterns as well as acceptable responses to quality control calls, since the lack of such costs does not create an investment stake in the service by the end-user. Further, end-users attracted to “zero-down” promotions are often of lower credit standing and therefore, may be more likely to default. Credit quality of the end-user is also a key consideration when purchasing alarm monitoring contracts on a flow basis. We require credit rating scores on all alarm monitoring contracts that we acquire on a flow basis. We typically reject those alarm monitoring contracts with Beacon Scores (a credit rating employing a methodology developed by Fair, Isaac and Co., primarily used by Equifax in the U.S. and Canada) of less than 625 and typically accept alarm monitoring contracts with a Beacon Score of 640 or more (provided they satisfy all of our other due diligence criteria). Alarm monitoring contracts with a Beacon Score between 625 and 640 are further scrutinized through an additional review of the end-user’s credit status. We do not conduct a credit review of the end-user for bulk purchases because of the seasoned performance characteristics of such alarm monitoring contracts, such as the customer payment history. TOC 6 Our due diligence process begins with an examination of the Dealer in much the same way as a bank reviews a mortgage applicant. We perform judgment and lien searches, review tax filings (corporate and personal), and obtain credit scores, certificates of good standing and proof of licensure from the state(s) in which the Dealer does business. In addition, we pre-approve each Dealer's standard end-user alarm monitoring contract and with respect to flow purchases obtain a credit rating for each end-user. We also generally require that the selling Dealers carry errors and omissions insurance with at least $1 million of coverage and provide us with a personal guarantee of the dealer recourse obligation. When we purchase on a flow basis, we also generally contact the end-user to ensure that they understand the alarm monitoring contract and know how to use the alarm system. When purchasing alarm monitoring contracts on a bulk basis, we contact a significant random sample to ensure the customers exist. In all cases, we verify that the alarm system generates a live signal to our monitoring call centers. We include certain additional safeguards in our purchase and loan agreements. We generally bill end-users directly and require that the receipts be deposited into a lock-box account for our benefit. The contents of the lock-box are remitted daily to an accumulation account. The Dealers have no right in, or any right to withdraw any amounts held in the accumulation account. For loans, we also take physical possession of the original alarm monitoring contracts and file financing statements to perfect our security interest. While some of our monitoring competitors also claim to offer alarm monitoring contract acquisition and financing alternatives to Dealers, many act merely as an intermediary. In contrast, we operate as a principal and either lend directly to the Dealers or acquire alarm monitoring contracts for our own portfolio. We are not aware of any other monitoring competitor in the industry that acts as a principal for loans to Dealers. In addition to the alarm monitoring contract acquisition and finance process described above, we generally require that Dealers use us to monitor all of their alarm monitoring contracts, not just those that have been acquired or financed. This monitoring requirement enables us to ensure the quality of the monitoring services. Monitoring Services We provide monitoring to Dealers on alarm monitoring contracts that they have entered into with an end-user. Dealers typically pay us a fixed monthly monitoring fee for each account that we monitor on their behalf. The cost of the monthly monitoring fee is either based on a published list price or is negotiated between us and the Dealer. The charges are billed to the Dealer on a monthly, quarterly, semi-annual or annual basis in accordance with the contract agreement. The collection of payments by the Dealer from their end users have no effect on the prices charged or collected by us from the Dealer. We currently monitor approximately 765,000 end-user accounts. Generally, when an alarm is activated, a signal is sent from the alarm system through a phone line, radio transmitter or wireless service to a receiver located at one of our two monitoring facilities. This signal is immediately routed through our automated system and an operator personally handles each call. When the operator receives the alarm condition, his or her computer will simultaneously display a series of instructions on how to handle the alarm. These instructions are prepared by the Dealer and the end-user in advance and are customized to the particular logistics of the geographic area as well as the individual needs of the end-user. In many instances, the operator will call a phone number specified by the end-user and ask for a code word. If the operator is unable to contact the end-user or an incorrect code word is given, the operator will dispatch the appropriate authority to the scene of the alarm. In the instance of a fire alarm, the operator is typically instructed to dispatch emergency vehicles without making an attempt to contact the end-user. In any event, after dispatching the appropriate authority, the operator will then call any other individuals specified in the end-user's instructions and will provide notice to the Dealer servicing the end-user of the event. The Dealer can then provide follow-up support with the local end-user. In a typical week, our operators respond to approximately 68,000 priority alarm activations. We have consistently met a response time for priority events, measured by us as the time between when an alarm signal arrives in our alarm monitoring centers and our first response to that alarm, of 19 seconds on average, which we believe is among the best response times in the industry. We own and operate two redundant alarm monitoring centers, which operate with state-of-the-art equipment and a highly trained staff. Our alarm monitoring centers are located in Manasquan, New Jersey and Irvine, California, and are linked via advanced software that creates a real-time queuing process. Having two facilities located strategically in different time zones allows us to efficiently allocate alarm responses based on time-of-day or specific event drivers that may cause one area of the country to have a higher volume of alarms than others. As a result, alarm signals, which would otherwise wait for available operators during peak periods, are routed to our other alarm monitoring centers where they are more quickly processed. For instance, a large number of alarms at our New Jersey facility resulting from bad weather in the Northeast would result in the transfer of a portion of these calls to our California facility. In addition, we also own and operate a monitoring center in St. Paul, Minnesota which we acquired as part of the FSS acquisition. The St. Paul facility operates on a different software platform than our other two alarm monitoring centers and is therefore unable to load share with those facilities. TOC 7 All of our alarm monitoring centers are Underwriters Laboratories (R) (“UL”) listed. To obtain and maintain a UL listing, a monitoring call center must be located in a building meeting UL's structural requirements, have back-up and uninterruptible power supply, have secure and redundant telephone lines and redundant computer systems that meet UL criteria. Access to the facility must also be strictly controlled. Alarm monitoring offerings vary widely with the specific needs of the end-user and encompass many types of monitored alarms including burglary, hold-up, panic, fire, two-way voice communication, industrial process control, medical emergency and environmental alert. We monitor all of these types of alarms from our existing monitoring call centers. Our alarm monitoring centers are also capable of supporting a full range of add-on services such as remote video monitoring, network intrusion detection, cellular transmission, private radio access, personal emergency response systems and Global Positioning System (“GPS”) monitoring and emergency dispatch services using GPS technology. Historically, our wholesale alarm monitoring services business has grown by adding new Dealer relationships generated by both direct marketing and sales activities and by cross-selling to those Dealers to whom we have provided financing. Additionally, over the last four years we have acquired five wholesale alarm monitoring companies and we expect to acquire additional alarm monitoring centers in the future, subject to the availability of suitable acquisition opportunities. We continually monitor the efficiency of each of our alarm monitoring centers. In recent years we have consolidated eight alarm monitoring centers into two alarm monitoring centers, taking advantage of new technologies that enable us to monitor large geographic areas very effectively from a single location. This consolidation has allowed us to increase efficiency and productivity, and decrease duplicative expenses. However, we intend to always maintain at least one fully redundant facility. During 2005, a third alarm monitoring center was added as a result of the FSS acquisition. Other Products and Services Billing and Collection We create paper invoices and mail them to end-users serviced by our Dealers. We also utilize electronic and credit card payment options for our customer’s convenience. Additionally, we may provide collection services for accounts receivable. We generally charge on a per account basis. In instances where we provide the billing and collection function in addition to alarm monitoring contract acquisition and financing, we gain an additional level of assurance that timely payments will be made on the alarm monitoring contracts that we have purchased or lent against. It also enables us to minimize billing errors, which are also a cause of alarm monitoring contract attrition. By offering billing and collection services to our Dealers, we enable Dealers to focus their efforts on sales and installation, rather than administration of alarm monitoring contracts. Equipment Sales without Monitoring We sell equipment, such as motion detectors, sensors, cameras and closed circuit televisions without monitoring to certain commercial customers. Commercial and Residential Bundled Arrangements We sell bundled arrangements to our commercial and residential customers which consist of equipment, installation services and ongoing monitoring services generally under three to five year contracted terms. These bundled arrangements generally require an upfront payment and recurring monthly revenue (RMR) payments over the term of the contract. Amounts assigned to each component are based on the component’s objectively determined fair value. If fair value can not be determined for a sale involving multiple elements, upfront non-refundable deposits are deferred and recognized over the expected life of the customer relationship. The RMR is recognized monthly over the term of the contract. Equipment Discount Program We provide our Dealers with access to discounts on equipment. For example, we have entered into a relationship with Honeywell, which is the largest security alarm equipment manufacturer and provider in the world. Our understanding with Honeywell is that any Dealer who uses our monitoring services will automatically receive preferential pricing for all equipment purchased from Honeywell. This program can represent significant savings to our Dealers. To be eligible for this program, we require that the Dealer (i) be an existing customer of ours, (ii) connect all of their new end-users to our alarm monitoring center and (iii) maintain a current standing with regard to their monitoring charges. We are currently in discussions with other major manufacturers of alarm equipment to institute a similar type of discount program for their equipment. This will give our Dealers a choice of using different types and brands of equipment while enjoying similar reduced pricing plans. Sales and Marketing Our sales and marketing activities are conducted through a network of 74 in-house professionals. Sales activities are separated between retail and wholesale customers. Wholesale customer sales activities are structured under three product areas: wholesale monitoring, finance and acquisitions. The Company employs a salaried and commissioned sales force that is geographically distributed throughout the United States, which is responsible for identifying opportunities. The Company also employs product specialists, which assist the sales force. There are 8 professionals in our wholesale sales force. Our retail segment has 63 employees involved in sales activities related to servicing commercial and residential customers. TOC 8 Our marketing department is comprised of 3 professionals and is responsible for the production and distribution of print advertising materials and direct mail marketing pieces. The team also issues corporate communications to employees, customers, strategic partners and other interested parties through regular press releases and announcements of new products and services. The group is also responsible for business development activities including the identification and procurement of new products and services that Dealers can sell to their customers. We believe that this multi-faceted approach to sales and marketing activities is an important ingredient to the successful ongoing growth in all our business areas. Acquisition Process Since 2003, we have acquired four businesses. Through these acquisitions, we have not only significantly increased our number of contracts owned and dealer loan portfolios, but have increased our installation and servicing of commercial and residential monitoring systems. Our alarm monitoring flow business includes the purchase of newly created alarm monitoring contracts on a recurring, or as originated, basis from our Dealers. We have engaged in flow business with over 75 Dealers over time, and are actively seeking to increase the number of Dealers with whom we conduct flow business. Bulk purchases occur when we buy existing portfolios of alarm monitoring contracts with demonstrated payment histories of at least six months. Bulk purchases typically range in size from 1,000 to 5,000 alarm monitoring contracts. These alarm monitoring contracts are typically purchased from Dealers on a non-recurring basis. The bulk purchases are less predictable in terms of the timing of account acquisitions, but are generally more predictable in terms of performance than flow business because the actual historical performance of individual alarm monitoring contracts is known. Many of the bulk purchases made by us are made from Dealers who are existing monitoring customers. In a typical alarm monitoring contract acquisition, we retain the selling Dealer to service the underlying alarm system, which helps us maintain strong relationships with the Dealers and encourages the Dealer to sell additional alarm monitoring contracts to us as new installations are completed. The impact of the acquired contracts on revenue and profitability will be affected by the attrition rates of acquired portfolios, as well as the variable expenses relating to such acquisitions including billing, collection and servicing. Employees As of December 31, 2006, we had a workforce of 682 employees. Of our total workforce, 255 are engaged in finance, administration and management, 219 are engaged in the monitoring business, 74 are engaged in sales and marketing, and 134 are engaged in service and installation of monitoring systems. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement, nor have we experienced work stoppages. We believe that our relations with our employees are good. Competition The security alarm industry is highly competitive and fragmented. While we generally do not compete directly with many of the large companies in the industry such as ADT, Brinks, Protection One and Honeywell because we do not primarily sell and install security systems, we are nonetheless impacted by the competitive challenge these companies present to Dealers. While all of these companies provide monitoring services, some of these companies, may from time to time, purchase portfolios of monitoring contracts. We compete with several companies that have alarm monitoring contract acquisition and loan programs for Dealers and some of these competitors may be better capitalized than us. There is also the potential for other entities such as banks or finance companies to gain a better understanding of the industry and become more active as a source of competition for alarm monitoring contract acquisition and financing portions of our business. Further, we compete with participants that primarily provide alarm monitoring contract acquisition and financing services. History We were formed as King Central in 1985 in the State of New Jersey. In 1986, Thomas Few, Sr. our former Vice Chairman and President joined King Central as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer and acquired 20% of King Central's capital stock. In January 1998, as part of a reorganization of King Central, Mr. Few, Sr.'s ownership was increased to 80% and the remaining 20% was acquired by Timothy M. McGinn, our former Chief Executive Officer, and David L. Smith, a former Director. At that time, we changed our name to KC Acquisition. TOC 9 In September 2002, KC Acquisition acquired all of the capital stock of Criticom International Corporation (“Criticom”) in exchange for $1.0 million and 155,911 shares of our common stock. An additional 68,182 shares of our common stock have been issued to the sellers based upon Criticom's financial performance in 2003. Criticom provides wholesale alarm monitoring services to Dealers. In addition, it provides Global Positioning System monitoring and asset tracking services to various customers. KC Acquisition adopted the name Criticom International as its trade name for our monitoring services business during 2003. M&S Partners, a New York general partnership equally owned by Mr. McGinn and Mr. Smith began to acquire portfolios of alarm monitoring contracts from Dealers in 1992. Each contract was ultimately placed by M&S Partners with one of 41 leveraged trusts of which Mr. McGinn, Mr. Few, Sr. and Mr. Smith were the beneficiaries. M&S Partners also acquired alarm monitoring contracts through three limited liability companies (Guardian Group, LLC, Palisades Group, LLC and Payne Security Group, LLC) which were owned by TJF Enterprises, LLC, which is owned by Mr. Few, Sr., and First Integrated Capital Corporation, which is majority owned by Mr. McGinn and Mr. Smith. They bundled those alarm monitoring contracts and sold them as Trust Certificates collateralized by the underlying alarm monitoring contracts and their recurring monthly revenue. We do not expect to engage in securitizing alarm monitoring contracts in the future. Between March and November 2002, IASI, a company that was controlled by Mr. McGinn, Mr. Smith and Mr. Few, Sr., offered the holders of the trust certificates the right to exchange such certificates for promissory notes of IASI. Upon completion of the exchanges, all but eleven of the trusts were liquidated and their assets were transferred to IASI. The trust certificates of the remaining trusts were repaid with the proceeds of the offering and the assets of the trusts were transferred to us. In January 2003, IASI entered into a merger with a wholly owned subsidiary of ours and became our wholly owned subsidiary. In connection with the acquisition of IASI, we issued an aggregate of 772,192 shares of our common stock. Palisades Group, LLC was the owner of approximately 38% of the alarm monitoring contracts underlying the trusts. In January 2003, Palisades exchanged all of its ownership interests for our stock and distributed such stock to its members, TJF Enterprises, LLC and First Integrated Capital Corporation. In connection with the acquisition of Palisades, we issued an aggregate of 25,000 shares of our common stock. This acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. In January 2003, Payne Security Group, LLC and Guardian Group, LLC were acquired by us and became our wholly owned subsidiaries. In connection with the acquisition of Payne Security Group, LLC, we issued an aggregate of 50,250 shares to TJF Enterprises, LLC, and First Integrated Capital Corporation. In connection with the acquisition of Guardian Group, LLC, we issued an aggregate of 16,750 shares to TJF Enterprises, LLC, and First Integrated Capital Corporation. Morlyn Financial Group, LLC was founded in May 2000 to assist Dealers who were interested in selling their alarm monitoring contracts to IASI. Morlyn originates alarm monitoring contracts for acquisition and provides due diligence, billing and other related services. In connection with the acquisition of Morlyn, in January 2003, we issued an aggregate of 17,000 shares of our common stock to Messrs. McGinn, Few Sr., and Smith. In June 1999, KC Acquisition acquired all of the assets and assumed certain liabilities of Criticom CA, Inc., a monitoring call center in Santa Fe Springs, California, in exchange for approximately $3.2 million. In May 2000, KC Acquisition acquired 99.2% of the capital stock of Monital Signal Corporation in exchange for approximately $10.7 million. Monital, located in Manasquan, New Jersey, was KC Acquisition's largest competitor in the Northeast, United States. In October 2001, KC Acquisition acquired Custom Design Security, an independent wholesale alarm monitoring company which services the Western and Central Regions of Florida, in exchange for approximately $1.2 million. In January 2002, KC Acquisition acquired certain assets of RTC Alarm Monitoring Services, an alarm monitoring call center in California, in exchange for $5.1 million. In January 2003, we effected a migratory merger into KC Alarm Services Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation. The sole purpose of the migratory merger was to change our jurisdiction of incorporation from New Jersey to Delaware. Subsequent to the migratory merger, we assumed all of the assets and liabilities of Integrated Alarm Services Group, Inc., a pre-existing, Delaware company whose only activity was the sale of $5.5 million of convertible debentures. The pre-existing Integrated Alarm Services Group, Inc. was then dissolved and we changed our name to Integrated Alarm Services Group, Inc. See heading “Acquisitions” in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for entities acquired since our initial public offering of common stock. Risk Management We carry insurance of various types, including general liability and errors and omissions insurance. Our errors and omissions coverage is $10 million per occurrence. Our loss experience and the loss experience of other companies in the security industry may affect the cost and availability of such insurance. Since 1998 we have had no significant uninsured losses. Certain of our insurance policies and the laws of some states may limit or prohibit insurance coverage for punitive or other types of damages, or liability arising from gross negligence or wanton behavior. See “Risk Factors—In the event that adequate insurance is not available or our insurance is not deemed to cover a claim we could face liability.” TOC 10 The nature of the services we provide potentially exposes us to greater risks of liability for employee acts or omissions or systems failure than may be inherent in other businesses. Our agreements with Dealers and end-users contain provisions limiting our liability to end-users and Dealers in an attempt to reduce this risk. However, in the event of litigation with respect to such matters, there can be no assurance that these limitations will continue to be enforced. In addition, the costs of such litigation could have an adverse effect on us. Regulatory Matters A number of local governmental authorities have adopted or are considering various measures aimed at reducing the number of false alarms. Such measures include: (i) subjecting alarm monitoring companies to fines or penalties for transmitting false alarms, (ii) licensing individual alarm systems and the revocation of such licenses following a specified number of false alarms, (iii) imposing fines on end-users for false alarms, (iv) imposing limitations on the number of times the police will respond to alarms at a particular location after a specified number of false alarms and (v) requiring further verification of an alarm signal before the police will respond. Our operations are subject to a variety of other laws, regulations and licensing requirements of federal, state and local authorities. In certain jurisdictions, we are required to obtain licenses or permits to comply with standards governing employee selection and training and to meet certain standards in the conduct of our business. Many jurisdictions also require certain of our employees to obtain licenses or permits. The alarm industry is also subject to requirements imposed by various insurance, approval, listing and standards organizations. Depending upon the type of end-user served, the type of service provided and the requirements of the relevant local governmental jurisdiction, adherence to the requirements and standards of such organizations is mandatory in some instances and voluntary in others. Our alarm monitoring business utilizes radio frequencies to transmit alarm signals. The Federal Communications Commission and state public utilities commissions regulate the operation and utilization of radio frequencies. The Company’s current reports on Form 8-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and annual reports on Form 10-K are electronically filed with the Securities and Exchanged Commission (“SEC”), and all such reports and amendments to such reports have been and will be made available, free of charge, through the Company’s website (www.iasg.us) as soon as reasonably practicable after such filing. The public may read and copy any material filed by the Company with the SEC at the SEC‘s Public Reference Room at100 F Street, N. E., Washington, D.C. The public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Consummation of IASG’s merger with Protection One is subject to the satisfaction of various closing conditions; IASG’s inability to consummate the merger could have a material adverse effect on IASG’s results of operations and financial condition. Consummation of the proposed merger with Protection One is subject to the satisfaction of various closing conditions, including the following: · the merger agreement shall have been approved by a majority of the outstanding shares of IASG common stock; · the shares of Protection One common stock issuable to IASG stockholders as part of the merger and issuable upon exercise of outstanding IASG stock options converted into Protection One stock options shall have been approved for listing on a NASDAQ stock market, subject to official notice of issuance; · certain holders of IASG’s 12% Senior Secured Notes due 2011 shall have exchanged their notes for new notes issued by a subsidiary of Protection One; · Protection One shall have obtained an amendment to its existing credit facility; and · other customary closing conditions described in the merger agreement, including the receipt of tax opinions, accuracy of representations and warranties and the performance of obligations under the merger agreement. IASG cannot guarantee that these closing conditions will be satisfied or that the proposed merger will be successfully completed. In the event that the proposed merger is not completed: · IASG’s board of directors will need to determine whether to seek an alternative transaction or whether to remain an independent business ; · If IASG’s board of directors seeks an alternative transaction, there can be no assurance whether any such transaction can be entered into or consummated or what the terms of such a transactions would be; TOC 11 · If IASG’s board of directors determines that IASG should remain an independent company, IASG’s management will need to revise its business plan and there can be no assurance that such business plan can be successfully implemented; · IASG’s relationships with customers, suppliers and employees may be adversely affected as a result of uncertainties with regard to its business and prospects; · IASG may be required to pay significant transaction costs related to the proposed Merger, such as a transaction termination (break-up) fee and/or reimbursement expenses as follows: · A cash amount equal to $7.5 million, consisting of both a termination fee and reimbursement of expenses, will be paid by IASG to Protection One if prior to the adoption of the merger agreement by IASG stockholders, the IASG board of directors has withdrawn or modified in a manner adverse to Protection One its recommendation of the merger; recommended to the stockholders of IASG, or caused IASG to enter into any definitive agreement providing for the implementation of, another acquisition proposal; materially breached its obligations regarding the delivery of a proxy statement/prospectus or the calling and holding of the special meeting to vote on adoption of the merger agreement; or materially breached its obligations regarding non-solicitation. · Reasonable out-of-pocket fees and expenses up to $2 million actually incurred by Protection One in connection with the merger agreement and related agreements, and the transactions contemplated in those agreements, including fees and expenses of counsel, investment bankers, accountants, experts, consultants and other representatives of Protection One will be paid by IASG to Protection One if Protection One is not in breach in any material respect of its obligations under the merger agreement, and IASG has breached or failed to perform any of its representations, warranties, covenants or agreements in the merger agreement which breach or failure to perform (a) would give rise to the failure of a condition regarding representations and warranties and performance of obligations and (b) such breach has not been cured by IASG within 30 days after written notice to IASG. Any such events could have a material negative impact on IASG’s results of operations and financial condition. Significant attrition, or non-renewal of retail alarm monitoring contracts or loss of dealer relationships would materially adversely affect our results of operations. We experience attrition of Dealer customer relationships and alarm monitoring contracts as a result of several factors including relocation of end-users, adverse financial and economic conditions and competition from other alarm service companies. In addition, we may lose or experience non-renewal of certain alarm monitoring contracts of Dealers, particularly acquired Dealer customer relationships and alarm monitoring contracts, if we do not service those alarm monitoring contracts adequately or do not successfully integrate new alarm monitoring contracts into our operations. A significant increase in attrition or the non-renewal of alarm monitoring contracts would have a material adverse effect on our revenues and earnings. To the extent that actual attrition exceeds our expectations, our revenues, profitability, cash flow and earnings would be adversely affected. Attrition for acquired Dealer customer relationships and alarm monitoring contracts may be greater in the future than the attrition rate assumed or historically incurred by us. In addition, because some Dealer customer relationships and acquired alarm monitoring contracts are prepaid on an annual, semi-annual or quarterly basis, attrition may not become evident for some time after an acquisition is consummated. If our retail alarm monitoring contract attrition exceeds 18% for certain periods, we will be required to offer to purchase a portion of the outstanding 12% Senior Secured Notes due 2011. Our actual attrition for fiscal year 2006 was 12.9%. Under the same circumstances, our ability to purchase new retail alarm monitoring contracts may be limited. If we are required to make such an offer, we may not have sufficient funds to purchase the Notes we are required to repurchase or such repurchase could adversely affect our liquidity. We face significant competition in the security alarm industry, which could make it more difficult for us to succeed in securing relationships with Dealers and reduce the number of alarm monitoring contracts we are able to acquire. We are dependent on entering into and maintaining relationships with Dealers who will either sell their alarm monitoring contracts directly to us, borrow from us, or enter into alarm monitoring contracts for us to provide wholesale monitoring services for the alarm monitoring contracts retained by them. While we do not typically compete directly with many of the larger companies in the industry because we do not primarily sell and install security systems, we are nonetheless impacted by the competitive challenge these entrants present to Dealers. There is the potential that larger companies in the industry may generate alarm monitoring contracts offering "zero down" on equipment purchases and installation. The independent Dealer may have to offer the same "zero down" deal in order to effectively compete. Since the end-users attracted to "zero- down" promotions are often of lower credit standing and thereby are more likely to default, we will only purchase these contracts if they have been outstanding for periods longer than 12 months and exhibit acceptable payment patterns as well as acceptable responses to quality control calls, thus potentially limiting the available alarm monitoring contracts which meet our due diligence standards. TOC 12 We also compete with several companies that have alarm monitoring contract acquisition and loan programs for Dealers and some of those competitors may be larger and better capitalized than we are. Some of these companies may be able to pay higher multiples of recurring monthly revenue for the portfolios they acquire than we can. We may be required to offer higher prices for such acquisitions than we have in the past, thus making these acquisitions less financially advantageous. Some of the companies we compete with include ADT, Protection One, Brinks and Honeywell. There is also the potential for other entities such as banks or finance companies to become more active as a source of competition for the Dealer financing portions of our business. We may not be able to obtain all of the benefits of the security alarm monitoring contracts we purchase. A principal element of our business strategy is to acquire portfolios of alarm monitoring contracts. Acquisitions of end-user alarm monitoring contracts involve a number of risks, including the possibility that we will not be able to realize the recurring monthly revenue stream we contemplated at the time of acquisition because of higher than expected attrition rates or fraud. Although we complete an extensive due diligence process prior to acquiring alarm monitoring contracts and obtain representations and warranties from the seller, we may not be able to detect fraud on the part of the seller, including the possibility that the seller has misrepresented the historical attrition rates of the sold contracts or has sold or pledged the contracts to a third party. If the sale of alarm monitoring contracts involves fraud or the representations and warranties are otherwise inaccurate, we may not be able to recover from the seller damages in the amount sufficient to fully compensate us for any resulting losses. In such event, we may incur significant costs in litigating ownership or breach of acquisition contract terms. We may pursue acquisitions of alarm monitoring call centers that by their nature present risks and may not be successful. An element of our business strategy is to acquire additional alarm monitoring call centers. The following are some of the risks associated with these acquisitions: · We may be unable to achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flow because of higher than expected attrition rates or other reasons. · We may be unable to integrate acquired call centers successfully and realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits in a timely manner. If we are unable to integrate acquired call centers successfully, we could incur substantial costs and delays or other operational, technical or financial problems. · If we are not successful in integrating acquired call centers, we could have increased attrition because of service-related problems. · Acquisitions could disrupt our ongoing business, distract management, divert resources and make it difficult to maintain our current business standards, controls and procedures. We also face competition in identifying and purchasing suitable alarm monitoring centers. We compete with other firms, many of which have greater financial and other resources than we do, for the acquisition of alarm monitoring centers. Should this competition increase, it will be more difficult to acquire additional alarm monitoring centers, on terms acceptable to us. Our ability to continue to grow our business is dependent upon our ability to obtain additional financing. We intend to continue to pursue growth through the acquisition of end-user alarm monitoring contracts and wholesale monitoring businesses. We will be required to seek additional funding from third party lenders and/or from the possible sale of additional securities, which may lead to higher leverage or the dilution of then existing stockholders. Our senior secured notes contain terms that limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness which may negatively impact our ability to acquire additional monitoring contracts. Any inability to obtain funding through third party financing is likely to adversely affect our ability to continue or increase our acquisition activities. Third party funding may not be available to us on attractive terms or at all. Rising interest rates could negatively affect our profitability. The interest rate of our financing is generally tied to prevailing market rates. In the event that interest rates rise, the spread between our cost of capital and the amount that we can charge Dealers who borrow from us may decrease, which will negatively affect our profitability. We could face liability for our failure to respond adequately to alarm activations. The nature of the services we provide potentially exposes us to risks of liability for employee acts or omissions or system failures. In an attempt to reduce this risk, our alarm monitoring agreements and other agreements pursuant to which we sell our products and services contain provisions limiting liability to end-users and Dealers. However, in the event of litigation with respect to such matters, there can be no assurance that these limitations will continue to be enforced. In addition, the costs of such litigation could have an adverse effect on us. We may face additional costs and potential liability as a result of "false alarm" ordinances. Significant concern has arisen in certain municipalities about the high incidence of false alarms. This concern could cause a decrease in the likelihood or timeliness of police response to alarm activations and thereby decrease the propensity of consumers to purchase or maintain alarm monitoring services. A number of local governmental authorities have considered or adopted various measures aimed at reducing the number of false alarms. Such measures include subjecting alarm monitoring companies to fines or penalties for transmitting false alarms, licensing individual alarm systems and the revocation of such licenses following a specified number of false alarms, imposing fines on alarm end-users for false alarms, imposing limitations on the number of times the police will respond to alarms at a particular location after a specified number of false alarms and requiring sufficient further verification of an alarm signal before the police will respond. Enactment of such measures could increase our costs and thus adversely affect our future results of operations. TOC 13 Future government or other organization regulations and standards could have an adverse effect on our operations. Our operations are subject to a variety of laws, regulations and licensing requirements of federal, state and local authorities. In certain jurisdictions, we are required to obtain licenses or permits, to comply with standards governing employee selection and training and to meet certain standards in the conduct of our business. The loss of such licenses, or the imposition of conditions to the granting or retention of such licenses, could have an adverse effect on us. We believe that we are in material compliance with applicable laws and licensing requirements. In the event that these laws, regulations and/or licensing requirements change, it could require us to modify our operations or to utilize resources to maintain compliance with such rules and regulations. There can be no assurance as to what new regulations will be enacted and what effect they may have on us. The loss of our Underwriters Laboratories listing could negatively impact our competitive position. All of our monitoring call centers are UL listed. To obtain and maintain a UL listing, an alarm monitoring call center must be located in a building meeting UL's structural requirements, have back-up and uninterruptible power supply, have secure telephone lines and maintain redundant computer systems. UL conducts periodic reviews of monitoring call centers to ensure compliance with their regulations. Non-compliance could result in a suspension of our UL listing. The loss of our UL listing could negatively impact our competitive position. We rely on technology which may become obsolete. Our monitoring services depend upon the technology (hardware and software) of security alarm systems. We may be required to upgrade or implement new technology which could require significant capital expenditures. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement new technologies or adapt existing technologies to changing market demands. If we are unable to adapt in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, such inability could adversely affect our business. In the event that adequate insurance is not available or our insurance is not deemed to cover a claim we could face liability. We carry insurance of various types, including general liability and errors and omissions insurance. Our loss experience and that of other security service companies may affect the availability and cost of such insurance. Certain of our insurance policies and the laws of some states may limit or prohibit insurance coverage for punitive or certain other types of damages, or liability arising from gross negligence. To the extent that insurance was not available, or a particular claim was not covered or exceeded our coverage, we could be exposed to material costs. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 