Risk factors,” Item 7 of Part II – “Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations,” elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and those discussed in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). We make these forward-looking statements based upon information available on the date of this Annual Report and we have no obligation (and expressly disclaim any such obligation) to update or alter any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information or otherwise except as otherwise required by securities regulations. As used herein, “Audience,” “we,” “us” and “our” refer to Audience, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. 1 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements PART I Item 1. Business Business overview We are the leading provider of intelligent voice and audio solutions that improve voice quality and the user experience in mobile devices. We collaborate with leading auditory neuroscientists to understand the human auditory system and have developed purpose-built processors that combine science and technology to function like human hearing. Our low power, hardware-accelerated digital signal processors (“DSPs”) and audio codecs and associated algorithms substantially improve sound quality and suppress noise in mobile devices. As the primary driver of the mobile device market, the mobile phone continues to play an increasingly prominent role in peoples’ lives. Voice communication is a primary function of mobile phones, and we expect voice to increasingly complement touch as a core user interface, heightening the importance of voice and audio quality in mobile devices. The human auditory system is remarkable for its ability to isolate individual sources within a complex sound mixture, which we refer to as auditory intelligence. We have incorporated this auditory intelligence into an intelligent platform by employing computational auditory scene analysis (“CASA”), a scientific discipline dedicated to mapping the sound separation functions in human hearing, into a computational framework. This approach enables our products to intelligently characterize, group and isolate sounds to improve sound quality while suppressing noise. We believe that our approach addresses the challenge of providing clear and consistent voice and audio quality more effectively than other available solutions. We also believe that our highly scalable platform will enable us to create and drive differentiated user experiences, such as robust speech recognition and high-quality audio for mobile video communication. Our platform consists of our proprietary, purpose-built DSPs and audio codec, analog and mixed signal circuits and algorithms for voice isolation and noise suppression. We also provide our proprietary AuViD graphical design tools to help original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) design in and tune our products in their efforts to bring mobile devices with the best voice and audio quality to market rapidly. Our technologies and tools are underpinned by our significant intellectual property, resulting in a strong foundation from which to extend the value of our platform through continued innovation and integration of adjacent voice and audio functionality. We were founded in 2000 and initially targeted the rapidly growing mobile device market, including mobile phones, media tablets and mobile PCs. We began production shipments in 2008 and, as of December 31, 2013, had sold over 400 million processors to our OEM customers. In addition to the mobile device market, we believe that our voice and audio technology is applicable to a broad range of other market segments, including automobile infotainment systems, digital cameras, digital televisions, headsets and set top boxes, although we have not yet released products for those specific market segments. We outsource the manufacture of our voice and audio processors to independent foundries and use third parties for assembly, packaging, test and logistics. We had total revenue of $ 160.1 million, $143.9 million and $97.7 million for 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We had net income of $2.1 million, $15.6 million and $8.3 million for 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Historically, our revenue has been significantly concentrated in a small number of OEMs, contract manufacturers (“CMs”) and distributors and we expect that concentration to continue for the foreseeable future. Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. (“Samsung”) represented 63%, 48% and 20% of our total revenue in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. In 2013, 2012 and 2011, one of our largest OEMs, Apple Inc. (“Apple”) and its CMs, Foxconn International Holdings, Ltd. and its affiliates (collectively “Foxconn”) and Protek (Shanghai) Limited and its affiliates (collectively, “Protek”), represented 21%, 46% and 75% of our total revenue, respectively. We expect that our total revenue from Apple and its CMs will decline as end users focus on Apple’s 2012 and 2013 model mobile phones and the earlier models in which our processors or semiconductor intellectual property (“processor IP”) are included decline in sales or become obsolete and are no longer produced. We also receive a lower royalty per mobile device than the selling price of a stand-alone processor. 2 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Industry overview Mobile devices are ubiquitous today and play an increasingly prominent role in peoples’ lives. However, due to network and device limitations, voice quality has not improved significantly since the introduction of mobile phones. For example, the sound frequency range used by mobile devices has historically been constrained by narrowband, circuit switched networks, resulting in lower voice quality than in a face-to-face conversation. Mobile devices have historically been unable to adequately separate the user’s voice from background noise. As a result, users have had to tolerate noisy, poor quality voice communication. After years of mobile network infrastructure investments in bandwidth and connectivity, mobile network operators (“MNOs”) are turning their attention to voice and audio quality as a way to improve user experience, satisfaction and loyalty. The transition from narrowband to wideband communications has produced networks capable of carrying higher quality signals, and the sound quality delivered by these networks is poised for significant improvement. Advanced voice and audio solutions will also enable mobile devices to improve sound quality and enhance the user experience. As users increasingly become aware of these network and device improvements, they are demanding improved voice quality in the devices they depend upon, including smartphones, feature phones, media tablets and laptops. In addition, new applications and functionality, such as voice as a user interface, will require improved voice and audio quality. We expect that OEMs and MNOs will increasingly adopt advanced voice and audio solutions as they seek to differentiate future products and services. Trends driving demand for high-quality voice and audio solutions in mobile devices Sound quality is fundamental to the user experience in mobile communications. A variety of trends are driving demand for high-quality voice and audio solutions in mobile devices, including: Users expect more freedom in how and where they communicate. Users increasingly want to make or take calls with their mobile devices in noisy environments, but they also want to hear and be heard clearly. Users want a consistent, high-quality voice and audio experience whether conducting a conference call from an airport, video chatting in a cafe, calling a friend hands-free while driving or capturing and posting multimedia content to a social network page. Emerging adoption of wideband communications networks. MNOs are migrating the delivery of voice content from narrowband, circuit-switched public networks to more advanced, wideband, packet-switched Internet Protocol networks. Internet Protocol-based coding and transmission enables a much richer voice experience by widening the prior frequency limits on voice transmission. Users expect high-quality voice and audio in their mobile devices. As MNOs and OEMs promote new wideband networks and more advanced mobile devices in their marketing campaigns, users are learning to expect and seek improved voice and audio quality from those networks and devices. Increased functionality in mobile devices. OEMs are adding new features to mobile devices that were historically found only in stand-alone devices such as music players, video cameras, navigation devices, gaming devices and others. Substantial improvements in voice and audio quality improve the user experience for many of these functions. OEMs are making greater investments in voice and audio quality for multifunction mobile devices. Increased far-field interaction with mobile devices. An increasing number of applications require far-field use cases, in which the microphone is held farther from the sound source than traditional handset use modes. A common far-field use case is speakerphone mode, which is typically used with applications such as hands-free calling, video call applications and voice search. These and other applications require a combination of speech, touch and visual interaction where the mobile device is held away from the speaker. Far-field uses are more vulnerable to background noise interference and poor voice quality given the speaker’s distance from the device. 3 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Voice is becoming a preferred interface for mobile devices. Voice communication is a fundamental form of human interaction and represents a natural interface for mobile devices. A common use of voice as a mobile device interface is in automobiles, where users are required to comply with hands-free legislation. Similar to the evolution of touch as an interface, speech recognition is expected to be increasingly important, particularly as voice-enabled applications become more prevalent and viable. Poor-quality audio impacts the High Definition (“HD”) video experience. As HD video content continues to become increasingly prevalent within broadband and broadcast networks, we believe that a high-quality audio user experience will provide a point of substantial differentiation in the experience of consuming media content, and that robust real-time voice and audio processing will play an important role in user satisfaction as HD video capture and playback on mobile devices becomes more common. Voice and audio subsystem in mobile devices The voice and audio subsystem in a typical smartphone includes a baseband processor for modulation and transmission of voice and audio signals, an application processor for multimedia-based applications, audio codecs to digitally encode and decode audio signals, as well as acoustic elements such as microphones and speakers. Some mobile devices only incorporate a single microphone as part of the audio subsystem, while more advanced mobile devices use two microphone solutions to increase the amount of information available to improve the voice and audio performance of the device. The voice and audio subsystem also includes other analog circuits, such as data converters, amplifiers and mixers, each of which has a specific function along the signal chain. Figure 1: Illustrative voice and audio subsystem for a typical smartphone 4 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Innovation in the voice and audio subsystem A greater number of mobile devices are incorporating a new category of voice and audio processors with dedicated processing resources and specialized algorithms to improve user experience. The pace of innovation in voice and audio processing has recently accelerated, with the adoption of two or more microphone nonstationary noise suppression solutions. We believe that new technology development and introduction will continue at a rapid pace for the foreseeable future, driven by demand for improved voice and audio quality, with voice becoming a core user interface in mobile devices. Industry challenges and our competitive strengths The mobile environment is noisy and the isolation of voice from background noise is very difficult. Removing background noise while preserving speech quality is challenging. Nonstationary noise, such as voice or music, which constantly changes in both frequency and loudness, is particularly problematic and is especially difficult to remove without affecting speech quality. An effective solution should be able to remove all noise types, in almost all conditions, without harming speech quality. Our proprietary platform offers high-quality voice and audio performance at low power by leveraging our purpose-built DSPs and algorithms. Our CASA-based architecture scales with compute power and across new applications and use cases. We believe this ability to scale our technology differentiates us from alternative approaches to voice and audio quality. Additionally, the flexibility of our platform’s design interface makes it easy for customers to integrate our products into a wide range of mobile devices. More than 60% of our research and development team have advanced engineering degrees and many are leading innovators in CASA, speech analysis and coding, spatial audio and acoustics, among other disciplines. Implementing high-quality voice and audio solutions on mobile devices is challenging and requires close industry partnerships. Mobile devices are small, thereby limiting any opportunity to spread out or use a large number of microphones to locate the desired voice. The small form factor of mobile devices also makes it difficult to physically separate speakers from microphones to prevent echo. There is typically little or no flexibility to adapt the mobile device form factor to the acoustic needs of a voice processing solution. Cost constraints often compel OEMs to use low cost, commoditized microphones and speakers, which have significant manufacturing variances that impair most multimicrophone solutions. Finally, short design cycles further exacerbate these issues by limiting the window of time to tune device performance for a device’s individual acoustic and electronic characteristics. We are engaged in various ways with leading MNOs, including AT&T, Inc. (“AT&T”), China Mobile Limited (China Mobile), Orange plc, Sprint Corporation, Telecom Italia SpA, Deutsche Telekom (“T-Mobile”), Verizon Wireless and Vodafone Group plc. We also work closely with OEMs throughout their design processes using our proprietary AuViD graphical design tools to integrate our solutions into their mobile devices, which enables us to improve design efficiency, increase productivity and establish differentiated design relationships with OEMs. We also have a considerable field application engineering team to provide design support capabilities, enabling OEMs to efficiently deploy our solutions across their portfolio. Our solution We provide intelligent voice and audio solutions that substantially improve sound quality and suppress noise in mobile devices. We believe that our auditory intelligence approach addresses the challenge of providing clear and consistent voice and audio quality more effectively than other available solutions. Our platform consists of our proprietary, purpose-built DSPs and audio codecs, analog and mixed signal circuits and algorithms for voice isolation and noise suppression. Benefits to mobile device users Differentiated voice and audio quality. Our products substantially improve voice quality and reduce background noise on mobile devices wherever they are used. 5 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Consistent voice and audio experience. Our products enable a more consistent voice and audio experience, regardless of the use case or surrounding noise environment. Robust speech recognition. By combining our high-quality voice isolation capability with third-party speech recognition software, our intelligent voice and audio solutions improve the user experience with speech recognition applications. Clarity of audio capture and playback. We believe that demand for creating and viewing user-generated content will lead users to select devices that feature differentiated HD audio and video capture. Benefits to the mobile device ecosystem Original equipment manufacturers. OEMs can more effectively differentiate their mobile devices by providing a better user experience when our intelligent voice and audio solutions are incorporated into their products. Our solutions also help OEMs’ mobile devices to meet specifications set by MNOs regarding voice and audio quality. Mobile network operators. By improving the user experience, our processors can increase user demand for mobile communication services, enhance user satisfaction and promote user loyalty. Additionally, our processors’ noise suppression capabilities also have the potential to increase network capacity for MNOs by reducing the transmission of noise. Mobile operating system providers. Mobile operating system providers benefit from our processors’ ability to intelligently analyze and understand the sound environment in support of speech recognition, multimedia and other applications. Our technology We collaborate with leading experts in auditory neuroscience to understand the detailed function of the human auditory pathway, uniquely combining science and technology to model the functions of human hearing. Our architecture combines scientific breakthroughs with DSP hardware acceleration to deliver a solution with the intelligence of human hearing in the size and power constraints of mobile devices. The human auditory system is remarkable for its ability to identify and isolate individual sources within a complex sound mixture to enable people to hear the desired sound source clearly, which we refer to as auditory intelligence. To effectively manage the separation and identification of individual sounds, the human hearing system evaluates the entire auditory scene based on a variety of characteristics. Employing the science of CASA, our proprietary technology has been designed to intelligently characterize, group, classify the auditory scene and isolate a speaker’s voice from noise. Our proprietary CASA-based algorithms provide a rich, highly integrated capability we use to deliver leading-edge voice and audio quality solutions. Our platform allows us to create custom, hardware-accelerated DSPs, purpose-built for our algorithms, to provide top performance with low power characteristics. Our core technology has already scaled from basic calls to more difficult voice use cases, such as wideband speakerphone mode. We believe our dedicated approach to voice and audio processing will continue to enable our solutions to scale along with the demands in mobile devices for increased performance and more robust feature sets. Our architecture will allow us to incorporate additional intelligence into our solutions in each of the processing stages, such as adding new characterization cues to enable more refined decision making. We believe that this will enable our solutions to better address new and more challenging use cases and noise conditions as compared to traditional approaches. 6 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The following descriptions and diagram of corresponding stages depict our CASA-based architecture for a DSP. • Fast Cochlea Transform (“FCT”). Our proprietary FCT architecture, based on the human cochlea, transforms incoming sound waves into frequency components in order to map the digital audio stream into a three-dimensional representation of the sound mixture. This approach has significant benefits over the typical method, the Fast Fourier Transform (“FFT”). In particular, it offers much higher spectro-temporal resolution than is possible using FFT, enabling precise characterization and analysis of the auditory scene, similar to the analysis that occurs in the human auditory pathway. Our solutions attain this resolution with very low latency, which is necessary for use in real-time communications. This combination of high resolution and low latency is unique to the FCT. • Characterization. During characterization, our solutions identify and compute the acoustic properties of incoming sounds according to fundamental attributes such as pitch, harmonics, spatial location, temporal and other information in the frequency domain. The diversity and precision of our characterization is essential to making intelligent decisions in the grouping stage which follows. • Grouping. Following characterization, our solutions group the FCT domain components of the sound mixture into individual sources according to a variety of CASA principles, such as common location, onset time and fundamental frequency, as well as timbral consistency. Information from the characterization stage is simultaneously evaluated in real time, including time alignment, in order to decide which FCT domain energy belongs to which sound source. In this way, individual sound components are grouped to create separate audio streams, which are then tracked independently. • Voice isolation. Once all of the individual sound components have been properly characterized and grouped into discrete streams, the sound source of interest is selected. Importantly, the isolation stage enables the intelligent separation of voice from other components of the sound mixture, eliminating noise and other audio to deliver clear voice and audio to users. • Inverse FCT. As a final stage, the inverse FCT is responsible for reconstructing the FCT data back into high-quality digitized audio for further transmission. Figure 3: Stages of our CASA-based architecture Our products Our voice and smart sound solutions include our proprietary, purpose-built DSPs and audio codecs, algorithms for voice isolation and noise suppression and our design tools and support capabilities. These processors enable noise suppression and improved sound quality in narrowband and wideband for real-time communications, including Internet Protocol-based communication, speech-based applications and multimedia applications such as audio recording, video recording and voice command web searches. 7 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our processors provide dedicated computational power for the implementation of our proprietary, CASA-based algorithms. These processors have been optimized for both performance and power and utilize advanced hardware acceleration techniques. Our product portfolio supports both analog and digital interfaces to provide added design flexibility for our customers. We design our solutions to deliver consistent performance. Incorporating over 10 years of field testing and device data, our solutions deliver improved voice and audio quality and noise suppression in near and far-field modes and at different handset orientations. Our processors deliver noise suppression in real world environments by removing both stationary and nonstationary noise for narrowband and wideband communications. Key features of our products include: Real time communication voice quality • Nonstationary noise suppression: Suppression of dynamic distracters, such as background voices or music, characterized by rapid or random changes. • Transmit and receive: Simultaneous signal processing along both the transmit and receive paths. In the transmit path, the user’s auditory scene is processed before transmission to the listener on the other end. In the receive path, the audio stream from the other end is improved by our solution and then presented to the near end listener. • Near-field and far-field capability: More consistent voice and audio quality wherever the device is held and used. • Narrowband and wideband: Capable of signal processing for both narrowband and wideband signals. • Audience Bandwidth Expansion: Improves narrowband signals by estimating and adding energy at higher sound frequencies to create wideband voice quality and deliver rich, full sound quality. • Acoustic echo cancellation: Cancellation of echo caused by acoustic conditions that redirect sound, such as the acoustic coupling between a mobile device’s speakers and microphones. • Always-on VoiceQ: Enables a device to be in always listening mode, ready to understand and act upon verbal commands without significantly impacting battery life. We expect our processors with this technology to begin shipping in the second half of 2014. Automatic speech recognition (“ASR”) assist • ASR assist: Improves accuracy and performance of speech enabled applications in the presence of noise. Integrated audio codec • Dynamic range: High dynamic range leads to better perceived high fidelity audio quality. The codec integrated with our voice processors provides outputs with high dynamic range that meet stringent audio performance specifications for mobile devices. • Multimedia features: The integration of mixed-signal and DSP components into a single device allows for power-efficient new wideband audio multimedia features. Multimedia improvement • Parametric equalization: Post-processing of music streams during playback to emulate audio profiles such as rock, classical, jazz and other custom profiles by enhancing specific frequencies in the audio stream. • Stereo widening: Improvement of music playback over headphones or stereo loudspeakers by expanding the perceived spatial separation of different sounds 8 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our voice and audio solutions We offer custom voice and audio processors, some with integrated smart audio codecs for device platforms including smartphones, feature phones and media tablets. These processors are accompanied by our integration tools and support. We offer the following processors: • eS305: Second generation voice and audio processor utilizing new hardware acceleration architecture and algorithms for far-field, wideband communications and capable of advanced speech recognition assist; uses an all-digital interface. • eS310: Provides similar capabilities to the eS305. It also provides flexible connectivity to adjacent components, including both analog and digital interfaces. • eS325: Third generation voice and audio processor that features simultaneous three microphone processing, optimized ASR and bandwidth expansion technology for consistent voice call experience when moving between 3G and 4G networks. • eS70x: Fourth generation family of Advanced Voice and audio products, the eS70x Series is our most recently launched family of processors, delivering a range of innovations in speech, voice and multimedia audio processing and introduces new features such as wind noise suppression, full band (48 kHz) voice processing, and Audience VoiceQ, a voice sensing technology that enables dependable continuous voice detection and actuation. This product family also delivers improved performance across a number of key voice and audio technologies including third generation Automatic Speech Recognition Assist (“ASR Assist”) leading-edge noise suppression performance, bandwidth expansion (“BWE”), improved acoustic echo cancellation (“AEC”), and audio playback enhancements such as equalization, multi-band compression and virtual bass boost. We expect to commence shipments of this family of products during the second half of 2014. • eS75x: The eS75x family of products combines the eS70x advanced voice and audio processing capabilities with a high performance mixed-signal audio sub-system consisting of a multi-channel audio codec with integrated headphone, earpiece and speaker amplifiers, resulting in a fully integrated audio hub solution. We expect to commence shipments of this family of products during the second half of 2014. Custom solutions: We sell a customized version of one of our processors to Apple and its CMs, Foxconn and Protek. We have also licensed our semiconductor intellectual property, which we refer to as processor IP, for custom designs to Apple for integration into its mobile devices. Integration tools and support: We provide OEMs with our AuViD graphical design tools enabling them to efficiently integrate and customize the features of our voice and audio processors across a multitude of device designs. These tools feature an easy-to-use visual design interface and facilitate rapid and cost-effective design integration. Our applications and technical sales engineers work closely with OEMs to provide design support from device concept through field testing. Customers We derive our revenue primarily from the sale of our voice and audio processors to OEMs which incorporate them into mobile devices. We currently have design wins for our voice and audio processors to OEMs in the United States and Asia. As of December 31, 2013, OEMs, CMs and distributors worldwide had purchased more than 400 million of our processors and incorporated them in over 220 mobile device models that have reached commercial production. In 2013, 2012 and 2011, sales to CMs and OEMs with manufacturing operations and distributors in Asia represented substantially all of our hardware revenue. Commencing in the first quarter of 2012, we began recording licensing revenue on royalty payments that is attributed to one OEM’s headquarters location, which is in the United States. For 2013, sales to CMs and OEMs in Asia and the United States accounted for 93% and 7% of our total revenue, respectively. 9 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements OEMs design in our products and either procure them directly from us or indirectly through CMs or distributors. OEMs and their CMs and distributors generally purchase our voice and audio processors on a purchase order basis and do not enter into long-term contracts or have minimum purchase commitments with us that would obligate them to purchase additional products from us in the future. For example, we do not have a long term supply contract with Samsung or Xiaomi, which were two of our largest customers in 2013. Since we began generating revenue in 2008, Apple, through its CMs, Foxconn and Protek, HTC, LG, Motorola, Pantech, Samsung, Sharp, Sony, Meizu, Huawei, Yulong, Xiaomi and ZTE have incorporated our products into certain smartphones and feature phones, and, in the case of HTC, Samsung, Sony, Acer and Google media tablets. In 2013, revenue from Samsung, Apple and Comtech, a distributor, accounted for 63%, 21% and 11% of our total revenue, respectively. In 2012, revenue from Samsung, Apple and Foxconn accounted for 48%, 27% and 14% of our total revenue, respectively. In 2011, revenue from two CMs, Foxconn and Protek, and from one OEM, Samsung, accounted for 65%, 10%, and 20% of total revenue, respectively. No other OEM, CM or distributor accounted for 10% or more of our total revenue in 2013, 2012 or 2011. We expect that our relationship with Samsung will continue to account for a substantial portion of our total revenue for 2014. On August 6, 2008, we entered into an agreement with Apple. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, we develop, supply and support a custom version of one of our processors and related software to Foxconn and Protek for use in certain mobile phones. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, we also license processor IP for certain mobile devices. Foxconn and Protek are not obligated to purchase any of our processors and their OEM is not obligated to integrate or enable our processor IP in any of its current or future products. This OEM and its affiliates are not precluded from developing competing products or technologies internally and designing those internally developed products and technologies into its mobile devices. For additional information on our agreement with this OEM, see Item 7 of Part II –“Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As part of our 2008 license, we are entitled to receive a royalty for each mobile device that is sold incorporating and, with respect to mobile devices other than mobile phones, enabling our processor IP. Apple integrated our processor IP into the 2011 model of its mobile phone and we began to recognize licensing revenue from the 2011 model of the mobile phone in 2012. Although we made available the processor IP for the 2012 and 2013 models of the mobile phone to the OEM, we received royalty reports from Apple which indicated that our processor IP had been integrated but not enabled in the 2012 and 2013 models of its mobile phones. In the event that this OEM should enable our processor IP into new mobile phone model, the royalties we would be entitled to receive are subject to a lifetime cap. Our licensing revenue declined substantially in the last quarter of 2012 and during 2013, and we expect it to continue to decline. Sales and marketing We sell our voice and audio processors to OEMs and their CMs through a direct sales force aided in certain regions by third-party sales representatives. For some OEMs, distributors purchase processors from us to fulfill the OEMs’ orders. We maintain sales operations, which include our direct sales force, third-party sales representatives and distributors, in Asia, North America, Japan and Europe. Substantially all of our revenue has been generated by sales to CMs and OEMs that manufacture their products in Asia. We expect sales to CMs and OEMs in Asia to contribute a majority of our revenue for the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2013, we had 98 employees in sales and marketing, including our application engineers and technical sales people, located in North America, Asia and Europe. Our direct sales force focuses on securing design wins to incorporate our voice and audio processors in OEMs’ mobile devices. We work directly with OEMs to create awareness of our product offerings and provide design and integration support. We have also worked with MNOs to educate them about factors contributing to voice and audio quality in order to enable them to further improve customer satisfaction. We work with MNOs to encourage OEMs to incorporate intelligent voice and audio solutions in their products. 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Manufacturing and operations We operate a fabless business model and outsource the manufacturing of our voice and audio processors. Manufacturing includes the fabrication of integrated circuits, assembly, packaging and test. We currently rely on Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Ltd. (“TSMC”) to produce most of our voice and audio processors at three of its fabrication facilities in Taiwan. We have also engaged GLOBALFOUNDRIES Inc. (“Globalfoundries”) to produce some of our voice and audio processors at two of its fabrication facilities in Singapore and have begun commercial production at these locations. In addition, we rely on third parties, such as Signetics Corporation (“Signetics”) and STATSChipPAC Ltd. (“STATSChipPAC”), for assembly, packaging and test, and other contractors for logistics. We do not have any long-term supply agreements with our foundries or our assembly, packaging, test and logistics vendors. This outsourced manufacturing approach allows us to focus our resources on the design, sale and marketing of our products. In addition, we believe that outsourcing our manufacturing provides us the flexibility needed to respond to variations in customer demand, simplifies our operations and significantly reduces our capital requirements. Competition The market for mobile device components is highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. There are a number of components in the voice and audio subsystem of a mobile device including baseband processors, audio codecs and voice and audio processors. Currently, we provide only voice and audio processors and an audio codec and do not compete in other aspects of the mobile device component market. In the future, we may elect to expand our offerings to include other subsystem components and we would compete against companies offering those subsystem components. Companies that currently compete for sales of other mobile device components may enter the voice and audio processor market with stand-alone components or components with other functionalities and compete with us. We currently face competition from a number of companies that produce components for the mobile device audio subsystem, including companies that produce dedicated voice and audio solutions, such as Qualcomm Incorporated. We also face competition from smaller, privately held companies and could face competition from new market entrants, whether from new ventures or from established companies moving into the areas of voice and audio subsystems that our products address. We also compete against solutions internally developed by OEMs, as well as combined third-party software and hardware systems. OEMs may seek to reduce the number of processors in their mobile devices and incorporate the functionality of our voice and audio processors into the central processing units of their mobile devices. OEMs may internally develop or rely on third-party suppliers to provide central processing units that combine multiple functionalities, including those provided by our processors, which could reduce the demand for our processors and adversely impact our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our ability to compete effectively depends on a number of factors, including: • our ability to attract, retain and support OEMs and to establish and maintain relationships with MNOs; • our ability to recruit and retain engineering, sales and marketing personnel; • our processors’ scalability, performance, quality, ease of use and cost effectiveness relative to those of our competitors’ products; • our success in developing and creating demand for new and proprietary technologies to offer products and features previously not available in the marketplace; • our success in identifying new markets, applications and technologies; • our products’ interoperability with various data access protocols and other voice and audio subsystem components of mobile devices; 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • our ability to continue to establish greater name recognition and build upon our reputation in the industry; • our ability to respond effectively to aggressive business tactics by our competitors, including selling at lower prices or asserting intellectual property rights irrespective of the validity of the claims; and • our ability to protect our intellectual property. With respect to these factors, based on publicly available data, we believe that we compete favorably on performance, scalability and cost. Research and development Since our inception we have made substantial investments in research and development. We have research and development facilities in Mountain View, California, Scotts Valley, California, Lafayette, Colorado and Bangalore, India. We opened a design center in Bangalore, India to support our research and development activities in 2012. As of December 31, 2013, we had 177 employees in research and development. Our focus is to further develop our current voice and audio processors and audio codecs, develop new products that achieve market acceptance, maintain technological competitiveness and meet an expanding range of mobile device requirements. Our team includes leading innovators in CASA, speech analysis and coding, spatial audio and acoustics, among other disciplines. Our total expenses for research and development for 2013, 2012 and 2011 were $43.3 million, $31.5 million and $21.6 million, respectively. Intellectual property Our success depends in part upon our ability to develop and protect our core technology and intellectual property. We rely primarily on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws, as well as contractual provisions with employees and third parties, to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. Our products are provided to OEM customers pursuant to agreements that impose restrictions on use and disclosure. Our agreements with employees and contractors who participate in the development of our core technology and intellectual property include provisions that assign intellectual property rights to us. In addition to the foregoing protections, we generally control access to our proprietary and confidential information through the use of internal and external controls. As of December 31, 2013, we held 40 issued United States (“U.S.”) patents expiring between July 2019 and March 2033 and also had 93 U.S. patent applications pending. As of December 31, 2013, we also had 47 pending foreign patent applications and seven patents issued. Each of the foreign patent applications is related to a U.S. patent or a pending U.S. patent application. Pending patent applications may receive unfavorable examination and are not guaranteed allowance as issued patents. We may elect to amend, abandon, or otherwise not pursue prosecution of certain pending patent applications or of certain inventions disclosed in those patent applications due to patent examination results, strategic concerns, economic considerations or other factors. To the extent that a patent is issued, any such issued patent may be contested, circumvented, found unenforceable or invalidated and we may be unwilling or unable to prevent third parties from infringing a particular patent. Moreover, we cannot assure you that we can successfully use our patents to prevent competitors from copying our products or developing competing technologies. We will continue to assess appropriate occasions to seek patent protection for aspects of our technology that we believe provide us a significant competitive advantage in the market. As of December 31, 2013, we have the trademarks for “AUDIENCE”, “Fast Cochlea Transform”, “hear and be heard” and “the world’s most intelligent voice processor” registered in the U.S. Additionally we have trademark applications pending in the U.S. for “earSmart” and the earSmart Logo. As of December 31, 2013, we have the trademark for “AUDIENCE” registered in the European Union (“EU”), Japan and South Korea. We have the trademark for “earSmart and the earSmart logo registered in the EU, China, Japan, South Korea, and 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Taiwan. We have the trademark for “hear and be heard” registered in the EU, Japan, and South Korea. We have the trademark for earSmart composite mark registered in South Korea. Additionally, we have pending trademark applications for “AUDIENCE” in China and India, “earSmart” and the earSmart Logo in India, and “hear and be heard” in China and Taiwan. Employees As of December 31, 2013, we had 329 employees in offices across North America, Asia and Europe including 98 employees in sales and marketing, 177 in research and development, 21 in manufacturing and operations and 33 in general and administration. We consider our current relationship with our employees to be good. None of our employees are represented by labor unions or have collective bargaining agreements. Information about Segment and Geographic Revenue Information about segment and geographic revenue is set forth in Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. CORPORATE INFORMATION We were founded in July 2000 in California under the name Applied Neurosystems Corporation, and we changed our name to Audience, Inc. in June 2002. In June 2011, we reincorporated as a Delaware corporation under the name Audience, Inc. Our principal executive office is located at 331 Fairchild Drive, Mountain View, California 94043. Our telephone number is (650) 254-2800. Our website address is www.audience.com. Information contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. We file reports with the SEC including Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any other filings required by the SEC. We make available on our Investor Relations website, free of charge, our public filings with the SEC, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report or in any other report or document we file with the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. In April 2012, the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (the “JOBS Act”) was enacted. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) for complying with new or revised accounting standards. In other words, an emerging growth company can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We are electing to delay such adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and as a result, we may not comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for other companies. Subject to certain conditions set forth in the JOBS Act, as an emerging growth company, we intend to rely on certain of these exemptions, including without limitation, providing an auditor’s attestation report on our system of internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 and complying with any requirement 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements that may be adopted regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor’s report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis). These exemptions will no longer apply upon the earliest of (i) January 1, 2018, (ii) the first fiscal year after our annual gross revenues are $1.0 billion or more, (iii) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities or (iv) as of the end of any fiscal year in which the market value of our common stock that is held by nonaffiliates exceeds $700 million as of the end of the second quarter of that fiscal year. 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves numerous uncertainties and risks. The following risks and uncertainties may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. You should consider these risks and uncertainties carefully, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the risks or uncertainties we face were to occur, the trading price of our securities could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks related to our business and industry We depend on Samsung for the majority of our revenue and the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, Samsung could adversely affect our revenue and significantly harm our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, Samsung accounted for 63% and 48% of our total revenue, respectively. Samsung may purchase fewer of our voice and audio processors than they did in the past, alter their purchasing patterns, modify the terms on which they purchase our products, or decide not to purchase our products at all. We generally operate under purchase orders from Samsung and do not have a master supply agreement with this OEM. We renegotiate prices with Samsung periodically and our revenue and gross margins may fluctuate as a result. Samsung is not obligated to continue to purchase processors from us. Samsung may seek second sources or decide to replace our processors with another solution. If we fail to achieve design wins for global platforms at Samsung, our future revenue and profitability may be harmed. We depend on a small number of OEMs for a substantial majority of our revenue and the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, one or more of our OEMs could adversely affect our revenue and significantly harm our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We derive a substantial majority of our revenue from sales to a small number of OEMs. For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, Samsung and Apple, including its CMs Foxconn and Protek, accounted for 63% and 21%, and 48% and 46% of our total revenues, respectively. We expect this concentration in a small number of OEMs to continue during 2014. We may be unable to secure future design wins from these OEMs as they develop and introduce new products and, even if we do, existing OEM product sales may decline and new mobile devices introduced by our current OEMs may not achieve widespread market acceptance or be produced in large number. We cannot assure you that we will be able to sustain our revenue from our existing OEMs. Our OEMs typically buy our processors on a purchase order basis and do not enter into long-term contracts or minimum purchase commitments that would obligate them to continue to buy additional processors from us in the future. For example, we announced in August 2013 that weakness in demand for high end smart phones was anticipated to cause a decline in the volume of processors purchased from us by our largest OEM. Although we seek to grow our OEM base through new design wins, our sales and development cycle to obtain initial design wins from new OEMs is long and is subject to uncertainties, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in doing so. Even if we are successful in obtaining design wins with new OEMs, our existing OEM customers may continue to account for a substantial portion of our sales in the future. If we are unable to generate repeat business from our existing OEMs, generate revenue from new OEMs or expand into broader markets, our operating results would be adversely affected. If one or more of our existing OEMs were to decide not to use our processors or processor IP, that decision could harm our brand and impair our ability to maintain or extend our relationships with our other OEMs or establish new OEM relationships. In addition, if concentration in the mobile phone industry or the smartphone market segment increases, we may be unable to diversify our revenue base, which could significantly harm our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Decreased purchases by large OEM customers, whether for current or future mobile device models in which our products were included or otherwise, changes in their purchasing patterns, modification of terms or a disruption or termination of our relationships with these OEMs could adversely affect our revenue and significantly harm our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. This type of loss could also cause significant fluctuations in our results of operations because we have significant fixed expenses in the short term and our sales and development cycle to obtain new design wins and new OEMs is long. Although we are reliant on a small number of OEMs for our revenue in any period, the identity of those OEMs may change depending on the timing of their mobile device releases, seasonal user purchasing patterns and launch dates set by MNOs. We expect our operating results for the foreseeable future to depend on sales to a small number of OEMs and on the ability of these OEMs to sell mobile devices that incorporate our products and/or technology. Our revenue may fluctuate from quarter to quarter as our sales are dependent upon the timing of OEMs’ design cycles and product introductions. Substantially all of our sales to date have been made on a purchase order basis, which permits our OEMs to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with little or no notice to us and may make our revenue volatile from period to period. Our OEMs are generally not obligated to purchase from us and may purchase voice and audio solutions from our competitors. We typically work with OEMs to obtain design wins prior to the OEM entering into an agreement with an MNO to produce a given mobile device. However, even if the design win is awarded, the OEM or MNO may cancel a given mobile device launch. Although it would be time consuming for an OEM to design our products out of mobile devices currently in production, an OEM may seek to do so or to establish a second source. Even if our products offer superior sound quality, OEMs may elect to divide their purchases among two or more companies that supply voice and audio solutions to avoid becoming reliant on a single supplier and due to the perception that having multiple suppliers will enable the OEM to secure more favorable pricing. OEMs may decline to design in our products if one or more of the features of our products do not perform as well as those offered by other suppliers, despite our other features’ superior performance. We do not have agreements with our OEMs requiring them to incorporate our processors in future mobile devices. Our OEMs are not obligated to complete the development or begin commercial shipment of any devices that incorporate our processors. In the past, we were substantially dependent on Apple and its CMs for our revenue. Our relationship with this OEM is undergoing a significant transition, which may have a material and negative effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We sell our products to Apple and also license our processor IP to this OEM. For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, Apple accounted for 21% and 27% of our total revenue, respectively. We entered into an agreement with Apple in 2008, which governs our relationship and under which we sell custom processors to Foxconn and Protek and license our processor IP to this OEM for mobile phones. Based on this OEM’s royalty reports to us, our processor IP has been included but not enabled in this OEM’s 2012 and 2013 models of its mobile phones. As a result, our licensing revenue on royalty payments declined substantially commencing in the three months ended December 31, 2012, and we expect it to continue to decline. This OEM is not obligated to license additional processor IP from us or utilize the processor IP it has already licensed. In the event that we do not receive royalties from new generations of this OEM’s mobile devices and the demand for the mobile devices in which our processor IP is currently enabled declines, our revenue and profits will suffer. Although we may replace the revenue with processor sales to other OEMs, our gross margins may decline as we incur expenses for manufacturing those processors that we do not incur with processor IP. We have also been selling our processors to CMs for an older generation of this OEM’s mobile phones. This older generation of OEM’s mobile phones is now being phased out and as a result, the sales of our processors have fallen substantially. In future quarters, we do not expect to receive material revenue from the sale of our processors for this older generation of OEM’s mobile phones. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our licensing revenue from the 2011 model of this mobile phone has declined as consumers focus on this OEM’s 2012 and 2013 model mobile phones and we anticipate that it will continue to decline as consumers anticipate the launch of this OEM’s future model mobile phones. Although we are unable to determine when the OEM will stop production of the 2011 model of its mobile phones, we expect that over time, the OEM will sell fewer units of the 2011 model and at some point we will cease to receive licensing revenue for this model. In the event that our licensing revenue declines or we cease to receive royalty revenue from the mobile devices in which our processor IP is currently enabled, our revenue and profits will suffer and our gross margins may decline. Our licensing revenue from this OEM lags the sales of its mobile phones that integrate and enable our processor IP by one quarter. We have limited rights to audit the shipment data we receive, which limits our ability to verify calculated licensing revenue or seek redress for reports we believe are not accurate, and we have limited experience in testing and evaluating the accuracy of such data from this OEM. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from the high end smart phone market, and reductions in the growth rate of this market segment could adversely affect our revenue and significantly harm our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Much of our revenue comes from sales to OEMs incorporating our products in high end smart phones. Even if our products continue to be incorporated in these and similar high end smart phone models, shipment volumes of our products may decrease because of reduced demand for high end smart phones due to either user or MNO preference for less expensive smart phone models, or due to saturation of demand among users. If demand for high end mobile devices were to decline or fail to continue to grow in a manner consistent with expectations, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows would be significantly harmed. We may not be successful in our efforts to diversify end user devices that incorporate our products and may not realize substantial revenue from sales of our products for devices other than high end smart phones. We have made efforts to diversify the end user devices that incorporate our products. As a result of recent design wins, our processors have been included in recently launched personal computers and tablets. However, we have limited experience selling in these new markets in which competition for design slots is intense, and may not achieve market acceptance or design wins in end user devices that are produced in substantial numbers. If we are unable to realize more revenue from the sale of our products for devices other than high end smart phones, we may not be able to maintain or increase our revenue. We may not be successful in our efforts to expand our product offerings by selling solutions that include audio codecs. We have introduced our new eS75x series processor, which includes our audio codec that can translate back and forth between analog audio and digital signals. We have limited experience in designing audio codecs and selling processors that include audio codecs. The market for audio codecs is intensely competitive and we may not achieve market acceptance or design wins in end user devices that are produced in substantial numbers. If we are unable to realize revenue from the sale of our processors incorporating audio codecs, we may not be able to maintain or increase our revenue. We have a history of losses, and we may not be able to sustain profitability in the future. Since our formation, we incurred a net loss in every year prior to 2010. Although we had net income in 2013, 2012, 2011 and 2010 of $2.1 million, $15.6 million, $8.3 million and $4.8 million, respectively, we incurred net losses of $16.8 million in 2009 and $14.5 million in 2008. As of December 31, 2013, our accumulated deficit was $24.5 million. We anticipate continuing to spend significantly to develop new processors and expand our business, including expenditures for additional personnel in sales and marketing and 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements research and development. As a public company, we will also continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses as a result of regulatory requirements. We may encounter unforeseen difficulties, complications and delays and other unknown factors that require additional expenditures. Due to these increased expenditures, we will have to generate and sustain higher revenue in order to maintain and sustain profitability. Our rate of revenue growth may not be sustainable and we may not generate revenue in excess of our anticipated additional expenditures to maintain profitability. For example, we announced in February 2014 that we expected to incur a net loss in the three months ending March 31, 2014. Our expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to future sales and a significant percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short term. If sales are below expectations, our operating expenses would be disproportionately high relative to revenue, which would adversely impact our profitability. Although we have been profitable each year since 2010, we may not be able to sustain profitability in the future. Failure to sustain profitability may require us to raise additional capital, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, and you should not rely on our quarterly comparisons as an indicator of future performance. Our operating results may fluctuate due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Our sales cycles are long and unpredictable and our sales efforts require substantial time and expense. Our revenue is difficult to predict and may vary substantially from quarter to quarter, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly. We ship a significant portion of our processors in the same quarter in which they are ordered such that small delays in receipt of purchase orders and shipment of products could result in our failure to achieve our internal forecasts or stock market expectations. In any quarter, our revenue may be largely attributable to the timing of our OEMs’ orders. Our OEMs often increase purchases of our processors as part of product launches and the timing of those product launches may cause the timing of our orders with our OEMs to fluctuate. Our revenue depends on the ability of OEMs to sell mobile devices that incorporate our processors. In addition, we expect our gross margins to fluctuate over time depending on the mix of more recently introduced, higher margin products and older products that are subject to declining margins, as well as the mix between sales of processors and license of our processor IP. For these reasons, comparisons of our operating results on a period to period basis may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or the securities analysts that follow us, the price of our common stock may decline. Other factors that are difficult to predict and that may affect our operating results include: • the timing and magnitude of shipments of our processors and the sale of mobile devices that have integrated and enabled our processor IP in each quarter; • the extent to which and the timing of when our OEMs launch new mobile devices incorporating our voice and audio processors; • deferral of purchases of existing mobile devices in anticipation of new devices from our OEMs; • the introduction of new mobile device operating systems or upgrades and their impact on sales of existing mobile devices; • the timing of product introductions or upgrades or announcements by us or our competitors; • the gain or loss of one or more design wins with one or more significant OEMs; • fluctuations in demand and prices for our voice and audio processors; • increases in the cost to manufacture, assemble and test our processors; • OEMs overbuilding inventories of mobile devices and reducing purchases of our processors as they sell their excess inventory; 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • efforts to reduce the cost and/or the bill of materials of OEMs’ mobile devices and the impact on our pricing; • our ability to anticipate changing demands and develop new technologies, products and improvements that meet OEM and MNO requirements on a timely basis; • production delays as a result of manufacturing capacity or quality issues; • unanticipated sales return reserves or charges for excess or obsolete inventory; • changes in industry standards in the mobile device industry; • any change in the competitive landscape of our industry, including consolidation or the emergence of new competitors; • general economic conditions in the markets in which we operate; and • other factors outside of our control. For these reasons, comparisons of our operating results on a period to period basis may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. The market for mobile device components is highly competitive and includes larger companies with significantly greater resources than we have. If we are unable to compete effectively, we may experience decreased sales or increased pricing pressure, which would adversely impact our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. The market for mobile device components is highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. There are a number of components in the voice and audio subsystem of a mobile device including baseband processors, audio codecs and voice and audio processors. We provide voice and audio processors, and have begun providing audio codecs to compete in the mobile device component market. In the future, we may elect to expand our offerings to include other subsystem components and we would compete against companies offering those subsystem components. Companies that currently compete for sales of other mobile device components may enter the voice and audio processor market with stand-alone components or software solutions with other functionalities and compete with us. We currently face competition from a number of established companies that produce components or software for the mobile device audio subsystem, including companies that produce dedicated voice and audio solutions, such as Maxim, NXP, Qualcomm, Texas Instruments, Wolfson, Cirrus Logic and Yamaha. We also face competition from smaller, privately held companies, such as Fortemedia, and could face competition from new market entrants, whether from new ventures or from established companies moving into the areas of voice and audio subsystems that our products address. We also compete against solutions internally developed by OEMs, as well as combined third-party software and hardware systems. OEMs may seek to reduce the number of processors in their mobile devices and incorporate the functionality of our voice and audio processors into the central processing units of their mobile devices. OEMs may also internally develop or rely on third-party suppliers to provide central processing units that combine multiple functionalities, including those provided by our processors, which could reduce the demand for our processors and adversely impact our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Many of our well established current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater brand awareness, a more diversified OEM base, a longer history of selling voice and audio subsystem components to OEMs and significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we have. As a result of their established presence in the industry, some of our competitors have substantial control 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements and influence over future trends in the industry, including acceptance of a particular industry standard or competing technology. Many of our competitors benefit from long-standing relationships selling voice and audio subsystem components to key decision makers at many of our current and prospective OEMs. Our competitors may be able to leverage these existing OEM relationships to persuade our current and potential OEMs to purchase our competitors’ products, regardless of the performance or features of our processors. Our competitors may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products, which could allow them to introduce new technologies and products to the market faster than we can. In addition, the lack of widely accepted objective measures and testing standards for sound quality may make it difficult for OEMs and MNOs to assess the benefits of our solutions or differentiate our solutions from those of our competitors. Because many of our competitors have greater resources than we have and are able to offer a more diversified and comprehensive bundle of products and services, these competitors may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can, through which they could deliver competitive products or technologies at a lower price than our processors. Due to the larger production and sales volumes enjoyed by our larger competitors across multiple product families, our competitors may be able to negotiate price reductions, production dates and other concessions from their suppliers that we cannot. If our competitors are able to undercut our prices and/or improve their product performance, we may be unable to remain competitive in the industry and lose sales or be forced to reduce our selling prices. This could result in reduced gross margins, increased sales and marketing expenses or our failure to increase or maintain market segment share, any of which could seriously harm our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our ability to compete effectively depends on a number of factors, including: • our ability to attract, retain and support OEMs and to establish and maintain relationships with MNOs; • our ability to recruit and retain engineering, sales and marketing personnel; • our processors’ scalability, performance, quality, ease of use and cost effectiveness relative to those of our competitors’ products; • our success in developing and creating demand for new and proprietary technologies to offer products and features, including but limited to our recently launched feature Always-on VoiceQ; • our ability to continue to improve and enhance the features and functions of our current products; • our success in identifying new markets, applications and technologies; • our products’ interoperability with various data access protocols and other voice and audio subsystem components of mobile devices; • our ability to continue to establish greater name recognition and build upon our reputation in the industry; • our ability to respond effectively to aggressive business tactics by our competitors, including providing software solutions, selling at lower prices, or asserting intellectual property rights, irrespective of the validity of the claims; and • our ability to protect our intellectual property. If the market for mobile devices with improved sound quality and the demand for our products do not continue to grow as we expect, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Our processors are designed to address the sound quality challenges faced by users with their mobile devices. OEMs and MNOs may decide that the costs of improving sound quality outweigh the benefits, which could limit demand for our solutions. Users may also be satisfied with existing sound quality or blame poor quality on their MNOs’ networks. The market for our products is evolving rapidly and is technologically challenging, and our future financial performance will depend in large part on growth of this market and our ability to adapt to user, OEM and MNO demands. Our current products are primarily focused on improving the 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements sound quality of mobile devices. Consequently, we are vulnerable to fluctuations in or the absence of demand for products that improve sound quality. A number of factors could adversely affect the growth in the market or the demand for our products, including the following: • introduction of new mobile devices with different components or software that provide the same function as our products; • internally developed solutions that reduce the demand for our products; • improved wireless network technology that performs similar functions to those currently performed by our solutions; • lack of user acceptance of sound quality improvements that we may develop or our inability to timely develop product enhancements that satisfy user requirements; • OEM budgetary constraints or reduced bill of materials spending on sound quality solutions; and • OEM design constraints for sound quality solutions and tradeoffs they face in the design process. If the average selling prices of our products decrease, our revenue and gross margins could decline. Consistent with trends in the semiconductor industry, we have reduced the price of our products in the past and may do so in the future. Because of the resources available to and the broader product portfolios of many of our large, established competitors, erosion in average selling prices throughout our industry could have a larger impact on our business than on these large competitors. We may also elect to sell lower priced products to address the requirements of mobile devices with lower price points, which could cause our average selling prices, revenue and gross margins to decline. Our average selling prices and gross margins may vary substantially from period to period as a result of the mix of products we sell during any given period and the relative proportion of royalty revenue. As a result, our revenue and gross margin results in any period may fall short of investors’ and securities analysts’ expectations and our stock price may decline. If the capability of noise suppression hardware and/or software solutions offered by our competitors continues to increase, the average selling prices of our noise suppression products may decline. We may not be able to introduce additional, desired functionality into our products in a timely enough manner to prevent the price erosion of our products. If the average selling prices for our existing products decline without offsetting cost reductions and we are unable to introduce and develop significant demand for higher margin processors, we may be unable to maintain our gross margins and our revenue may decline. In addition, new products with additional functionality may have increased costs, but the selling prices for such new products may not offset such cost increases, which could reduce our gross margins. If we are unsuccessful in developing, selling or licensing new products that achieve market acceptance, our ability to attract and retain OEMs could be impaired, our competitive position could be harmed and our revenue could be reduced. We compete in a market characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changing OEM needs, evolving MNO requirements and increasing user demands. We expect technical requirements of voice and audio solutions in mobile devices to evolve rapidly. Improvements in existing technologies and applications may reduce or eliminate the need for our products or our competitors may improve their product performance. The role played by our products may also be filled by products combining voice and audio processing and other aspects of the voice and audio subsystem. Improvements in other emerging technologies, such as reduction of background noise through MNO network components, could have a similar effect. Our future growth depends on our ability to anticipate future market needs and to successfully design, develop, market and sell new products that provide increasingly higher levels of user experience, performance, functionality and reliability that meet the cost expectations of our OEMs. We may also need to expand our product portfolio to perform some of the other functions of the voice and audio subsystems in mobile devices to 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements achieve widespread market acceptance. In the event that noise suppression as a stand-alone feature is offered by competitors as a software solution or in combination with other hardware, our noise reduction products may be less attractive to OEMs. Developing our products is expensive and the development investment may involve a long payback cycle. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain and extend our competitive position. Our new products must address technological changes and evolving industry standards and may not achieve market acceptance. In the event that new products require features that we have not developed or licensed, we will be required to develop or obtain such technology through purchase, license or other arrangements. If the required technology is not available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, we may incur additional expenses in an effort to internally develop the required technology. We cannot assure you if or when the products and solutions on which we have focused our research and development expenditures will become commercially successful or generate a sufficient return. Despite our efforts to develop new and successful voice and audio processor solutions, our competitors, many of whom have greater financial and engineering resources than we do, may be able to introduce new processors and/or software solutions more quickly and at reduced selling prices than we can. If our investments in research and development do not achieve market acceptance or the desired returns in a timely manner, our ability to attract and retain OEMs could be impaired, our competitive position could be harmed and our revenue could be reduced. In addition, we may not have sufficient resources to maintain the level of investment in research and development required to remain competitive or succeed in our strategy. Our sales cycles can be long and unpredictable. Our sales efforts often require substantial time and expenses and are often more than a year in advance of the first commercial sale of the mobile devices including our products. Our sales efforts involve educating our current and prospective OEMs and MNOs about the use and benefits of our processors as compared to sound quality solutions they currently use or other solutions that are available. OEMs often undertake a significant design, evaluation and test process that can result in a lengthy sales cycle that ranges from nine to 12 months, but has, in some cases, exceeded 12 months from initial contact to the award of a design win. We spend substantial time and resources on our sales efforts without any assurance that they will result in a design win or that the mobile device will be produced at scale. The award of design wins by our current and prospective OEMs are frequently subject to bill of material constraints, multiple approvals and a variety of administrative, processing and other delays. Purchases of our processors may also occur in connection with a new product launch, which may be delayed or postponed indefinitely. Once we secure a design win, it may be up to 12 months before the OEM begins commercial production of a corresponding mobile device and we begin to generate revenue. The effect of these factors tends to be magnified in the case of substantial mobile device redesigns that are unrelated to our products. The selection processes for mobile device designs are lengthy and can require us both to incur significant design and development expenditures and dedicate significant engineering resources in pursuit of a single OEM opportunity. We may not win the competitive selection process and may never generate any revenue despite incurring significant design and development expenditures. These risks are exacerbated by the fact that some of our OEMs’ products likely will have short life cycles. Failure to obtain a design win could prevent us from supplying an entire generation of a product. This could cause us to lose revenue and require us to write off obsolete inventory and could weaken our position in future competitive selection processes. Our lengthy and uncertain sales cycles make it difficult for us to predict when OEMs may purchase and accept products from us or sell mobile phones that have integrated and enabled our licensed processor IP, may prevent us from recognizing revenue in a particular quarter and ultimately may not produce any sales. As a result, our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If we are unable to adequately control our cost of revenue, our gross margins could decrease, we may not sustain or maintain profitability and our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could suffer. The largest component of our cost of revenue is production costs of our processors. We have made, and expect to continue to make, significant efforts to reduce the cost of our processors, including but not limited to wafer costs. Our processors are fabricated by Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Ltd. (“TSMC”) and GLOBALFOUNDRIES Inc. (“GlobalFoundries”), for both which we are not a large customer. We rely on third parties, such as Signetics Corporation for assembly, packaging and test. The low volume of our orders relative to other customers at these suppliers makes it difficult for us to control the cost of the fabrication of our processors. As compared to our larger competitors, we typically do not purchase a sufficiently high volume of wafers and services to obtain the discounts that our larger competitors may be able to obtain from their foundries and other suppliers. We do not have long-term supply contracts with our suppliers. If we are unable to reduce, or maintain controls over, our cost of manufacturing relative to our selling prices, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially and adversely impacted. We may experience difficulties demonstrating the value to OEMs and MNOs of newer, higher priced products if they believe our existing products are adequate to meet user expectations regarding sound quality, which would cause our revenue to decline and negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. As we develop and introduce new solutions, we face the risk that OEMs may not understand or be willing to bear the cost of incorporating these newer solutions into their mobile devices. MNOs may also be unwilling to require OEMs to include newer sound quality solutions if they believe users are satisfied with current solutions. Transitioning OEMs and MNOs to newer generations of solutions involves a substantial amount of time educating them on the benefits provided by the newer solutions, particularly since there are currently no common objective measures or testing standards for sound quality. Regardless of the improved features or superior performance of the newer solutions, OEMs may be unwilling to adopt our new solutions as a result of design or bill of material constraints associated with their new mobile device introductions. We must also successfully manage product transition in order to minimize disruption in our OEMs’ ordering and purchasing patterns, provide timely availability of sufficient supplies of new products to meet OEM demand and avoid reductions in the demand for our existing processors. If we fail to manage the transition successfully, we may have to write down or write off excess inventory. Due to the extensive time and resources that we invest in developing new solutions, if we are unable to sell OEMs new generations of our solutions, our revenue could decline and our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be negatively impacted. We are dependent on sales of mobile devices that incorporate our voice and audio processors and our processor IP, and a decline in the demand for these mobile devices could harm our business. Since inception, our revenue has been generated from the sale of processors for mobile devices. Continued market adoption of mobile device sound quality solutions is critical to our future success. Our success is also dependent on our OEMs’ ability to successfully commercialize their mobile devices in which our solutions are incorporated. The markets for our OEMs’ mobile devices are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapid technological change. These changes result in frequent product introductions, short product life cycles and increased device convergence and capabilities. Mobile devices incorporating our solutions may not achieve market success or may become obsolete. We cannot assure you that our OEMs will dedicate the resources necessary to promote and commercialize mobile devices incorporating our solutions, successfully execute their business strategies for these mobile devices, be able to manufacture quantities sufficient to meet demand or cost effectively manufacture mobile devices at high volume. Any of these factors, as well as more general mobile device industry issues, could result in a decline in sales of mobile devices that incorporate our products. If demand for our products or our OEMs’ mobile devices were to decline, fail to continue to grow at all or in a manner consistent with expectations, our revenue would decline and our business would be harmed. 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If our voice and audio processors fail to integrate or interoperate with our OEMs’ product designs, including various system control and audio interface protocols, we may be unable to maintain or increase market segment share and we may experience reduced demand for our processors. Our products must integrate and interoperate with our OEMs’ existing and future mobile devices, including components such as baseband processors, audio codecs, microphones and software applications, each of which may have different specifications. When new or updated versions of these components, interface protocols or software applications are introduced, or if we find defects in other vendors’ or our OEMs’ software or hardware or an incompatibility or deficiency in our products, we may need to develop updated versions of our products so that they interoperate properly. We may not complete these development efforts quickly, cost effectively or at all. These development efforts may require substantial capital investment and the devotion of substantial resources. In addition, our OEMs may rely on third-party vendors to provide chipset kits for our OEMs’ use in designing their mobile devices. These chipset kits may not include our products and may include components, interface protocols or software applications that do not interoperate properly with our products. If we fail to achieve and maintain compatibility with components, interface protocols or software applications, our products may not be able to fulfill our OEMs’ requirements, or we may experience longer design win and development cycles or our solutions may be designed out of mobile devices. As a result, demand for our products may decline and we may fail to increase or maintain market segment share. We are subject to business uncertainties that make it difficult to forecast demand and production levels accurately and to have our products manufactured on a timely basis, which could interfere with our ability to deliver our processors and generate sales. Sales of our processors are generally based on purchase orders with our OEMs rather than long-term purchase commitments. As a result, it is difficult to accurately forecast OEM demand for future periods. Our primary foundry, TSMC, produces silicon wafers for other fabless semiconductor companies in volumes that are far greater than ours. We do not have supply or timing commitments from TSMC or GlobalFoundries and our production orders are typically filled on a delayed basis as production capacity becomes available between larger orders. In order to secure foundry space for the production of our processors on a timely basis and to ensure that we have sufficient inventory to meet our OEMs’ demands, we place orders with TSMC and GlobalFoundries well in advance of receipt of OEM orders. If we inaccurately forecast demand for our processors, we may have excess or inadequate inventory or incur cancellation charges or penalties. Excess inventory levels could result in unexpected charges to operations that could adversely impact our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Conversely, inadequate inventory levels could cause us to forego revenue opportunities, potentially lose market segment share and harm our OEM relationships. As we continue to introduce new products, we may need to achieve volume production rapidly. We may need to increase our wafer purchases, foundry capacity and assembly, packaging and test operations if we experience increased demand. The inability of TSMC or GlobalFoundries, as the case may be, to provide us with adequate supplies of our processors on a timely basis, or an inability to obtain adequate quantities of wafers or packages, could cause a delay in our order fulfillment and could interfere with our ability to generate revenue. We rely on a limited number of manufacturing, assembly, packaging and test, as well as logistics, contractors, in some cases single sources, and any disruption or termination of these arrangements could delay shipments of our voice and audio processors and reduce our revenue. We rely on a limited number of contractors for several key functions in producing our processors, including the processors themselves, which are primarily manufactured by TSMC and to a lesser extent by GlobalFoundries. We also rely on third parties, such as Signetics and STATSChipPAC, for assembly, packaging, testing and warehousing, and other contractors for logistics. This reliance on a limited number of contractors involves several risks, including: • capacity constraints; • price increases; 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • delivery delays; and • yield and other quality issues. If any of these contractors were to cancel or materially change their commitments to us or fail to meet the quality or delivery requirements needed to allow us to timely manufacture, assemble, package, test and deliver our processors, we could lose time-sensitive OEM orders or be forced to pay damages for the cost of replacement components, be unable to develop or sell certain processors cost effectively or on a timely basis, if at all, and experience significantly reduced revenue. In the event that it became necessary to find other contractors, transition to a new vendor could take significant time due to the technology development process and other qualification criteria for a different contractor. For example, developing a second source foundry for one of our products could require us to redesign the product to meet the specialized requirements of that foundry. Inadequate supplies of critical components, such as wafers or packages, may also impair our ability to fulfill orders in a given quarter and/or result in a decrease in our revenue. We currently rely primarily on TSMC to manufacture our processors and to a lesser extent, GlobalFoundries. Our reliance on TSMC and GlobalFoundries reduces our control over the fabrication process, exposing us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance, production costs and product supply. If we fail to manage our relationship with TSMC and GlobalFoundries effectively, or if TSMC or GlobalFoundries experiences delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or yield problems in its operations, our ability to ship products to our OEMs could be impaired and our competitive position and reputation could be harmed. We do not have a supply agreement with TSMC or GlobalFoundries and neither of them is under any obligation to continue to supply us at all or at the capacity we need. We are a relatively small customer of each of TSMC and GlobalFoundries and, in times of capacity constraint, we may not receive the capacity allocation we need. If TSMC or GlobalFoundries, as the case may be, is unwilling or unable to meet our production requirements, we would be required to engage a new foundry. Qualifying a new foundry and commencing volume production would be expensive and time consuming. While we have engaged GlobalFoundries to produce some of our products, the transfer of additional products that we currently produce at TSMC to GlobalFoundries or vice versa may require significant redesign of such processors. Any redesign may take nine months or more to complete and may involve further delays if such redesigned products do not meet our or our OEMs’ performance specifications. If we are required to change foundries or move between production lines of a particular foundry or other supplier for any reason, this could disrupt the supply of our processors and increase our costs. Disruption or termination of supplies from TSMC or GlobalFoundries and problems with yield of good die from the wafers we purchase from them could delay shipments of our products and materially and adversely affect our operating results. Production delays and quality defects are often outside of our control and are difficult to predict. Any delay of shipments or the existence of defects in our products could damage our relationships with current and prospective OEMs, increase our costs due to the time and money spent remedying the defects and reduce our revenue. If flaws in the design, production or test of our processors were to occur, we could experience a failure rate in our products that could result in substantial yield reductions, increased manufacturing costs and harm to our reputation. Even minor deviations in the manufacturing process can cause substantial manufacturing yield losses or cause halts in production. We have in the past, and may in the future, experience quality problems with the die provided by our foundries. Our foundries may not be able to detect these defects early in the fabrication process or determine the cause of such defects in a timely manner, which may affect the quality or reliability of our products. Although we have procedures in place to monitor the quality of our foundries’ processes, we cannot assure you that our efforts will be sufficient to avoid a rate of failure in our processors that results in substantial delays in shipment or significant repair or replacement costs, any of which could result in lost sales, harm to our reputation and an increase in our operating costs. Any errors or defects discovered in our products after commercial release could result in a loss of OEM business, a termination of design wins or increased warranty costs, any of which may adversely affect our 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We may also face claims for product liability and breach of warranty, including claims relating to the manner in which our products interact with other components of mobile devices produced by our OEMs. We may also be required to indemnify our OEMs for losses allegedly caused by our voice and audio solutions that are incorporated into their mobile devices. Any warranty or other rights we may have against our suppliers for yield or other quality issues caused by them may be more limited than those our OEMs have against us, based on our relative size, bargaining power or otherwise. We cannot assure you that our warranty reserves will be sufficient or either increase or decrease in future periods. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and might divert management’s attention and adversely affect the market’s perception of us and our solutions. In addition, if the amount and scope of our business liability insurance coverage proves inadequate for a claim, or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be harmed. Our voice and audio processors may fail to meet OEM or MNO specifications or may contain undetected software or hardware defects that might result in liability to us or our OEMs or MNOs, harm to our reputation, a loss of OEMs and a reduction in our revenue. Our processors are highly technical and complex. In many cases, our processors are assembled in customized packages or feature high levels of integration. Our products may fail to meet exacting OEM specifications for sound quality, performance and reliability or may contain undetected errors, defects or security vulnerabilities that could result in degradation in voice and audio data quality. Some errors in our processors may only be discovered after they have been incorporated into our OEMs’ mobile devices. Resolving these errors and defects may require a significant amount of time and resources. If our voice and audio processors fail to meet OEM or MNO specifications or contain undetected software or hardware defects, we and our OEMs or MNOs may incur liability, our reputation and relationships with our OEMs and MNOs may be harmed and our revenue and results of operations may be adversely affected. If we are unable to maintain or expand our relationships with MNOs or establish new MNO relationships, we may not be able to affect MNO demand for mobile devices that meet high sound quality specifications, which may limit our growth and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We have invested and continue to invest significant resources in working with MNOs to educate them about the impact of sound quality on the user experience in order to increase awareness of and demand for our processors. We also intend to collaborate with MNOs in new geographic markets in order to extend our geographic reach. MNOs may not value the improvements in sound quality that our products can provide. The specifications that MNOs impose on their OEMs may not be sufficiently high to differentiate our processors compared to the solutions of our competitors. MNOs may grant waivers to their sound quality specifications if individual mobile devices do not meet the specifications but provide other benefits to users. We do not have and do not expect to have any influence on whether a MNO waives compliance with its specifications. In addition, mobile device specifications and the level of control of MNOs over the mobile devices operating on their networks vary by OEM and geography. MNOs in geographic markets outside of the United States may impose sound quality specifications on their OEMs which are not as high as specifications by leading MNOs in the United States, which could reduce demand for the improvements in sound quality that our processors can provide and harm our ability to differentiate our processors from the solutions of our competitors in these markets. As a result, we may be unable to extend or maintain our geographic reach, which could limit our growth and harm our business. We do not have any long-term contracts with the MNOs we work with and these MNOs have no obligation to require the use of our products by their OEMs or to impose or enforce a certain level of sound quality specifications. If we are unable to maintain or expand our relationships with MNOs, we may not realize the potential benefits that we believe these relationships can provide. We cannot assure you that MNOs will continue to work with us to assess and evaluate their voice and audio requirements. If we are unable to maintain or expand our existing relationships with MNOs or enter into new MNO relationships, demand for our products may decline and our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our future effective income tax rates could be affected by changes in the relative mix of our operations and income among different geographic regions and by proposed and enacted U.S. federal income tax legislation, which could affect our future operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We have sought to structure our worldwide operations to take advantage of certain international tax planning opportunities and incentives. Our future effective income tax rates could be adversely affected if tax authorities in various jurisdictions challenge our international tax structure or if the relative mix of our U.S. and international income changes for any reason, or if U.S. or international tax laws were to change in the future. In particular, a majority of our revenue is generated from customers located outside the U.S. Foreign withholding taxes and U.S. income taxes have not been provided on undistributed earnings for certain non-U.S. subsidiaries because such earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. In the past, the U.S. Administration has considered initiatives such as limitations on deferral of U.S. taxation of foreign earnings, eliminating utilization or substantially reducing our ability to claim foreign tax credits and eliminating various tax deductions until foreign earnings are repatriated to the U.S., which could substantially reduce our ability to defer U.S. taxes. If any of these proposals are constituted into law, they could have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. We cannot assure you that our effective tax rate will not increase in the future. We may not be able to sustain or manage any future growth effectively. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan, sell our voice and audio solutions successfully and adequately address competitive challenges. As a result, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may suffer. In recent periods, we have significantly expanded the size and scope of our business. Our future growth prospects depend in large part on our ability to secure design wins and orders from a broader OEM base, our ability to establish and expand our relationships with key suppliers to expand our product manufacturing, assembly, packaging, test and delivery capacity and our ability to manage our growing business effectively. We have also expanded our international operations and as of December 31, 2013 had offices outside of the United States in China, India, Singapore, South Korea and Taiwan. Continued growth in our business will place significant demands on our managerial, administrative, operational, financial and other resources. Successful management of any future growth will require substantial management attention with respect to, among other things: • maintaining and expanding our relationships with OEMs and MNOs and educating and supporting their product design and quality personnel; • anticipating and meeting the technology needs of users; • continuing to expand and improve our intellectual property portfolio and making technological advances; • expanding our relationships with our foundries and assembly, packaging, test and logistics providers and entering into new relationships with additional foundries, assembly, packaging, test and logistics providers to ensure that we can produce, test and deliver sufficient processors to meet market demand; • recruiting, hiring, integrating and retaining highly skilled and motivated individuals, including research and development and sales personnel; • expanding and broadening our product development capabilities, including managing our own design center outside the United States; • accurately forecasting revenue and controlling costs; • enhancing and expanding our infrastructure; • managing inventory levels; • expanding our international operations and managing increasingly dispersed geographic locations and facilities; and 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • implementing and improving our company-wide processes and procedures to address human resource, financial reporting and financial management matters, including the implementation of an enterprise resources planning system. If we are unable to execute our growth strategy effectively or to manage any future growth we may experience, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, execute our business plan, sell our voice and audio solutions successfully, remain competitive, maintain OEM relationships or attract new OEMs. Our failure to effectively sustain or manage any future growth we do experience could result in a reduction in our revenue and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. If we are unable to attract and retain highly qualified personnel, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows would be harmed. Our future success depends on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, sales, support and management personnel. In particular, our ability to improve and maintain our technology requires talented software and hardware development engineers with specialized skills in areas such as computational auditory scene analysis algorithms, acoustic engineering, digital and analog integrated circuit design and mobile systems design and integration. If we are unable to recruit and retain these engineers, the quality and speed with which our solutions are developed would likely be seriously compromised and our reputation and business would suffer as a result. Our sales positions require candidates with specific sales and engineering backgrounds in the integrated circuit or mobile device manufacturing industries and we may be unable to locate and hire individuals with these credentials as quickly as needed, if at all. Once new sales personnel are hired, we need a reasonable amount of time to train them before they are able to effectively and efficiently perform their responsibilities. Failure to hire and retain qualified sales personnel could adversely impact our sales. Competition for these and the other personnel we require, particularly in the Silicon Valley area, is intense and we compete for these personnel with large, established publicly traded companies. We may fail to attract or retain highly qualified technical, sales, support and management personnel necessary for our business. If we are unable to attract and retain the necessary key personnel, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be harmed. We may make acquisitions in the future that could disrupt our business, cause dilution to our stockholders, reduce our financial resources and harm our business. In the future, we may acquire other businesses, products or technologies. We have not made any acquisitions to date and do not have any agreements or commitments for any specific acquisition at this time. Our ability to make and successfully integrate acquisitions is unproven. If we complete acquisitions, we may not strengthen our competitive position or achieve our goals in a timely manner, or at all, and these acquisitions may be viewed negatively by OEMs, financial markets or investors. In addition, any acquisitions we make could lead to difficulties in integrating personnel, technologies and operations from the acquired businesses and in retaining and motivating key personnel from these businesses. Acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing operations, divert management from their primary responsibilities, subject us to additional liabilities, increase our expenses and adversely impact our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Acquisitions may also reduce our cash available for operations and other uses and could result in an increase in amortization expense related to identifiable assets acquired, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, any of which could harm our business. The political and economic conditions of the countries in which we conduct business and other factors related to our international operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We have generated substantially all of our revenue from sales to CMs and OEMs that manufacture in Asia and we expect sales to such CMs and OEMs to contribute a majority of our revenue in the foreseeable future. We 28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements have sales and technical support personnel in countries other than the United States and we outsource all manufacturing, assembly, packaging and test of our processors to third parties in Asia, as well as a portion of product development to a third party in India. During 2012, we opened our own design center in India and sales and sales support operations in China. During 2013, we continued to expand our operations in these locations, and we may establish additional administrative offices in Asia and continue to add sales personnel internationally. Our international operations subject us to a variety of risks, including: • difficulties in managing and staffing international offices and increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; • the challenge of managing a development team in geographically disparate locations; • differing employment practices and labor relations issues; • difficulties in enforcing contracts, judgments and arbitration awards and collecting accounts receivable and longer payment cycles; • impediments to the flow of foreign exchange capital payments and receipts due to exchange controls instituted by certain foreign governments; • tariffs and trade barriers and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell or develop our processors in various foreign markets, threats to U.S. national security or violation of U.S. laws; • difficulties in obtaining governmental and export approvals for communications, processors and other products; • restrictions imposed by the U.S. government on our ability to do business with certain companies or in certain countries as a result of international political conflicts; • increased exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk; • burdens of complying with a wide variety of complex foreign laws and treaties and unanticipated changes in local laws and regulations, including tax laws; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and • political and economic instability. As we expand our business globally, including China, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these risks. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. If we need additional capital in the future, it may not be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in executing our business plan, maintaining and growing our existing OEM base or achieving and sustaining profitability. Failure to generate sufficient revenue, achieve planned gross margins or control operating costs may require us to raise additional capital through equity or debt financing. Such additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all and could require us to modify, delay or abandon some of our planned future expansion or expenditures or reduce some of our ongoing operating costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows and ability to achieve our intended business objectives. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership and any new securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. Additionally our existing credit facilities preclude us from entering into additional credit agreements, other than in limited circumstances. 29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Because a portion of our business is conducted outside of the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. Historically, we have paid our suppliers and sold our products in U.S. dollars. We have also historically paid our outsourced research and development services provider in U.S. dollars. As we start performing those research and development activities ourselves and have more significant non-U.S. payroll and operating expenses, we may begin to incur material expenses in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Increases in the value of these currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could increase our operating expenses. In addition, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar could increase the real cost of our products to our OEMs that produce and sell their mobile devices outside of the United States. This may increase pressure on and result in erosion of our average sales prices without any offset in our production costs if we continue to pay those expenses in U.S. dollars, which could compress our margins. Average selling price erosion, compressed margins and increased operating expenses could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. The implementation of, and enhancements to, our new ERP system could disrupt our business and adversely affect our financial results. We began the implementation of our solution for a new ERP system in the fourth quarter of 2012 and we started utilizing the new system in the second quarter of 2013. We may fail to obtain the risk mitigation benefits that the implementation is designed to produce. The implementation and enhancements may be disruptive to our operations, including the ability to report our financial results timely and accurately, timely ship and track product orders to our customers, project inventory requirements, manage our supply chain and otherwise adequately service our customers. Our business is vulnerable to interruption by events beyond our control, including earthquakes, fire, floods, disease outbreaks and other catastrophic events. Our corporate headquarters and the operations of our key OEMs, foundries and third-party contractors which we rely on for assembly, packaging, testing, warehousing and logistics are located in areas exposed to risks of natural disasters such as earthquakes and tsunamis, including the San Francisco Bay area, China, Japan, Singapore, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Our finished goods inventory of processors for many of our OEMs, including Samsung, is warehoused at a single facility located in this area, and any catastrophic loss to this facility could significantly disrupt our operations and delay shipments and revenue. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, tsunami, fire or flood, or other catastrophic event such as disease outbreak, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. In the event that any of our OEMs’ or MNOs’ information technology systems, manufacturing facilities or logistics abilities are impeded by any of these events, shipments could be delayed and we could miss key financial targets, including revenue and earnings estimates, for a particular quarter. Risks related to regulations to which we may be subject and our intellectual property Concerns over possible health and safety risks posed by mobile devices may result in the adoption of new regulations and may otherwise reduce the demand for our products and those of our OEMs. Concerns over the effects of radio frequency emissions, even if unfounded, may have the effect of discouraging the use of mobile devices, which may decrease demand for our products and those of our OEMs. In recent years, the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) and foreign regulatory agencies have updated the guidelines and methods they use for evaluating radio frequency emissions from radio equipment, including mobile phones and other mobile devices. In addition, interest groups have requested that the FCC investigate claims that wireless communications technologies pose health concerns and cause interference with airbags, 30 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements hearing aids and medical devices. Concerns have also been expressed over the possibility of safety risks due to a lack of attention associated with the use of mobile devices while driving. These concerns and any future legislation that may be adopted in response to them, could reduce demand for our products and those of our OEMs in the United States as well as other countries, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Claims of infringement against us or our OEMs could increase our expenses, disrupt our ability to sell our voice and audio solutions and reduce our revenue. The mobile communications industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks, trade secrets and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Third parties may claim that our processors or technologies infringe or misappropriate their intellectual property rights. The costs associated with any actual, pending or threatened litigation could negatively impact our operating results regardless of the actual outcome. We expect that infringement claims and misappropriation claims may increase as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and as we gain greater visibility and market exposure as a public company. We cannot assure you that we do not currently infringe or misappropriate, or that we will not in the future infringe or misappropriate, any third-party patents or other proprietary rights. For instance, because patent applications in the United States and foreign jurisdictions are typically maintained in confidence for up to 18 months after their filing or, in some cases, for the entire time prior to issuance as a U.S. patent, third parties may have earlier filed applications covering methods or other inventions that we consider our trade secrets. The limited size of our patent portfolio may not provide meaningful deterrence against third parties alleging that we infringe their patents, particularly against patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenue. Any claims of infringement or misappropriation by a third party, even those without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claims and could distract our management from our business. A party making such a claim, if successful, could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. A judgment could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from offering our processors or licensing our processor IP. In addition, we might be required to seek a license for the use of the infringed intellectual property, which might not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Alternatively, we might be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense and might ultimately be unsuccessful. Any of these events could seriously harm our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Third parties may also assert infringement claims against our OEMs. Claims against our OEMs may require us to initiate or defend potentially protracted and costly litigation on an OEM’s behalf, regardless of the merits of these claims, because we generally agree to defend and indemnify our OEMs with which we have long-term agreements from claims of infringement and misappropriation of proprietary rights of third parties based on the use or resale of our products. Other OEMs, with which we do not have formal agreements requiring us to indemnify them, may ask us to indemnify them if a claim is made as a condition to awarding future design wins to us. Because our OEMs are much larger than we are and have much greater resources than we do, they may be more likely to be the target of an infringement claim by third parties than we would be, which could increase our chances of becoming involved in a future lawsuit. If any of these claims succeeds, we might be forced to pay damages on behalf of our OEMs that could increase our expenses, disrupt our ability to sell our voice and audio solutions and reduce our revenue. A party making an infringement claim against our OEMs, if successful, could secure an injunction or other court order that could prevent our OEMs from producing or selling their mobile devices incorporating our products. Any such claims or injunction against our OEMs could seriously harm our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. The mobile device market is one in which competition is intense and OEMs attempt to defend and expand their market positions with their patent portfolios. In the event that one of our key OEMs were unable to market its products in one or more large geographic markets because of a court decision concluding that the OEM 31 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements infringed another party’s patents, our revenue would be harmed. Our OEMs or their CMs may purchase fewer of our processors than they did in the past if such OEMs are enjoined from selling the mobile devices in which our processors are incorporated in certain markets or are required to redesign such mobile devices as a result of patent litigation. We anticipate that mobile device OEMs will continue to bring and litigate patent infringement cases against each other for some time and cannot assess the impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations from these cases. It is also not uncommon for foundries, packaging providers or suppliers of other components in our processors to be involved in infringement lawsuits by or against third parties. Although some of our foundries, packaging providers or other suppliers are obligated to indemnify us in connection with infringement claims related to their intellectual property rights, these parties may contest their obligations to indemnify us, or their available assets or indemnity obligation may not be sufficient to cover our losses. Third-party intellectual property infringement claims that involve us or our suppliers may require us to alter our technologies, obtain licenses or cease certain activities. We may not be able to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, which could harm our competitive position and reduce the value of our proprietary technology. Our success depends in part on obtaining, maintaining and enforcing our patent and other proprietary rights. We rely on trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws and confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, all of which offer only limited protection. The steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information or infringement of our intellectual property rights and our ability to prevent such misappropriation or infringement is uncertain, particularly in countries outside of the United States. We do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of a patent or whether the examination process will require us to narrow our claims. As of December 31, 2013, we held 40 issued U.S. patents expiring between July 2019 and March 2033 and also had 93 U.S. patent applications pending. As of December 31, 2013, we also had 47 pending foreign patent applications and seven patents issued. Each foreign patent and foreign patent application is related to a U.S. patent or a pending U.S. patent application. Our patents may be contested, circumvented, found unenforceable or invalidated and we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing them. Moreover, the rights granted under any issued patents may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages and, as a result, our competitors may be able to copy or develop technologies similar or superior to ours. In some countries where our processors are sold or may be sold, we do not have foreign patents or pending applications corresponding to some of our U.S. patents and patent applications. Even if foreign patents are granted, effective enforcement in foreign countries may not be available. Protecting against the unauthorized use of our technology, trademarks and other proprietary rights is expensive and difficult. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, either of which could harm our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Litigation also puts our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Additionally, any enforcement of our patents or other intellectual property may provoke third parties to assert counterclaims against us. Many of our current and potential competitors have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to enforcing their intellectual property rights than we have. We may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. Patent protection outside of the United States is generally not as comprehensive as in the United States and may not protect our intellectual property in some countries where our processors are sold or may be sold in the future. Even if patents are granted outside of the United States, effective enforcement in those countries may not be available. For example, the legal regime protecting intellectual property rights in China is relatively weak and it is often difficult to create and enforce such rights. Furthermore, we have historically only filed foreign patent 32 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements applications in a limited number of countries and for only a relatively small subset of our US patent application portfolio. Even so, we may not be able to effectively protect intellectual property rights in China or elsewhere, even if patents are granted for these filed, foreign applications. Many companies have encountered substantial intellectual property infringement in countries where we sell or intend to sell processors. If such an impermissible use of our intellectual property or trade secrets were to occur, our ability to sell our processors at competitive prices and to be a leading provider of processors may be adversely affected and our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. We rely on the availability of third-party licenses. Our products include intellectual property licensed from third parties, such as certain design technology, circuits and manufacturing rights for processor cores. It may be necessary in the future to renew these licenses or obtain additional licenses. We cannot assure you that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Our failure to obtain, maintain and renew certain licenses or other rights on favorable terms, or at all, and our involvement in litigation regarding third-party intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our use of “open source” software presents risks that could have an adverse effect on our intellectual property rights and on our business. We may use software licensed for use from third-party authors under open source licenses in certain of our products. Some open source licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the type of open source software we use. If we combine our proprietary software with open source software, we could, under certain open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software to the public. This could allow our competitors to create similar products with lower development effort and in less time and result in a loss of product sales for us. It is possible that our use of open source software may trigger the foregoing requirements. Furthermore, there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. In such event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, to re-engineer our products or to discontinue the sale of our products in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and similar laws associated with our activities outside of the United States could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We face significant risks if we fail to comply with the FCPA and other anticorruption laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payment to foreign governments and political parties by us for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. In many foreign countries, particularly in countries with developing economies, it may be a local custom that businesses operating in such countries engage in business practices that are prohibited by the FCPA or other applicable laws and regulations. We cannot assure you that all of our employees and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, will not take actions in violation of our policies and applicable law and for which we may be ultimately held responsible. Any violation of the FCPA or other applicable anticorruption laws could result in severe criminal or civil sanctions and, in the case of the FCPA, suspension or debarment from U.S. government contracting, which could have a material and adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We are subject to governmental export and import controls and economic sanctions laws that could subject us to liability and impair our ability to compete in international markets. Because we incorporate U.S. origin technology into our processors, our processors are subject to U.S. export controls and may be exported or licensed outside of the United States only with the required level of export 33 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements license or through an export license exception. If a transaction involves countries, individuals or entities that are the target of U.S. or other economic sanctions, licenses or other approvals from the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control or other sanctions authorities may be required and may not be granted. Various countries regulate the importation of certain encryption technology and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our processors or license our processor IP in such countries or could limit our OEMs’ ability to sell mobile devices incorporating our processors in those countries. Changes in our processors or changes in export or import or economic sanctions regulations may create delays in the introduction of our processors in international markets, prevent our OEMs with international operations from incorporating our processors in their products or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our processors to certain countries altogether. Any change in export, import or economic sanctions regulations or related legislation, shift in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing regulations or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by these regulations could result in decreased use of our processors by, or in our decreased ability to export, license or sell our processors to, existing or potential OEMs with international operations. Failure to obtain required import or export approval for our processors or failure to comply with these regulations could result in penalties and restrictions on export privileges and could impair our ability to compete in international markets. We, our OEMs and third-party contractors are subject to increasingly complex environmental regulations and compliance with these regulations may delay or interrupt our operations and adversely affect our business. We face increasing complexity in our research and development and procurement operations as a result of requirements relating to the materials composition of many of our processors, including the European Union’s (“EU’s”) Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances Directive, which restricts the content of lead and certain other substances in specified electronic products put on the market in the EU after July 1, 2006 and similar Chinese legislation relating to marking of electronic products which became effective in March 2007. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to fines, penalties, civil or criminal sanctions and contract damage claims, which could harm our business, reputation and operating results. The passage of similar requirements in additional jurisdictions or the tightening of these standards in jurisdictions where our products are already subject to such requirements could cause us to incur significant expenditures to make our products compliant with new requirements, or could limit the markets into which we may sell our products. Other environmental regulations may require us to reengineer our processors to use components that are compatible with these regulations and this reengineering and component substitution may result in additional costs to us. Some of our operations, as well as the operations of our CMs and foundries and other suppliers, are also regulated under various other federal, state, local, foreign and international environmental laws and requirements, including those governing, among other matters, the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management, disposal, handling, use, labeling of and exposure to hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Liability under environmental laws can be joint and several and without regard to comparative fault. We cannot assure you that violations of these laws will not occur in the future, as a result of human error, accident, equipment failure or other causes. Environmental laws and regulations have increasingly become more stringent over time. We expect that our products and operations will be affected by new environmental requirements on an ongoing basis, which will likely result in additional costs, which could adversely affect our business. Our failure to comply with present and future environmental, health and safety laws could cause us to incur substantial costs, result in civil or criminal fines and penalties and decreased revenue, which could adversely affect our operating results. Failure by our foundries or other suppliers to comply with applicable environmental laws and requirements could cause disruptions and delays in our product shipments, which could adversely affect our relations with our OEMs and adversely affect our business and results of operations. As a result of efforts by us and our third-party contractors to comply with these or other future environmental laws and regulations, we could incur substantial costs, including those relating to excess component inventory, and be subject to disruptions to our operations and logistics. In addition, we will need to 34 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements procure the manufacture of compliant processors and source compliant components from suppliers. We cannot assure you that existing laws or future laws will not have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks related to the ownership of our common stock The trading prices of our common stock could be volatile due to a number of factors. The trading prices of our common stock have been highly volatile and could be highly volatile in the future due to a number of factors. For example, since our IPO, the closing sale prices of our common stock ranged from a low of $5.62 to a high of $22.36. Factors that could affect the trading price of our common stock, some of which are outside of our control, include the following: • the gain or loss of significant OEMs or other developments involving our OEMs; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • lawsuits threatened or filed against us; • actual or anticipated changes in recommendations by any securities analysts who elect to follow our common stock; • whether our operating results meet the expectations of investors or securities analysts; • our failure to receive ongoing analyst coverage; • adverse publicity and investors’ general perception of us; • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of technology companies in general and of companies in our industry; • variations in our operating results or those of our competitors or other companies perceived to be similar to us; • actual or anticipated announcements of technological innovations, new services or service improvements, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; • level of sales in a particular quarter; • changes in the estimates of our operating results; • sales of large blocks of our stock or other changes in the volume of trading in our stock; • major catastrophic events; and • adoption or modification of regulations, policies, procedures or programs applicable to our business or our OEMs. If the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry, even if these events do not directly affect us. Each of these factors, among others, could have a material adverse effect on your investment in our common stock. We are involved in securities class action litigation and may be subject to similar litigation in the future. If the outcome of this litigation is unfavorable, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. On September 13, 2012, a purported shareholder filed a class action complaint in the Superior Court of the State of California for Santa Clara County against us, the members of our board of directors, two of our executive 35 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements officers and the underwriters of our IPO. On April 3, 2013, the outside members of the board of directors and the underwriters were dismissed without prejudice. An amended complaint was filed on February 25, 2013, which purports to be brought on behalf of a class of purchasers of our common stock issued in or traceable to the IPO. The amended complaint added additional shareholder plaintiffs and contains claims under Sections 11 and 15 of the Securities Act. The amended complaint seeks, among other things, compensatory damages, rescission and attorney’s fees and costs. On March 1, 2013, we and the other defendants responded to the amended complaint by filing a demurrer moving to dismiss the amended complaint on the ground that the court lacks subject matter jurisdiction. The court overruled that demurrer. On March 27, 2013, we and the other defendants filed a demurrer moving to dismiss the amended complaint on other grounds. The court denied the demurrer on September 4, 2013. We believe that the allegations in the complaint are without merit and intend to vigorously contest the action. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our defense and we cannot currently estimate a range of any possible losses it may experience in connection with this case. Accordingly, we are unable at this time to estimate the effects of this complaint on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In the future, especially following periods of volatility in the market price of our shares, other purported class action or derivative complaints may be filed against us. The outcome of the pending and potential future litigation is difficult to predict and quantify and the defense of such claims or actions can be costly. In addition to diverting financial and management resources and general business disruption, we may suffer from adverse publicity that could harm our brand or reputation, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately held liable. A judgment or settlement that is not covered by or is significantly in excess of our insurance coverage for any claims, or our obligations to indemnify the underwriters and the individual defendants, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our management has broad discretion as to the use of our cash and might invest or spend our cash in ways that may not yield a return. Our management might not apply our cash in ways that increase the value of our common stock. We expect to use our cash for working capital and general corporate purposes, which may include acquisitions of complementary businesses, products or technologies. Our management might not be able to yield a significant return, if any, on any investment of our cash. The holders of our common stock may not have the opportunity to influence our decisions on how to use our cash. Until our cash is used, it may be placed in investments that do not produce significant income or lose value. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on any research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. A small number of securities analysts’ commenced coverage of us after the closing of our IPO. If one or more securities or industry analysts downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. For example, following our announcement in September 2012 that we believed it would be unlikely that Apple would enable our processor IP in the 2012 model of its mobile phones, securities analysts downgraded our stock and the trading price of our common stock declined significantly. If one or more of these analysts stops coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. Our actual operating results may differ significantly from our guidance and investor expectations, causing our stock price to decline. From time to time, we may release guidance in our earnings releases, earnings conference calls or otherwise, regarding our future performance that represent our management’s estimates as of the date of release. 36 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If given, this guidance, which will include forward-looking statements, will be based on projections prepared by our management. Projections are based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. The principal reason that we expect to release guidance is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. With or without our guidance, analysts and other investors may publish expectations regarding our business, financial performance and results of operations. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any such third persons. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions of the guidance furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. If our actual performance does not meet or exceed our guidance or investor expectations, the trading price of our common stock is likely to decline. We are an “emerging growth company” and our election to delay adoption of new or revised accounting standards applicable to public companies may result in our financial statements not being comparable to those of other public companies. As a result of this and other reduced disclosure and governance requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, our common stock may be less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act, and we intend to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“Section 404”), reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. In other words, an emerging growth company can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We are electing to delay such adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and as a result, we may not comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. As a result of such election, our financial statements may not be comparable to the financial statements of other public companies. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we will rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. We may take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an emerging growth company. We will remain an emerging growth company upon the earliest of (i) January 1, 2018, (ii) the first fiscal year after our annual gross revenues are $1.0 billion or more, (iii) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities or (iv) as of the end of any fiscal year in which the market value of our common stock that is held by nonaffiliates exceeds $700 million as of the end of the second quarter of that fiscal year. If we experience material weaknesses or otherwise fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting in the future, we may not be able to accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, which may adversely affect investor confidence in us and, as a result, the value of our common stock. We are required, under Section 404, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for each year beginning with the year ending December 31, 2013. This assessment includes disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting and, once we are no longer an emerging growth company as defined in the JOBS Act, an opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that results in more than a 37 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Section 404 requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, starting with the annual report that we are filing with the SEC for the year ending December 31, 2013. However, for as long as we remain an emerging growth company as defined in the JOBS Act, we intend to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404. We may take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an emerging growth company. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (i) January 1, 2018, (ii) the first fiscal year after our annual gross revenues are $1.0 billion or more, (iii) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities or (iv) as of the end of any fiscal year in which the market value of our common stock that is held by nonaffiliates exceeds $700 million as of the end of the second quarter of that fiscal year. We are in the costly and challenging process of hiring personnel, and compiling the system and process documentation necessary to perform the evaluation needed to comply with Section 404. We may not be able to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion. During the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. We cannot assure you that there will not be material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. Any failure to maintain internal control over financial reporting could severely inhibit our ability to accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. If we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, we would lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our independent auditors will not be required to attest to their effectiveness while we are an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act. If our management and our independent auditors determine we have a material weakness or significant deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in us. Failure to remedy any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, or to implement or maintain other effective control systems required of public companies, could also restrict our future access to the capital markets. We incur increased costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which could harm our operating results. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting, investor relations and other expenses, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. We also have incurred and will incur costs associated with current corporate governance requirements, including requirements under Section 404 and other provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, as amended (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), as well as rules implemented by the SEC and the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Although we may benefit from some of the disclosure and attestation deferrals for the period in which we remain an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act, we do not expect those deferrals to materially alter the costs and burdens we will experience as a public company. However, for as long as we remain an emerging growth company as defined in the JOBS Act, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We may take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an emerging growth company. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (i) January 1, 2018, (ii) the first fiscal year after our annual gross revenues are $1.0 billion or more, (iii) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year 38 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities or (iv) as of the end of any fiscal year in which the market value of our common stock that is held by nonaffiliates exceeds $700 million as of the end of the second quarter of that fiscal year. The expenses incurred by public companies for reporting and corporate governance purposes have increased dramatically over the past several years. We expect these rules and regulations to continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs substantially and to make some activities more time consuming and costly. We are currently unable to estimate these costs with any degree of certainty. Greater expenditures may be necessary in the future with the advent of new laws and regulations pertaining to public companies. If we are not able to comply with these requirements in a timely manner, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, the applicable stock exchange or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. Because the JOBS Act has only recently been enacted, it is not yet clear whether investors will accept the more limited disclosure requirements that we may be entitled to follow while we are an emerging growth company. To the extent investors are not comfortable with a more limited disclosure regime, they may not be comfortable purchasing and holding our common stock if we elect to comply with the reduced disclosure requirements. We also expect that, as a public company, it will continue to be expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. New disclosure requirements under the new provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act relating to “conflict minerals” could increase our costs and limit the supply of certain metals used in our products and affect our reputation with customers and stockholders. The Dodd-Frank Act imposes new disclosure requirements regarding the use of certain minerals and metals, known as “conflict minerals,” mined from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries in products, whether or not these products are manufactured by third parties. These new requirements require us to engage in due diligence efforts beginning in 2013 to ascertain and disclose the origin of some of the raw materials used in our products. Initial disclosures will be required no later than May 31, 2014, with subsequent disclosures required no later than May 31 of each following year. We expect to incur costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including due diligence to determine the sources of materials used in our products and other potential changes to our products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of such due diligence. The implementation of these requirements and our compliance procedures could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. As there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering “conflict free” minerals, we cannot be sure that the foundries that manufacture our products will be able to obtain sufficient quantities of materials from such suppliers or at competitive prices. Also, our reputation with our customers and our stockholders could be damaged if we determine that our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for the materials used in our products through the procedures we may implement. If we cannot guarantee that all of our products exclude conflict minerals sourced from the Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining countries, certain of our customers may discontinue or reduce purchases of our products, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Insiders have substantial control over us, which could limit your ability to influence corporate matters. As of December 31, 2013, our directors, executive officers, principal stockholders and their affiliates beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 48% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, are able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions such as a merger or other sale of our company or our assets. In addition, these stockholders, if acting together, have the ability to exercise significant influence over the management and affairs of our company. This concentration of ownership could limit your ability to influence corporate matters and might harm the market price of our common stock by: • delaying, deferring or preventing a change in corporate control; 39 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us; and • discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of us or changes in our management and therefore depress the trading price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that our stockholders may consider advantageous. These provisions: • provide that directors may only be removed for cause; • authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock that our board of directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares and to discourage a takeover attempt; • eliminate the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which has the effect of requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of stockholders; • provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us by prohibiting stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of us could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. We do not expect to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. We expect to retain all of our future earnings for use in the development of our business and for general corporate purposes. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors. In addition, our existing credit agreement precludes us from paying cash dividends. Consequently, investors may need to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 