ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock has a high degree of risk. Before making an investment in our common stock, you should carefully consider the following risks, as well as the other information contained in this annual report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Any of the risk factors described below could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business If we are unable to continue our recent revenue and earnings growth, our stock price may decline and we may not have adequate financial resources to execute our business plan. Our revenue increased 33% from $149.0 million in 2009 to $198.2 million in 2010, 31% from $198.2 million in 2010 to $260.4 million in 2011, and 20% from $260.4 to $313.5 in 2012 primarily due to strong referrals from current students, new student marketing, and the variety and affordability of our program offerings. The same factors that led to the growth in revenues also contributed to our net income improving to $42.3 million in 2012 from $40.8 million in 2011. The rate of revenue growth from 2011 to 2012 was at a slower pace than the rate of growth from 2009 to 2011. As our revenue base has grown, our growth rate percentages have declined, and it may continue to decline. You should not rely on the results of any prior periods as an indication of our future operating performance. If we are unable to maintain adequate revenue and earnings growth, or if investors react negatively to the slowing of our growth rates, the value of our stock price may decline. Our growth may place a strain on our resources that could adversely affect our systems, controls and operating efficiency. The growth that we have experienced in the past, as well as any future growth that we experience, may place a significant strain on our resources and increase demands on our management information and reporting systems and financial management controls. We do not have experience scheduling courses and administering programs for more students than our current enrollment, and if growth negatively impacts our ability to do so, the learning experience for our students could be adversely affected, resulting in a higher rate of student attrition and fewer student referrals. We also have limited experience adding to our courses, programs and operations through acquisitions. Future growth will also require continued improvement of our internal controls and systems, particularly those related to complying with federal regulations under the Higher Education Act of 1965, or the Higher Education Act, as administered by the U.S. Department of Education, including as a result of our participation in federal student financial aid programs under Title IV of the Higher Education Act, which we refer to in this annual report as Title IV programs. We have described some of the most significant regulatory risks that apply to us, including those related to Title IV programs, under the heading “Risks Related to the Regulation of our Industry” below. If we are unable to manage our growth or successfully carry out and integrate acquisitions, we may also experience operating inefficiencies that could increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability and results of operations. We have recently experienced, and may in the future experience to a greater degree, increases in our administrative and technology infrastructure expenses, our exposure to bad debt and unpredictability in enrollment. Since gaining access to Title IV programs, a significant portion of our growth is attributable to students using Title IV programs. This has led to a change in the mix of students that we serve, which has resulted, and will continue to result, in a need to provide a greater level of services to our students. Our costs and expenses have increased due in part to increased general and administrative expenses related to this shift in student mix and primarily attributable to an increase in expenditures for financial aid processing fees, expenditures for technology required to support the increase in civilian students, and increased bad debt primarily associated with our civilian students. In order to support the number of students we now have and to plan for the future, we also expect that we will make significant investments in our technology infrastructure and financial aid processing capabilities, which from time to time, will result in an increased level of spending, not all of which can be capitalized. The change in our student mix has also made it harder for us to make long range forecasts about student enrollments. We have had more difficulty forecasting the number of students who will enroll and have noticed a decrease in the predictability of the rate at which we convert leads into enrolled students, which we attribute, in part, to the growth in civilian students, and particularly the growth in civilian students from outside of public service communities. If we are unable to manage changes in the composition of our student body and control the growth of related expenditures, we may experience operating inefficiencies that could increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability and results of operations. The ability of military students to enroll in our courses can be impacted by factors that we do not anticipate, which can impact our registrations and make it more difficult for us to accurately forecast expected enrollment. Beginning with registrations for the third quarter of 2010, we observed that for a period of time the growth of our net course registrations from active duty military students slowed more than we expected. We do not know all of the factors that caused this to occur. We believe that the changes we saw in net course registrations from active duty military students were in part due to increased operations activity and overseas deployments across all branches of the US military, particularly the level of activity in the United States Marine Corps. We believe that increased demands on many active duty military personnel, combined with limited internet access associated with some deployments, impacted the ability of certain active duty military students to pursue higher education in 2010. Due to the variability of military activity and other factors over which we have no control, the difficulty in predicting military enrollments that we encountered in 2010 could continue in the future or become more pronounced. In addition, over the next several years the number of active and reserve military professionals is likely to decrease if, as proposed, the military downsizes its forces incrementally. Any decline in the enrollments, or decline in the growth of enrollments, from active duty military students could have an adverse impact on our total net course registrations and revenues. Tuition assistance programs offered to United States Armed Forces personnel constituted 38% of our adjusted net course registrations for 2012, and our revenues and number of students would decrease if we are no longer able to receive funds under these tuition assistance programs or tuition assistance is reduced or eliminated. Service members of the United States Armed Forces are eligible to receive tuition assistance from their branch of the armed forces that they may use to pursue postsecondary degrees. Service members of the United States Armed Forces can use tuition assistance at postsecondary schools that are accredited by accrediting agencies recognized by the U.S. Secretary of Education and that sign a Memorandum of Understanding with the Department of Defense. We rely for a significant portion of our revenues on the tuition assistance programs offered to United States Armed Forces personnel. Our tuition is currently structured so that tuition assistance payments for service members fully cover the service member’s per course tuition cost of our undergraduate courses and cover more than 75% of the per course tuition cost of our graduate courses. If we are no longer able to receive tuition assistance payments or the tuition assistance program is reduced or eliminated, our enrollments and revenues would be significantly reduced resulting in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A recent congressional investigation of DoD tuition assistance programs used for distance education and proprietary institutions and a DoD rulemaking that increases oversight of educational programs offered to active service members could result in legislation that limits in whole or in part our participation in the tuition assistance program. In January 2012, Senators Harkin and Durbin introduced legislation that would modify the Higher Education Act’s 90/10 Rule. Under the Higher Education Act, a proprietary institution is prohibited from deriving from Title IV funds, on a cash accounting basis (except for certain institutional loans) for any fiscal year, more than 90% of its revenues (as computed for 90/10 Rule purposes). An institution that derives more than 90% of its cash-basis revenue from Title IV programs for two consecutive fiscal years will be ineligible to participate in Title IV programs for at least two fiscal years. The proposed legislation would decrease the limit to 85% and would count DoD tuition assistance and veterans' education benefits toward that limit. In February 2012, companion bills were introduced in the U.S. Senate and U.S. House of Representatives that would modify the 90/10 Rule to count DoD tuition assistance and veterans' educations benefits toward the 90% limit, along with Title IV programs. Although these changes alone would not have caused American Public University System, or APUS, to be in violation of the rule based upon 2012 revenues, they would reduce the margin of compliance and make APUS more vulnerable to changes in its revenue sources. These changes would also likely reduce competition in the market for military students utilizing DoD tuition assistance and veterans' educations benefits, which may increase the percentage of our student body comprised by such students, increasing the possibility of our non-compliance with the 90/10 Rule, if modified by these proposed changes. See “Risks Related to the Regulation of our Industry” for additional information on these developments. In October 2011, the Marine Corps announced, and later rescinded, new tuition assistance rules that cut the maximum benefit for its service members from $4,500 per year to $875 per year and reduced the tuition assistance from $250 per credit hour to $175 per credit hour. Although undergraduate tuition assistance levels have been restored to their prior levels with retroactive benefits to affected service members, the Marine Corps has warned that the current levels of funding are not sustainable. The Marine Corps did reduce graduate level tuition assistance from $350 per credit hour to $250 per credit hour, which is consistent with the current tuition assistance payments from the other military services. We anticipate that the other services will also consider potential changes to the tuition assistance program. DoD is required to submit a report to the Senate and House Armed Services Committees on how to increase the efficiency of tuition assistance program funding, including the impact of changing the program to require service members to pay 25% of their expenses. The report was due June 20, 2012, but has not been published. In addition, in October 2011, DoD announced that while it will maintain the current levels of tuition assistance in the near term, it plans to consider changes as part of a holistic review of the military compensation package. We believe modifications to the tuition assistance program may include a reduced per credit tuition benefit (currently $250), a decrease in the annual cap (currently $4,500), and/or require that service members pay out-of-pocket for a portion of their tuition, among other possible changes. If tuition assistance payments are reduced, we believe that most service members would be eligible and able to finance out-of-pocket tuition costs resulting from this shortfall using their “Top Up” benefits under the GI Bills, which allow service members to use a portion of their GI Bill benefits while still on active duty. However, we do not know whether in the long-term service members would be willing to use the Top-Up option, or whether the increased administrative process in using the Top-Up option or covering the shortfall through other funding sources would lead to service members deciding not to enroll or enrolling at a slower rate. We are not able to estimate the effect of future expected changes to the tuition assistance programs or whether the services would impose other criteria in addition to the level of reimbursement that would impact enrollments from service members. We are also not able to estimate the response that our competitors would take to reduced tuition assistance payments or the willingness of service members to use their Top-Up option available to them under their veterans' benefits. In this regard, our competitors, particularly those with larger student populations or a smaller concentration of students from the military, may be better situated to lower the cost of tuition to service members. If we are no longer able to receive tuition assistance payments or the tuition assistance program is reduced or eliminated, our enrollments and revenues could be significantly reduced, which would result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Implementation of Executive Orders by federal agencies may impose additional regulatory burdens upon us and negatively affect our business or results of operations. On April 27, 2012, President Obama issued an Executive Order, which we refer to as the EO, that directs the Departments of Defense, Veterans Affairs, and Education to establish “Principles of Excellence to strengthen oversight, enforcement, and accountability”, which we refer to as the Principles, in connection with the Post-9/11 GI Bill and the DoD tuition assistance program. The EO requires the Principles to apply to all education institutions that receive funding from military and veterans' education benefits programs, and it does not distinguish among not-for-profit, public, and for-profit institutions. The Principles include, for example, disclosure obligations related to program costs, student aid eligibility, estimated loan debt, student outcomes, and education plans, and a prohibition on “fraudulent and aggressive recruiting techniques” on and off military installations. The agencies must implement the Principles through various actions, and within 90 days after the date of the EO they must report to the President their progress, including in terms of revisions to regulations, guidance documents, memoranda of understanding, and other policies related to the Post-9/11 GI Bill and Department of Defense tuition assistance. In addition, among other action, the Departments of Defense, Veterans Affairs, and Education are directed to develop a comprehensive strategy to establish service member and veteran student outcome measures that are comparable, to the maximum extent practicable, across military and veterans education benefit programs, and the Department of Education must collect from institutions and publish information on the amount of funding institutions receive from the Post-9/11 GI Bill and the DoD tuition assistance program. The EO also contains requirements related to enforcement of and compliance related to the Principles, including, for example, development of complaint systems and establishment of procedures for program reviews. Because a significant portion of our students use funding from military and veterans benefits programs, any actions that these agencies take could have a significant impact on our business. The Department of Veterans Affairs requested that each education institution state, by electronic mail sent by August 1, 2012, its intent to comply with the Principles. We notified the Department of Veterans Affairs that APUS intends to make a good faith effort to comply with EO, subject to clarifying guidance and interpretation by the Departments of Defense, Veteran Affairs, Education and/or the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. On July 13, 2012, the Department of Education issued guidance on each Principle's meaning. The EO requires the Secretaries of Defense and Veterans Affairs, in consultation with the Secretary of Education and the Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, to submit a plan to strengthen enforcement and compliance related to the Principles before the end of July 2012. Such plan has not been published. We do not know what further actions the Departments of Defense, Veterans Affairs, and Education will take to implement the Principles. Strong competition in the postsecondary education market, especially in the online education market, could decrease our market share and increase our cost of acquiring students. Postsecondary education is highly fragmented and competitive. We compete with traditional public and private two-year and four-year colleges as well as other for-profit schools, particularly those that offer online learning programs. Public and private colleges and universities, as well as other for-profit schools, offer programs similar to those we offer. Public institutions receive substantial government subsidies, and public and private institutions have access to government and foundation grants, tax-deductible contributions and other financial resources generally not available to for-profit schools. Accordingly, public and private institutions may have access to resources that are superior to those in the for-profit sector. In addition, some of our competitors, including both traditional colleges and universities and other for-profit schools, have substantially greater name recognition and financial and other resources than we have, which may enable them to compete more effectively for potential students, particularly in the non-military sector of the market. In the military sector of the market, we believe that for-profit schools may increasingly be seeking to attract military students, including because these schools may see it as helpful in their efforts to comply with the 90/10 Rule, as currently DoD tuition assistance and veterans' education benefits do not count towards the 90% limit. We expect to face increased competition as a result of new entrants to the online education market, including established colleges and universities that have not previously offered online education programs. We are also continuing to see increasing differentiation between the way in which our competitors are delivering online offerings, which impacts the ability to attract students, facilitate access to education and provide convenience to learners. We believe that in the future many online students will be attracted to institutions in part because of the technology that the institutions offer and the way in which that technology facilitates access to education and learning. In addition, we face new competition from various emerging non-traditional, credit-bearing and non-credit-bearing education programs, provided by proprietary, not-for-profit and public providers, including massive open online courses offered worldwide without charge by traditional educational institutions and other direct-to-consumer education services, as well as other offerings at low costs to students. These emerging non-traditional programs could also lead to fundamental changes in the way in which higher education is delivered and recognized and the value that is placed on a traditional degree of the type we offer. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors and may face competitive pressures that could adversely affect our business or results of operations. We may also face increased competition if our competitors pursue relationships with the military and governmental educational programs with which we already have relationships. These competitive factors could cause our enrollments, revenues and profitability to decrease significantly. If we are unable to update and expand the content of existing programs and develop new programs and specializations on a timely basis and in a cost-effective manner, our future growth may be impaired. The updates and expansions of our existing programs and the development of new programs and specializations may not be accepted by existing or prospective students or employers. If we cannot respond to changes in market requirements, our business may be adversely affected. Even if we are able to develop acceptable new programs, we may not be able to introduce these new programs as quickly as students require or as quickly as our competitors introduce competing programs. To offer a new academic program, we may be required to obtain appropriate federal, state and accrediting agency approvals, which may be conditioned or delayed in a manner that could significantly affect our growth plans. On June 30, 2012, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia vacated the regulations requiring the U.S. Department of Education to receive notice of (and possibly approve) any new program that prepares students for gainful employment, which for APUS includes most of its programs. However, pre-existing regulations require institutions to obtain Department of Education approval for new programs under certain circumstances, and it is unclear whether the Department of Education will repromulgate the vacated regulation in a form that can withstand challenge. See “Risks Related to the Regulation of our Industry” for additional information on program approval requirements. If we are unable to respond adequately to changes in market requirements due to financial constraints, regulatory limitations or other factors, our ability to attract and retain students could be impaired and our financial results could suffer. Establishing new academic programs or modifying existing programs requires us to make investments in management, incur marketing expenses and reallocate other resources. We may have limited experience with the courses in new areas and may need to modify our systems and strategy or enter into arrangements with other institutions to provide new programs effectively and profitably. If we are unable to increase the number of students, or offer new programs in a cost-effective manner, or are otherwise unable to manage effectively the operations of newly established academic programs, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. If we do not have adequate continued personal referrals and marketing and advertising programs that are effective in developing awareness among, attracting and retaining new students, our financial performance in the future would suffer. Building awareness of AMU and APU and the programs we offer among potential students is critical to our ability to attract new students. In order to maintain and increase our revenues and profits, we must continue to attract new students in a cost-effective manner and these students must remain active in our programs. In addition, because we experience declines in our student population as a result of graduation, transfers to other academic institutions, military deployments and other reasons, in order to grow we need to first attract sufficient students to replace those that have left AMU or APU. Beginning in 2009 and continuing into 2012, we increased the amounts spent on marketing and advertising, and we anticipate this trend to continue, particularly as a result of our attempts to attract and retain students from non-military market sectors. We use marketing tools such as the Internet, exhibits at conferences, and print media advertising to promote our schools and programs, and we also began using more traditional media advertising beginning in 2011 and continuing through 2012. Additionally, we rely on the general reputation of AMU and APU and referrals from current students, alumni and educational service officers in the United States Armed Forces as a source of new students. Some of the factors that could prevent us from successfully advertising and marketing our programs and from successfully enrolling and retaining students in our programs include: ● the emergence of more successful competitors and tuition-free or other low-cost courses; ● factors related to our marketing, including the costs of Internet advertising and broad-based branding campaigns; ● limits on our ability to attract and retain effective employees because of the new incentive payment rule (see “Risks Related to the Regulation of our Industry”); ● performance problems with our online systems; ● failure to maintain accreditation; ● student dissatisfaction with our services and programs; ● failure to develop a message or image that resonates well within non-military sectors of the market; ● adverse publicity regarding us, our competitors or online or for-profit education generally; ● adverse developments in our relationship with military educational service officers; ● a decline in the acceptance of online education; and ● a decrease in the perceived or actual economic benefits that students derive from our programs. On January 10, 2013, the President signed Improving Transparency of Education Opportunities for Veterans Act, which requires the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs to develop a policy to improve outreach and transparency to service members and veterans by providing information about institutions of higher education, including a centralized mechanism to publish feedback from students and state approving agencies about each institution's quality of instruction, recruiting practices, and placement of graduates. Although the law permits us to verify the feedback and address any issues that we might identify with such feedback before it is published, it is unclear whether the feedback's substance or presentation will negatively affect our ability to attract and retain students. The Department of Veterans Affairs may promulgate regulations to implement the provisions. In addition, the Department of Education began publishing a “College Scorecard” on February 13, 2013, which allows students to compare institutions based on data such as potential earnings and average student-loan debt. It is unclear how students will use this tool, and whether it will negatively affect our ability to attract and retain students. To continue to grow our enrollment, we expect to continue to increase the amounts that we spend on marketing and advertising as our historical approach to marketing and advertising may not be able to sustain meaningful growth rates. However, because we are smaller than most of our competitors and because our tuition is generally lower, we have fewer funds available to spend on marketing and advertising than they do. Furthermore, our success using marketing approaches that are relatively new to us has led to students that we believe do not perform as well as the students that our historical approach has attained. Accordingly, we may find it increasingly difficult to continue to compete and grow our enrollments. If we are unable to continue to develop awareness of AMU and APU and the programs we offer, and to enroll and retain students in both military and non-military market sectors, our enrollments would suffer and our ability to increase revenues and maintain profitability would be significantly impaired. We have limited experience in making investments in other entities, and any such investments may not result in strategic benefits for us or could expose us to other risks. In 2012, we made an investment in NWHW Holdings, Inc., or NWHW Holdings, that is intended to result in certain strategic benefits to the Company. To assist us in achieving elements of our growth strategy or to further develop our business capabilities, from time to time we will consider and may pursue strategic investments and acquisitions. This could include, among other things, investments in, partnerships or joint ventures with, or the acquisition of other schools, service providers or education technology related companies, among other types of entities. Historically, however, we have not made debt or equity investments in other entities, and investing in another entity requires expertise in evaluating another entity's business and identifying strategic benefits of a potential investment in such entity, among other expertise. These types of investments involve significant challenges and risks including that the investment does not advance our business strategy, that it has an adverse effect on our results of operations, that we do not realize a satisfactory return on our investment, that we acquire unknown liabilities, or that management's attention is diverted from our core business. These events could harm our operating results or financial condition. Any investments in other entities may also subject us to the operating and financial risks of such entities, and we rely on the internal controls and financial reporting controls of such entities. Investments in other entities in which we do not have sole control, such as our investment in NWHW Holdings, present additional risks. In a minority investment, we would not have the ability to control the policies, management or affairs of the entity in which we would be investing. The interests of persons who control these entities may differ from our interests, and they may cause such entities to take actions that are not in our best interest, and we may become involved in disputes with such persons. Our inability to control entities in which we may make investments could negatively affect our ability to realize the strategic benefits of a non-controlling investment. System disruptions and security breaches to our online computer networks could negatively impact our ability to generate revenue and damage our reputation, limiting our ability to attract and retain students. The performance and reliability of our technology infrastructure is critical to our reputation and ability to attract and retain students. Any system error or failure, or a sudden and significant increase in bandwidth usage, could result in the unavailability of our online classroom, damaging our ability to generate revenue. Our technology infrastructure could be vulnerable to interruption or malfunction due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters, terrorist activities and telecommunications failures. Our systems, particularly those related to Partnership At a Distance™, or PAD, have been predominantly developed in-house, with limited support from outside vendors. We are continuously working on upgrades to PAD, and our employees continue to devote substantial time to its development. To the extent that we face problems with the PAD system, we may not have the capacity to address the problems with our internal capability, and we may not be able to identify outside contractors with expertise relevant to our custom system. Any computer system error or failure, regardless of cause, could result in a substantial outage that materially disrupts our operations. Not all of our critical systems are protected by a validated formal disaster recovery plan and redundant disaster recovery infrastructure at a geographically remote data center. We are currently executing our plan to implement disaster recovery infrastructure for our remaining critical systems to allow timely recovery from catastrophic failure. For those systems not yet protected, a catastrophic failure or unavailability for any reason of our principal data center may require us to replicate the function of this data center at our existing remote data facility or elsewhere, and could result in the loss of data. An event such as this may require service restoration activities that could take up to several weeks to complete. Any failure of our online classroom system could also prevent students from accessing their courses. Any interruption to our technology infrastructure could have a material adverse effect on our ability to attract and retain students and could require us to incur additional expenses to correct or mitigate the interruption. Our computer networks may also be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses and other security problems. A user who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information, personal information about our students or cause interruptions or malfunctions in operations. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. We engage multiple security assessment providers on a periodic basis to review and assess our security. We utilize this information to audit ourselves to ensure that we are continually monitoring the security of our technology infrastructure. However, we cannot assure you that these security assessments and audits will protect our computer networks against the threat of security breaches. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We maintain a limited amount of business disruption insurance that may cover certain types of disruptions. However, there can be no assurance that insurance proceeds, if available, would be adequate to compensate us for damages sustained due to these disruptions. System disruptions to our online classroom and technology infrastructure could negatively impact our ability to generate revenue and damage our reputation, limiting our ability to attract and retain students. Historically, our online classroom employed the Educator™ learning management system pursuant to a license from Ucompass.com, Inc. We determined that it was in our long-term best interest to transition to a new online classroom that allows us to integrate additional technologies and resources, and in 2010 we began the migration to the Sakai Collaboration and Learning Environment (CLE), an open-source Learning Management System, as the foundational software for our online classroom. Our online classroom is central to our operations, and the process of switching to Sakai CLE was complicated and time consuming, involving customization and integration with the rest of our technology infrastructure. The migration was completed in early September 2011. Shortly after the completion of the migration, we experienced periods of unplanned downtime in our online classroom during periods of peak utilization. We believe that in mid-October 2011 we identified the cause of this downtime and took appropriate steps to mitigate the problem. However, we cannot be certain that similar problems will not occur in the future. While there are reportedly more than 350 educational institutions around the world using Sakai CLE to support teaching, learning, research and collaboration, we believe that of the institutions using Sakai CLE, very few, if any, have a larger number of concurrent users than we do. This means that there are a limited number of other institutions with whom we can compare best practices for use in similar circumstances to ours. Furthermore, to the extent that we face problems with the online classroom in the future, we may not have the ability to address the problems adequately with internal resources, particularly given our limited history using the software, and we may not be able to identify outside contractors with expertise relevant to our customized system. The performance and reliability of our online classroom and technology infrastructure is critical to our reputation and ability to attract and retain students. Any system error or failure, or a sudden and significant increase in bandwidth usage, could result in the unavailability of our online classroom, preventing students from accessing their courses and damaging our ability to generate revenue. Any significant or ongoing interruption to our technology infrastructure could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and could require us to incur additional expenses to correct or mitigate the interruption. Any of the foregoing problems could result in an adverse impact on our operations, damage to our reputation and limits on our ability to attract and retain students. The personal information that we collect may be vulnerable to breach, theft or loss that could adversely affect our reputation and operations. Possession and use of personal information in our operations subjects us to risks and costs that could harm our business. We collect, use and retain large amounts of personal information regarding our students and their families, including social security numbers, tax return information, personal and family financial data and credit card numbers. Also, we collect and maintain personal information of our employees in the ordinary course of our business. Some of this personal information is held and managed by certain of our vendors. Although we use security and business controls to limit access and use of personal information, a third party may be able to circumvent those security and business controls, which could result in a breach of student or employee privacy. In addition, errors in the storage, use or transmission of personal information could result in a breach of student or employee privacy, and the increased availability and use of mobile data devices by our employees and students increases the risk of unintentional disclosure of personal information. Possession and use of personal information in our operations also subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that could require notification of data breaches and restrict our use of personal information. We cannot ensure that a breach, loss or theft of personal information will not occur. A breach, theft or loss of personal information regarding our students and their families or our employees that is held by us or our vendors could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and results of operations and result in liability under state and federal privacy statutes and legal actions by state attorneys, general and private litigants, and any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Future growth or increased technology demands will require continued investment of capital, time and resources to develop and update our technology and if we are unable to increase the capacity of our resources appropriately, our ability to handle growth, our ability to attract or retain students and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our rate of growth and expectations for the future require us to increase the capacity and capabilities of our technology infrastructure. Increasing the capacity and capabilities of our technology infrastructure will require us to invest capital, time and resources, which we expect from time to time will lead to increased spending on technology infrastructure. There is no assurance that even with sufficient investment our systems will be scalable to accommodate future growth. We may also need to invest capital, time and resources to update our technology in response to competitive pressures or changes in the marketplace, including the technological preferences of our students and prospective students. For example, students and prospective students seeking to access our online classroom and related administrative infrastructure through devices such as tablets and mobile telephones, rather than traditional desktop and laptop computers, may find our interface difficult to navigate or inoperable in whole or part. As a result, prospective students may be discouraged from enrolling in our courses, and current students may be discouraged from completing academic and administrative tasks without assistance. Even with sufficient investment, our resources may become impaired or obsolete. . If we are unable to increase the capacity of our resources or update our resources appropriately, our ability to handle growth, our ability to attract or retain students, and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Similarly, even if we are able to increase the capacity of our resources and update our resources appropriately, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by an increased level of spending. The loss of any key member of our management team may impair our ability to operate effectively and may harm our business. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. The loss of one or more members of our management team could harm our business. Except for the employment agreements we have with Dr. Boston, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Powell, our Executive Vice President and Provost, Dr. van Wyk, our Executive Vice President and Chief Operations Officer, and Mr. Wilkins, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, we do not have employment agreements with any of our other executive officers or key personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain management, faculty, administrators and skilled personnel, our business and growth prospects could be severely harmed. To execute our growth strategy, we must attract and retain highly qualified management, faculty, administrators and skilled personnel. Competition for hiring these individuals is intense, especially with regard to faculty in specialized areas. Our growth places constant demands on us to find qualified individuals across all levels of our institution from our most senior managers down throughout the organization. If we fail to attract new management, faculty, administrators or skilled personnel or fail to retain and motivate our existing management, faculty, administrators and skilled personnel, our business and growth prospects could be severely harmed. If we fail to maintain adequate systems and processes to detect and prevent fraudulent activity in student enrollment and financial aid, we may lose our ability to participate in Title IV programs or Department of Defense tuition assistance programs or have our participation in the Title IV programs conditioned or limited. We have been the target of fraudulent activity by outside parties with respect to student enrollment and student financial aid programs, and as we continue to grow we may be susceptible to an increased risk of such activities. The potential for outside parties to perpetrate fraud in connection with the award and disbursement of Title IV program funds by APUS, including as a result of identity theft, may be heightened due to our nature as an online education provider and our relatively low tuition. We must maintain systems and processes to identify and prevent fraudulent applications for enrollment and financial aid. We cannot be certain that our systems and processes will continue to be adequate in the face of increasingly sophisticated fraud schemes or that we will be able to expand such systems and processes at a pace consistent with our growth. Grants and loans to students under the federal government’s Title IV programs are primarily awarded on the basis of financial need, generally defined as the difference between the cost of attending the institution and the amount a student can be expected to contribute to that cost. In order to account for living expenses and other costs that our students may reasonably incur in the context of pursuing a degree or certificate, the cost of attending APUS is an amount that exceeds the cost of our tuition. While some students elect to receive grants and loans that cover only the cost of tuition, others elect to receive amounts up to the full cost of attendance. When APUS receives Title IV funds from the federal government on a student’s behalf, it credits those funds to the student’s account. If a student has elected to receive funds in excess of the cost of tuition and fees, a Title IV credit balance occurs, and APUS must pay that credit balance to the student unless the student has authorized APUS to hold the credit balance or take other permissible action with respect to the credit balance. The availability of Title IV funds, including the Title IV credit balance payment, is an important part of enabling some students to pursue a degree or certificate. However, some individuals seek to take advantage of the availability of Title IV funds by enrolling for the purpose of obtaining such funds. On September 26, 2011, the Department of Education’s Inspector General released a report about an increasing number of cases involving large, loosely affiliated groups of individuals, so-called “fraud rings”, who conspire to defraud the Title IV programs through enrollment in distance education programs. These fraud rings are taking advantage of the availability of Title IV credit balance payments where the cost of attendance exceeds the cost of tuition and fees. We have been the target of fraudulent activity by individuals and groups with respect to student enrollment and the Title IV programs, and given our continued growth and status as an online education provider and our relatively low tuition, we believe that we will increasingly be subject to such activities. We must maintain systems and processes to identify and prevent fraudulent applications for enrollment and Title IV aid. We cannot be certain that our systems and processes will be adequate in the face of increasing and increasingly sophisticated fraud schemes or that we will be able to expand such systems and processes at a pace consistent with our growth. In addition to those who enroll or attempt to enroll solely to obtain Title IV funds, some students who might not otherwise pursue a degree or certificate are attracted to enroll because of the availability of Title IV funds and economic hardships resulting from today’s economic climate. We believe these students may be more likely than other students to cease pursuing a degree or certificate due to other factors, such as becoming employed or not having the level of commitment necessary to complete successfully the required coursework. As a result of all of the above factors, the growth in our enrollments reflects some students who will not persist as students. We have also been the target of fraudulent activities by outside parties with respect to student enrollment and Title IV programs, and as we continue to grow, we may be susceptible to an increase of such activities. We are not able to estimate the number of students who fall into these enrollment categories, and we are not able to estimate the impact on our enrollments over time, or any additional impact that this could have on our exposure to bad debt or the number of our students who default on their Title IV student loans. The Department of Education requires institutions that participate in Title IV programs to refer to the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Education credible information about fraud or other illegal conduct involving Title IV programs, and in the past we have referred to the Office of the Inspector General information with respect to potential fraud by applicants. If the systems and processes that we have established to detect and prevent fraud are inadequate, or our cohort default rates exceed specified levels or we otherwise do not have procedures in place for safeguarding federal funds, the Department of Education may find that we do not satisfy its “administrative capability” requirements. This could result in our being limited in our access to, or our losing, Title IV program funding, which would limit our potential for growth outside the military sector and adversely affect our enrollment, revenues, and results of operations. In addition, our ability to participate in Title IV programs and the tuition assistance programs of the United States Armed Forces is conditioned on our maintaining accreditation by an accrediting agency that is recognized by the Secretary of Education. Any significant failure to detect adequately fraudulent activity related to student enrollment and financial aid could cause us to fail to meet our accrediting agencies’ standards. Furthermore, under the Higher Education Opportunity Act, accrediting agencies that evaluate institutions that offer distance learning programs like ours must require such institutions to have processes through which the institution establishes that a student who registers for a distance education program is the same student who participates in and receives credit for the program. Failure to meet our accrediting agencies’ standards could result in the loss of accreditation at the discretion of our accrediting agencies, which could result in a loss of our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs and the tuition assistance programs of the United States Armed Forces. On April 25, 2012, the Department of Education announced that it would publish a notice regarding its intent to establish a negotiated rulemaking committee to prepare proposed regulations for the Title IV programs. The announcement states that the Department of Education intends to develop proposed regulations designed to prevent fraud and otherwise ensure proper use of Title IV program funds, and to improve and streamline the campus-based Title IV programs. The announcement states that the Department of Education is considering regulatory changes related to the disbursement of Title IV program funds, particularly electronic funds transfers made directly to a student's bank account and available to the student via debit or another bank-provided card. The Department of Education held two public hearings in May 2012. Negotiations were expected to begin in 2012 but to date the Department of Education has not announced negotiated rulemaking teams or a negotiated rulemaking schedule. New regulations could affect the manner in which we do business, increase our cost of doing business, or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The protection of our operations through exclusive proprietary rights and intellectual property is limited, and we encounter disputes from time to time relating to our use of intellectual property of third parties, any of which could harm our operations and prospects. In the ordinary course of our business, we develop intellectual property of many kinds that is or will be the subject of copyright, trademark, service mark, patent, trade secret, or other protections. This intellectual property includes but is not limited to course materials, business know-how, software and internal processes and procedures developed to respond to the requirements of operating and various education regulatory agencies. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, domain names, agreements, and registrations to protect our intellectual property. We rely on service mark and trademark protection in the United States and select foreign jurisdictions to protect our rights to various marks, including “AMERICAN MILITARY UNIVERSITY,” “AMERICAN PUBLIC UNIVERSITY,” “AMERICAN PUBLIC UNIVERSITY SYSTEM,” "Ready when you are." "RESPECTED. AFFORDABLE. ONLINE." and “EDUCATING THOSE WHO SERVE,” as well as distinctive logos and other marks associated with our services. We rely on agreements under which we obtain rights to use course content developed by faculty members and other third party content experts. We cannot assure you that the measures that we take will be adequate or that we have secured, or will be able to secure, appropriate protections for all of our proprietary rights in the United States or select foreign jurisdictions, or that third parties will not infringe upon or violate our proprietary rights. Despite our efforts to protect these rights, unauthorized third parties may attempt to duplicate or copy the proprietary aspects of our curricula, online resource material, other content, software and technology, and offer competing programs and/or services to ours. In particular, third parties may attempt to develop competing programs or services or duplicate or copy aspects of our curriculum, online resource material, quality management, systems and other proprietary content. Any such attempt, if successful, could adversely affect our business. Protecting these types of intellectual property rights can be difficult, particularly as it relates to the development by our competitors of competing courses and programs. In July 2011, a complaint for a declaratory judgment was commenced against us seeking a judicial declaration that the plaintiff did not infringe certain of our trademark rights. While we believe that matter was favorably resolved because the third party ceased to use certain marks, we cannot be certain that other third parties will not infringe our trademark or other intellectual property rights in the future or that the rights we believe that we have to our significant trademarks and other intellectual property rights will be found to be enforceable. We may encounter disputes from time to time over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property, and we may not prevail in these disputes. We believe that some third parties are becoming more aggressive in pursuing enforcement of their intellectual property portfolios, and these third parties or others may raise a claim against us alleging an infringement or violation of the intellectual property of that third party. In July 2006, we settled a dispute with another institution regarding the use of certain marks that allowed us to continue to use the marks at issue, but we may not be able to favorably resolve future disputes. Some third party intellectual property rights may be extremely broad, and it may not be possible for us to conduct our operations in such a way as to avoid those intellectual property rights. Any such intellectual property claim could subject us to costly litigation and impose a significant strain on our financial resources and management personnel regardless of whether such claim has merit. Our general liability and cyber liability insurance may not cover potential claims of this type adequately or at all, and we may be required to alter the content of our classes or pay monetary damages, which may be significant. We may incur liability for the unauthorized duplication or distribution of class materials posted online for class discussions. In some instances, our faculty members or our students may post various articles or other third party content on class discussion boards. We may incur liability for the unauthorized duplication or distribution of this material posted online for class discussions. Third parties may raise claims against us for the unauthorized duplication of this material. Any such claims could subject us to costly litigation and impose a significant strain on our financial resources and management personnel regardless of whether the claims have merit. Our faculty members or students could also post classified material on class discussion boards, which could expose us to civil and criminal liability and harm our reputation and relationships with members of the military and government. Our general liability insurance may not cover potential claims of this type adequately or at all, and we may be required to alter the content of our courses or pay monetary damages. Because we are an exclusively online provider of education, we are entirely dependent on continued growth and acceptance of exclusively online education and, if the recognition by students and employers of the value of online education does not continue to grow, our ability to grow our business could be adversely impacted. We believe that continued growth in online education will be largely dependent on additional students and employers recognizing the value of degrees from online institutions. If students and employers are not convinced that online schools are an acceptable alternative to traditional schools or that an online education provides value, or if growth in the market penetration of exclusively online education slows, growth in the industry and our business could be adversely affected. Because our business model is based on online education, if the acceptance of online education does not grow, our ability to continue to grow our business and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If we do not maintain continued strong relationships with various military bases and educational service officers, and if we are unable to expand our use of articulation agreements, our future growth may be impaired. We have non-exclusive articulation agreements or memoranda of understanding with various educational institutions of the United States Armed Forces and other governmental education programs. Articulation agreements and memoranda of understanding are agreements pursuant to which we agree to award academic credits toward our degrees for learning in educational programs offered by others. Additionally, we rely on relationships with educational service offices on military bases and base education officers to distribute our information to interested service members. If our relationships with educational service offices or base education counselors deteriorate or end, our efforts to recruit students from that base will be impaired. If our articulation agreements and memoranda of understanding are eliminated, or if our relationships with educational service offices or base education counselors deteriorate, this could materially and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. In August 2010, DoD issued a proposed rule that would increase oversight of educational programs offered to active service members. The final rule, published December 7, 2012 and effective January 7, 2013, requires all institutions to sign a Memorandum of Understanding, or MOU, by March 1, 2013. The MOU outlines certain commitments and agreements between the institution and DoD prior to accepting funds under the tuition assistance program. We have entered into a MOU with DOD. However the requirement to enter into a MOU, and the related increased focus by the DoD on relationships and oversight of educational providers could lead to changes in the nature of our relationships with military bases and educational service officers (including possibly needing to enter into separate installation MOUs and obtain permission to counsel students in person on the installation), which could be adverse in nature. At least one installation has banned educational providers from directly counseling potential students on the installation. Additional installations may determine to institute similar bans, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. The United States Armed Forces has in the past and may in the future approve programs and initiatives to provide additional educational opportunities to service members, and these programs and initiatives may not include participation by us. We cannot predict the impact of these announcements, programs, or initiatives on us, but given our dependence on students from the armed forces, our net course registrations, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by such announcements, programs, and initiatives. Government regulations relating to the Internet could increase our cost of doing business, affect our ability to grow or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business. The increasing popularity and use of the Internet and other online services have led and may lead to the adoption of new laws and regulatory practices in the United States or foreign countries and to new interpretations of existing laws and regulations. These new laws and interpretations may relate to issues such as online privacy, copyrights, trademarks, and service marks, sales taxes, fair business practices, and the requirement that online education institutions qualify to do business as foreign corporations or be licensed in one or more jurisdictions where they have no physical location or other presence. New laws, regulations, or interpretations related to doing business over the Internet could increase our costs and materially and adversely affect our enrollments, revenues, and results of operations. Risks Related to the Regulation of Our Industry If we fail to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements for our business, we could face penalties and significant restrictions on our operations, including loss of access to federal tuition assistance programs for members of the United States Armed Forces and federal loans and grants for our students. We are subject to extensive regulation by (1) the federal government through the U.S. Department of Education and under the Higher Education Act, the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs, (2) state regulatory bodies, and (3) accrediting agencies recognized by the U.S. Secretary of Education. The regulations, standards and policies of these agencies cover the vast majority of our operations, including our educational programs, facilities, instructional, and administrative staff, administrative procedures, marketing, recruiting, financial operations, and financial condition. These regulatory requirements can also affect our ability to add new or expand existing educational programs and to change our corporate structure and ownership. Institutions of higher education that grant degrees, diplomas, or certificates must be authorized by an appropriate state education agency or agencies. In addition, in certain states as a condition of continued authorization to grant degrees and other credentials and in order to participate in various federal programs, including tuition assistance programs of the United States Armed Forces, a school must be accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the Secretary of Education. Accreditation is a non-governmental process through which an institution submits to qualitative review by an organization of peer institutions, based on the standards of the accrediting agency and the stated aims and purposes of the institution. The Higher Education Act requires accrediting agencies recognized by the Department of Education to review and monitor many aspects of an institution’s operations and to take appropriate action when the institution fails to comply with the accrediting agency’s standards. Our operations are also subject to regulation due to our participation in Title IV programs. Title IV programs, which are administered by the Department of Education, include loans made directly to students by the Department of Education. Title IV programs also include several grant programs for students with economic need as determined in accordance with the Higher Education Act and Department of Education regulations. To participate in Title IV programs, a school must receive and maintain authorization by the appropriate state education agencies, be accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the Secretary of Education, and be certified as an eligible institution by the Department of Education. Our growth strategy is partly dependent on enrolling more students who are attracted to us because of our continued participation in these programs. The regulations, standards, and policies of the Department of Education, state education agencies, and our accrediting agencies change frequently. Recent and pending changes in, or new interpretations of, applicable laws, regulations, standards, or policies, or our noncompliance with any applicable laws, regulations, standards, or policies, could have a material adverse effect on our accreditation, authorization to operate in various states, activities, receipt of funds under tuition assistance programs of the United States Armed Forces, our ability to participate in Title IV programs, or costs of doing business. Furthermore, findings of noncompliance with these laws, regulations, standards, and policies also could result in our being required to pay monetary damages, or being subjected to fines, penalties, injunctions, limitations on our operations, termination of our ability to grant degrees, revocation of our accreditation, restrictions on our access to Title IV program funds, or other censure that could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to maintain our institutional accreditation, we would lose our ability to participate in the tuition assistance programs of the United States Armed Forces and also to participate in Title IV programs. APUS is accredited by The Higher Learning Commission of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools, one of six regional accrediting agencies recognized by the Secretary of Education. Accreditation by an accrediting agency that is recognized by the Secretary of Education is required for participation in the tuition assistance programs of the United States Armed Forces. In 2012, we derived approximately 38% of our revenue from net course registrations from these tuition assistance programs. Accreditation by an accrediting agency that is recognized by the Secretary of Education for Title IV purposes is also required for an institution to become and remain eligible to participate in Title IV programs. APUS achieved regional accreditation from The Higher Learning Commission in 2006. We were also accredited by the Accrediting Commission of the Distance Education and Training Council, or DETC, until April 30, 2012, when we voluntarily withdrew our accreditation. We have always identified The Higher Learning Commission as our primary accreditor for Title IV purposes. Therefore, our withdrawal of DETC accreditation did not affect our Title IV participation. The Higher Learning Commission may impose restrictions on our accreditation or may terminate our accreditation. To remain accredited APUS must continuously meet certain criteria and standards relating to, among other things, performance, governance, institutional integrity, educational quality, faculty, administrative capability, resources, and financial stability. Failure to meet any of these criteria or standards could result in the loss of accreditation at The Higher Learning Commission. Loss of accreditation would, among other things, render our students and us ineligible to participate in the tuition assistance programs of the United States Armed Forces or Title IV programs and have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenues, and results of operations. Our student enrollments could decline if we fail to maintain any of our accreditations. Accreditation by The Higher Learning Commission is an important attribute of our university system. Colleges and universities depend, in part, on accreditation in evaluating transfers of credit and applications to graduate schools. Employers rely on the accredited status of institutions when evaluating a candidate’s credentials, and students and corporate and government sponsors under tuition reimbursement programs look to accreditation for assurance that an institution maintains quality educational standards. In addition, certain of our individual programs are accredited by specialized accrediting agencies. If we fail to satisfy the standards of any of those specialized accrediting agencies, we could lose the specialized accreditation for the affected programs, which could result in materially reduced student enrollments in those programs and have a material adverse effect on us. Increased scrutiny of accrediting agencies by the Secretary of Education and the U.S. Congress may result in increased scrutiny of institutions, particularly proprietary institutions, by accrediting agencies, and if our institutional accrediting agency loses its ability to serve as an accrediting agency for Title IV program purposes, we may lose our ability to participate in Title IV programs. In November and December 2009, the Department of Education’s Office of the Inspector General, or OIG, issued reports criticizing three regional accreditors – Middle States Commission on Higher Education, the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools, and The Higher Learning Commission – for failing to define both program length and credit hours. OIG, in an unusual action, recommended that the Department of Education consider limiting, suspending, or terminating The Higher Learning Commission’s recognition as an accreditor for purposes of determining institutional eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. In response, Department of Education staff conducted a special review of The Higher Learning Commission and required The Higher Learning Commission to accept a corrective action plan. The Higher Learning Commission received additional scrutiny in June 2010 during a House Education and Labor Committee hearing focused on OIG’s findings with regard to credit hour policies. In December 2010, the National Advisory Committee on Institutional Quality and Integrity, or NACIQI, the panel charged with advising the Department of Education on whether to recognize accrediting agencies for Title IV purposes, reviewed The Higher Learning Commission’s status as a recognized accrediting agency. Based on The Higher Learning Commission’s response to the Department’s special review and a December 2008 interim report (which responded to a 2007 NACIQI review unrelated to the OIG findings), NACIQI voted to continue the Higher Learning Commission’s recognition as an accrediting agency but also ordered the agency to submit an additional compliance report in one year. At its December 2011 meeting, NACIQI characterized The Higher Learning Commission’s report as “informational” and noted that no vote was to be taken on it. We are currently unaware of what further action NACIQI might take with respect to The Higher Learning Commission and its compliance report. NACIQI is next scheduled to review The Higher Learning Commission for recognition purposes in spring 2013. Scrutiny of accrediting agencies and their accreditation of proprietary institutions is likely to continue. For example, The Higher Learning Commission received further scrutiny in March 2011 during a Senate HELP Committee hearing focused on accreditation of proprietary institutions. If the Department of Education were to limit, suspend, or terminate The Higher Learning Commission’s recognition, we would lose our ability to participate in the Title IV programs. Our students and our institution would be ineligible to participate in the Title IV programs, and such consequence would have a material adverse effect on enrollments, revenues, and results of operations. In addition, increased scrutiny of accrediting agencies by the Secretary of Education in connection with the Department of Education’s recognition process may result in increased scrutiny of institutions by accrediting agencies. Furthermore, because the for-profit education sector is growing at such a rapid pace, it is possible that accrediting bodies will respond to that growth by adopting additional criteria, standards, and policies that are intended to monitor, regulate, or limit the growth of for-profit institutions like us. For example, in June 2009 and February 2010, The Higher Learning Commission adopted new policies related to institutional control, structure, and organization. Part of The Higher Learning Commission’s rationale for these changes was to better define the range of its oversight of transactions related to change of ownership at institutions. The new policies extend The Higher Learning Commission’s oversight to transactions that change, or have the potential to change, the control of an institution or its fundamental structure and organization. Under the new policies, The Higher Learning Commission also now extends its oversight to defined changes that occur in a parent or controlling entity, and not necessarily in the institution itself. Actions by, or relating to, an accredited institution, including a significant acquisition of another institution, significant changes in board composition or organizational documents, and accumulations by one stockholder of greater than 25% of the capital stock, could open up an accredited institution to additional reviews by The Higher Learning Commission and possible change from an accredited status to candidate status, which enhances the risks of these types of actions. In particular, the change from accredited status to candidate status could adversely impact an institution’s ability to participate in Title IV programs. For-profit institutions may also be less attractive acquisition candidates because The Higher Learning Commission has enhanced its scrutiny of change in control transactions, obtained the explicit ability to move an institution from accredited status to candidate status, and will be examining more closely entities that own accredited institutions. If The Higher Learning Commission determines that a change required its prior approval but an institution failed to obtain such approval, The Higher Learning Commission may consider withdrawing accreditation. New and anticipated regulations published by the U.S. Department of Education could result in regulatory changes that may materially and adversely affect our business. On October 29, 2010, the Department of Education published final regulations concerning certain institutional eligibility issues (such as state authorization for postsecondary education institutions), definitional issues (such as the definition of “credit hour” for certain eligibility and other purposes), student eligibility issues (including the validity of high school diplomas), and other Title IV provisions (such as gainful employment program reporting and disclosure, incentive payment and misrepresentation), as well as final regulations to establish a process under which an institution applies for approval to offer an educational program that prepares students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation. These final regulations were generally effective July 1, 2011. On June 13, 2011, the Department of Education published final regulations on metrics for gainful employment programs effective July 1, 2012. Collectively, the October 29 and June 13 regulations are referred to as the “program integrity” regulations. On June 30, 2012, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia struck down the metrics for gainful employment programs and certain related requirements, including the requirement that an institution obtain Department of Education approval for new gainful employment programs; the court ruled one day before the metrics would have gone into effect. The program integrity regulations are described above in “Regulation of Title IV Financial Aid Programs - Recent Regulatory Changes.” On May 5, 2011, the Department of Education announced its intention to establish additional negotiated rulemaking committees to prepare proposed regulations under the Higher Education Act. Three public hearings were conducted in May 2011 at which interested parties suggested issues that should be considered for action by the negotiating committees. The Department of Education also conducted roundtable discussions to inform policy in the areas of teacher preparation, college completion, and the proposed “First in the World” competition. In spring 2012, the Department of Education convened two negotiated rulemaking committees- one on teacher preparation and one on student loans- that each held a series of meetings to discuss proposed changes to applicable regulations. Negotiators reached consensus on proposed regulatory language on 25 student loan issues, which will result in two packages of proposed rules to be published for public comment before final promulgation. Proposed rules relating to various loan repayment issues, including a new income-based repayment plan for the Direct Loan program, were issued November 1, 2012. Although the rule was originally scheduled to become effective on July 1, 2013, the Department of Education announced the rule would go into effect on December 21, 2012. Also, the Department of Education issued a NPRM on July 17, 2012 addressing discharges of loans for borrowers who suffer from total and permanent disability, and the Department of Education promulgated final rules on November 1, 2012. Proposed rules relating to other loan-related topics are expected in 2013, to be effective in 2014. Negotiators failed to reach consensus on proposed regulations related to teacher preparation programs and the awarding of TEACH Grants. The committee disagreed about how, if at all, students' test scores should be used to judge the effectiveness of their teachers preparation program. Such so-called “value added scores” were promoted by the Department of Education during the negotiations as one way to determine which institutions should be eligible to award TEACH Grants to students in their teacher preparation programs. As the negotiators failed to reach consensus, the Department of Education is now responsible for drafting proposed regulations, to be released at a future date. If our efforts to comply with new and pending regulations are inconsistent with how the Department of Education interprets those provisions, due to uncertainty about the meaning of the rules or otherwise, we may be found to be in noncompliance with such provisions and the Department of Education could impose monetary penalties, place limitations on our operations, and/or condition or terminate our eligibility to receive Title IV program funds. We cannot predict with certainty the effect the new and pending regulatory provisions will have on our business. A number of the risk factors below address potential substantive concerns and risks with respect to the new regulations. With respect to the final regulations generally, and each of the regulations discussed in the risk factors below specifically, we cannot predict how the final regulations will be interpreted. Compliance with any of these new rules or uncertainty that results from the rules being recently promulgated and the absence of past practice and limited guidance as to the implementation of these new rules could have an adverse impact on our enrollment, affect the manner in which we do business, increase our cost of doing business, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Lack of clarity in the final rules or guidance by the Department of Education could result in uncertainties continuing for some period of time, and may require us to adopt overly-narrow practices until clarity is obtained, and as a result our business could be materially and adversely affected. A failure to meet U.S. Department of Education standards regarding “gainful employment” may result in the loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. On June 13, 2011, the Department of Education published final regulations on gainful employment programs effective July 1, 2012. The regulations established metrics related to student loan repayment rates and debt-to-income ratios for gainful employment programs. If a program failed all three of the gainful employment metrics in a given year, the U.S. Department of Education would require the institution to disclose the amount by which the program under-performed the metrics and the institution’s plan for program improvement. Also, the regulations required an institution to establish a three-day waiting period for enrollment after the warning information is given. If a program failed to achieve the metrics twice within three years, the institution had to continue to provide the first year disclosures and, among other things, also disclose to current and prospective students that they should expect to have difficulty repaying their student loans; provide an explanation of the risks associated with enrolling or continuing in the program, including the potential consequences for, and options available to, the student if the program became ineligible for Title IV funds; and explain the resources available to research other educational options and compare program costs. Should a program fail three times within a four year period, the regulations permitted the Department of Education to terminate the program’s eligibility for federal student aid (i.e., students in the program would immediately lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs), and the institution would not be able to reestablish the program’s eligibility for at least three years, though the program could continue to operate without Title IV funding. In addition, the regulations required institutions to notify the Department of Education at least 90 days before commencing a new educational program leading to gainful employment in a recognized occupation. The regulations required the Department of Education to approve a new program in certain circumstances. On June 30, 2012, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia vacated these regulations. The court did not vacate the requirement that institutions provide information to prospective students on their website and in their promotional materials about their gainful employment programs, such as the occupations that the gainful employment program prepares the student to enter, on-time graduate rates for students in the program, cost, job placement rate, and median loan debt incurred by graduates of the program. The Department of Education required institutions to make such disclosures by July 1, 2011, and to update such disclosures for the 2011-2012 award year by January 31, 2013. These disclosure requirements, and the requirements for reporting to the Department and to our students information relating to programs, have increased our administrative burdens. The disclosure requirements could impact student enrollment and retention in ways that we cannot now predict. For example, if our disclosures compare unfavorably with those of other educational institutions, such disclosures could adversely impact student enrollment. On July 30, 2012, the Department of Education filed a motion to alter or amend the court's June 30, 2012 judgment. The Department of Education argued in its motion that even though it would not be permitted to sanction education institutions for failure to meet the debt measure thresholds (i) education institutions should disclose information to the Department of Education that will allow the Department of Education to calculate the debt measures and (ii) education institutions should include the results of the debt measure calculations in their disclosures to prospective students. On September 24, 2012, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia requested a supplemental briefing by the parties addressing, in brief, (i) the scope of the Department of Education's statutory authorization to maintain a database of information about student borrowers and (ii) the authority on which the Department of Education relied to argue that it could require education institutions to provide information to the Department of Education for purposes of calculating the debt measures and then require education institutions to disclose the results of those debt measure calculations. The parties filed supplemental briefs in November 2012, and the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia is expected to render a decision in 2013. If the regulations are reinstated on appeal or repromulgated by the Department of Education, it is not possible at this time to determine with any degree of certainty whether such future regulations will cause any of our programs to become ineligible to participate in the Title IV programs owing to factors beyond our control, such as changes in the actual or deemed income level of our graduates, changes in student borrowing levels, increases in interest rates, changes in the federal poverty income level relevant for calculating discretionary income, changes in the percentage of our former students who are current in repayment of their student loans, and other factors. In addition, even though deficiencies in the metrics may be correctible on a timely basis, if we are required to disclose such metrics to students it may adversely impact enrollment in certain programs and may adversely impact the reputation of our educational institutions. Our failure to obtain Department of Education approval, where required, for new programs that prepare students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation could materially and adversely affect our business. On October 29, 2010, the Department of Education issued final regulations to establish a new process under which an institution applies for approval to offer an educational program that prepares students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation. Under the final regulations, which became effective July 1, 2011, an institution must notify the Department of Education at least 90 days before the first day of class when it intends to add a program that prepares students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation. The institution seeking approval may proceed to offer the program, unless the Department of Education advises the institution at least 30 days before the first day of classes that the Department of Education must approve the program for Title IV purposes. If the Department of Education denies approval, the institution may not award Title IV funds in connection with the program. On June 30, 2012, U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia vacated the regulations requiring the U.S. Department of Education to receive notice of (and possibly approve) any new program that prepares students for gainful employment, which for APUS includes most of its programs. Pending a final ruling in this case, the Department of Education has advised institutions to follow the rules on additional programs that immediately preceded the gainful employment rules. The version once again in effect provides that approval of new programs is not required if the additional program prepares students for gainful employment in the same or related occupation as an educational program that has previously been designated as eligible and is at least eight semester hour, 12 quarter hours, or 600 clock hours. It is unclear whether the Department of Education will repromulgate the regulation in a form that can withstand challenge. See “Risks Related to the Regulation of our Industry” for additional information on these new program approval requirements. If the Department were to deny approval to one or more of our new programs, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, compliance with any new procedures could cause delay in our ability to offer new programs and put our business at a competitive disadvantage. Compliance could also adversely affect our ability to timely offer programs of interest to our students and potential students and adversely affect our ability to increase our revenues. As a result, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to comply with the Department of Education’s incentive payment rule could result in sanctions. If we pay a bonus, commission, or other incentive payment in violation of applicable Department of Education rules, we could be subject to sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the final regulations published on October 29, 2010, the Department of Education abolished 12 safe harbors that described permissible arrangements under the regulation. The amended regulation was effective July 1, 2011. Abolition of the safe harbors and other aspects of the new regulation may create uncertainty about what constitutes impermissible incentive payments. The modified incentive payment rule and related uncertainty as to how it will be interpreted also may influence our approach, or limit our alternatives, with respect to employment policies and practices and consequently may affect negatively our ability to recruit and retain employees, and as a result our business could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the Government Accountability Office, or GAO, has issued a report critical of the Department of Education’s enforcement of the incentive payment rule, and the Department of Education has undertaken to increase its enforcement efforts. If the Department of Education determines that an institution violated the incentive payment rule, it may require the institution to modify its payment arrangements to the Department of Education’s satisfaction. The Department of Education may also fine the institution or initiate action to limit, suspend, or terminate the institution’s participation in the Title IV programs. The Department of Education may also seek to recover Title IV funds disbursed in connection with the prohibited incentive payments. In addition, third parties may file “qui tam” or “whistleblower” suits on behalf of the Department of Education alleging violation of the incentive payment provision. Such suits may prompt Department of Education investigations. Particularly in light of the uncertainty surrounding the new incentive payment rule, the existence of, the costs of responding to, and the outcome of, qui tam or whistleblower suits or Department of Education investigations could have a material adverse effect on our reputation causing our enrollments to decline and could cause us to incur costs that are material to our business, among other things. As a result, our business could be materially and adversely affected Our failure to comply with the Department of Education’s substantial misrepresentation rules could result in sanctions. The Department of Education may take action against an institution in the event of substantial misrepresentation by the institution concerning the nature of its educational programs, its financial charges or the employability of its graduates. In the final regulations published on October 29, 2010, the Department of Education has expanded the activities that constitute a substantial misrepresentation, effective July 1, 2011. Under the final regulation, an institution engages in substantial misrepresentation when the institution itself, one of its representatives, or an organization or person with which the institution has an agreement to provide educational programs, marketing, advertising, or admissions services, makes a substantial misrepresentation directly or indirectly to a student, prospective student or any member of the public, or to an accrediting agency, a state agency, or to the Secretary of Education. The final regulations define misrepresentation as any false, erroneous or misleading statement, and they define a misleading statement as any statement that has the likelihood or tendency to deceive or confuse. The final regulations define substantial misrepresentation as any misrepresentation on which the person to whom it was made could reasonably be expected to rely, or has reasonably relied, to the person’s detriment. If the Department of Education determines that an institution has engaged in substantial misrepresentation, the Department of Education may revoke an institution’s program participation agreement, impose limitations on an institution’s participation in the Title IV programs, deny participation applications made on behalf of the institution, or initiate a proceeding against the institution to fine the institution or to limit, suspend or termination the institution’s participation in the Title IV programs. On June 5, 2012, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia vacated portions of the substantial misrepresentation regulation that permitted the U.S. Department of Education to: (i) revoke an institution's program participation agreement or impose limitations on an institution's participation without affording procedural protections; (ii) proscribe misrepresentations with respect to subjects not covered by the Higher Education Act; and (iii) proscribe statements that are merely confusing. The court remanded the matters so that the Department of Education can revise the regulations. The Department of Education could promulgate regulations that expand its role in monitoring and enforcing prohibitions on misrepresentation. This could lead to an increase in administrative actions and litigation claiming substantial misrepresentation, which at a minimum would increase legal costs associated with defending such actions. As a result, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Failure to comply with the Department of Education’s credit hour requirements could result in sanctions. In the final regulations published on October 29, 2010, the Department of Education has defined “credit” hour for Title IV purposes. The credit hour is used for Title IV purposes to define an eligible program and an academic year and to determine enrollment status and the amount of Title IV aid that an institution may disburse in a payment period. The final regulations define credit hour as an institutionally established equivalency that reasonably approximates certain specified time in class and out of class or an equivalent amount of work for other academic activities. The final regulations also require institutional accreditors to review an institution’s policies, procedures, and administration of policies and procedures for assignment of credit hours. An accreditor must take appropriate actions to address an institution’s credit hour deficiencies and to notify the Department of Education if it finds systemic noncompliance or significant noncompliance in one or more programs. The Department of Education has indicated that if it finds an institution to be out of compliance with the credit hour definition for Title IV purposes, it may require the institution to repay the amount of Title IV awarded under the incorrect assignment of credit hours and, if it finds significant overstatement of credit hours, it may fine the institution or limit, suspend, or terminate its participation in Title IV programs, as a result of which our business could be materially and adversely affected. Failure to comply with the Department of Education’s state authorization rules could result in our students being ineligible for Title IV programs. To be eligible for Title IV programs, an institution must be legally authorized to provide postsecondary education in the state in which it is physically located. In the final regulations published on October 29, 2010, the Department of Education specified the type of state approvals that are acceptable for an institution to demonstrate that it is legally authorized by the state in which it is located. The regulations also provide that states must have mechanisms to take appropriate action against institutions and to respond to complaints. Currently, APUS is headquartered in the State of West Virginia and is authorized by the West Virginia Higher Education Policy Commission. APUS has a physical presence in the Commonwealth of Virginia based on administrative offices in that state, and it is authorized by the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia. We believe that the only state licensure or authorization that is currently necessary for APUS to participate in the tuition assistance programs for the United States Armed Forces and in Title IV programs is our authorization from the West Virginia Higher Education Policy Commission. It is possible that West Virginia and other states could, as a result of the limited amount of time for states to evaluate and implement the Department of Education’s final state authorization rule or otherwise, adopt standards that are detrimental to institutions such as ours. As a result, our business could be materially and adversely affected. If we acquire additional locations, we will need to seek authorization from the states where they are physically located. If APUS does not maintain its authorization in West Virginia, our operations would be curtailed, and we may not grant degrees. APUS is headquartered in the State of West Virginia and is authorized by the West Virginia Higher Education Policy Commission to grants degrees, diplomas and certificates. The West Virginia Higher Education Policy Commission may also take disciplinary action or revoke authorization if an institution’s bond is cancelled, if the institution fails to take corrective action to bring it into compliance with West Virginia Higher Education Policy Commission policies, or if the owner is convicted for a felony or crime involving institution administration of Title IV programs. Under current West Virginia law, if we were to lose our accreditation by The Higher Learning Commission, the West Virginia Higher Education Policy Commission may suspend, withdraw, or revoke our authorization. In addition, in order to maintain our eligibility for accreditation by The Higher Learning Commission, we must remain headquartered and have a substantial presence in one of the states in its region, which includes West Virginia. Thus, if we were to lose our authorization from the West Virginia Higher Education Policy Commission, we would be unable to provide educational services in West Virginia, we would lose our eligibility for Title IV programs, and we would lose our regional accreditation. Our failure to comply with regulations of various states could have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenues, and results of operations. Various states impose regulatory requirements on educational institutions operating within their boundaries. Several states assert jurisdiction over online educational institutions that have no physical location or other presence in the state but offer educational services to students who reside in the state or advertise to or recruit prospective students in the state. State regulatory requirements for online education are inconsistent among states and not well developed in many jurisdictions. As such, these requirements change frequently and, in some instances, are not clear or are left to the discretion of state regulators. In final regulations published on October 29, 2010, the Department of Education stated that if an institution offers postsecondary education through distance education to students in a state in which the institution is not physically located, the institution must meet state requirements for it to be legally offering postsecondary distance education in that state. That rule was effective on July 1, 2011, although in an April 2011 guidance letter the Department of Education indicated that it would not initiate any action to establish repayment liabilities or limit student eligibility for distance education activities undertaken before July 1, 2014, provided the institution was making a good faith effort to identify and obtain necessary state authorization before that date. On July 12, 2011, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia vacated the portion of the Department of Education's state authorization regulation that requires online education providers to obtain any required authorizations from all states in which their students reside, finding that the Department of Education had failed to provide sufficient notice and opportunity for comment on the requirement. On June 5, 2012, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia affirmed the district court's July 12, 2011 ruling. On July 27, 2012, the Department of Education issued a Dear Colleague Letter cautioning education institutions to remain in compliance with all applicable state laws and regulations related to distance education. The level of regulatory oversight varies substantially from state to state. In some U.S. states, institutions are subject to licensure by the state education agency and also by a separate state agency or agencies, depending on the programs offered. Some states have sought to assert jurisdiction over online educational institutions that offer educational services to residents in the state or that advertise or recruit in the state, notwithstanding the lack of a physical location in the state. State laws may establish standards for instruction, qualifications of faculty, location and nature of facilities, financial policies and responsibility and other operational matters. State laws and regulations may limit our ability to obtain authorization to operate in certain states or to award degrees or diplomas or offer new degree programs. Furthermore, certain states prescribe standards of financial responsibility that are different from those prescribed by the U.S. Department of Education. The Department of Education’s distance-education state authorization requirement could lead some states to adopt new laws and regulatory practices affecting the delivery of distance education to students located in those states. In the event we are found not to be in compliance with a state’s new or existing requirements for offering distance education within that state, the state could seek to restrict one or more of our business activities within its boundaries, we may not be able to recruit students from that state, and may have to cease providing service to students in that state. In addition, the Department of Education has not announced its next steps, but it may engage in the future in a negotiated rulemaking to address distance education and state authorization. Should the federal distance education requirements published in October 2010 be enforced in the future, and if we fail to obtain required state authorization to provide postsecondary distance education in a specific state, we could lose our ability to award Title IV aid to students in that state. The requirements of some states' regulations could make it more difficult for us to successfully pursue particular program initiatives. Some states have regulations that apply to certain types of programs. For example, a number of states require that we obtain additional authorizations for our students to pursue sponsored internships or participate in practicums in the states, even where we have no other physical presence in the state. These types of provisions may make it more difficult for us to offer certain programs or degrees in those states. Program initiatives, such as our teacher education programs, that include “on the ground” components (e.g., student teaching, professional internships, etc.) that may be described as instructional activities, will be viewed by some state regulatory agencies as constituting a physical presence for regulatory purposes. As we expand some of our existing programs and pursue new programs, there is a high probability that we will need to seek formal authorization to operate in some states where historically we were not required to do so. The extent of this expansion in regulatory requirements, and the associated costs, are not known at this time, but we anticipate they may be significant. Furthermore, there may be some states where it takes a significant amount of time to meet the applicable regulatory requirements with respect to a new program initiative, or where we are not able to do so at all. The inability to efficiently or successfully expand existing programs and pursue new program initiatives would harm our ability to grow our business and meet our business objectives and could lead to higher regulatory costs and expose us to adverse actions by state regulators. Our experience with the Title IV programs is limited, because we only began to participate in the programs in 2006, and our failure to comply with the complex regulations associated with Title IV programs would have a significant adverse effect on our operations and prospects for growth. We first became certified to participate in Title IV programs for classes beginning in November 2006. We expect a significant portion of our growth in enrollments and revenues to come from students who are utilizing funds from Title IV programs. However, compliance with the requirements of the Higher Education Act and Title IV programs is highly complex and imposes significant additional regulatory requirements on our operations, which require additional staff, contractual arrangements, systems and regulatory costs. We have limited demonstrated history of compliance with these additional regulatory requirements, and as discussed in the risk factor immediately below, in 2012 the Department of Education found that we failed to properly calculate and return federal financial aid in accordance with applicable Title IV policies, resulting in APUS having a $1,040,851 liability to the Department. If we fail to comply with any of the regulatory requirements under Title IV programs, the Department of Education could, among other things, impose monetary penalties, place limitations on our operations, and/or condition or terminate our eligibility to receive Title IV program funds, which would limit our potential for growth outside the military sector and adversely affect our enrollment, revenues, and results of operations. Government and regulatory agencies and third parties may conduct compliance reviews, bring claims, or initiate litigation against us, any of which could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our performance. Because we operate in a highly regulated industry, we are subject to compliance reviews and claims of noncompliance and lawsuits by government agencies, regulatory agencies, and third parties, including claims brought by third parties on behalf of the federal government. For example, the Department of Education regularly conducts program reviews of educational institutions that are participating in the Title IV programs and the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Education regularly conducts audits and investigations of such institutions. In August 2010, the Secretary of Education announced in a letter to several members of Congress that, in part in response to recent allegations against proprietary institutions of deceptive trade practices and noncompliance with Department of Education regulations, the Department planned to strengthen its oversight of Title IV programs through, among other approaches, increasing the number of program reviews by 50%, from 200 conducted in 2010 up to 300 reviews in 2011. If the results of compliance reviews or other proceedings are unfavorable to us, or if we are unable to defend successfully against lawsuits or claims, we may be required to pay monetary damages or be subject to fines, limitations, loss of Title IV funding, injunctions, or other penalties, including the requirement to make refunds. Even if we adequately address issues raised by an agency review or successfully defend a lawsuit or claim, we may have to divert significant financial and management resources from our ongoing business operations to address issues raised by those reviews or to defend against those lawsuits or claims. Claims and lawsuits brought against us may damage our reputation, even if such claims and lawsuits are without merit. On February 28, 2011 the U.S. Department of Education began an on-site program review of APUS' administration of the Title IV programs. On May 14, 2012 the Department of Education issued a Final Program Review Determination, or FPRD. The FPRD (1) identified liabilities resulting from the program review report findings, (2) provided instructions for payment of the liabilities to the Department of Education, (3) notified APUS of its right to appeal, and (4) notified APUS that under Department of Education regulations, APUS is required to post an irrevocable letter of credit payable to the U.S. Secretary of Education due to the number of unpaid and late refunds identified as part of the program review. The liabilities and letter of credit requirements are based on the program review report's finding that APUS' policies improperly failed to treat certain students as having unofficially withdrawn from the institution and that APUS consequently failed to calculate and return federal student financial aid to the Department of Education as a result of these unofficial withdrawals. The FPRD stated that APUS' total monetary liability, including interest, is $1,040,851. Notwithstanding that the Company disagrees with the Department's position, after considering the time, effort, expense and other factors involved in a full appeal, the Company determined to pay the liability. Because we cannot be assured that we will be able to collect the full amounts from the relevant former students, we have established a partial reserve against these receivables. We will continue to monitor the collection history and the reserve established. In response to the FPRD, we have also posted an irrevocable letter of credit in favor of the Department of Education in the amount of $163,284. Certain of our students are eligible to receive funds from education assistance programs administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs, including under the GI Bills. Pursuant to federal law related to those programs, we are approved for education of veterans and members of the selective reserve and their dependents by the state approving agencies in Virginia and West Virginia. On April 16, 2012, the Department of Veterans Affairs began an on-site program review of our programs. The on-site review was concluded on April 20, 2012, and we have not yet received a formal report from the Department of Veterans Affairs. We must periodically seek recertification to participate in Title IV programs, and may, in certain circumstances, be subject to review by the Department of Education prior to seeking recertification, and our future success may be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully maintain certification or obtain recertification. An institution generally must seek recertification from the Department of Education at least every six years and possibly more frequently depending on various factors, such as whether it is provisionally certified. The Department of Education may also review an institution’s continued eligibility and certification to participate in Title IV programs, or scope of eligibility and certification, in the event the institution undergoes a change in ownership resulting in a change of control or expands its activities in certain ways, such as the addition of certain types of new programs, or, in certain cases, changes to the academic credentials that it offers. In certain circumstances, the Department of Education must provisionally certify an institution, such as when it is an initial participant in Title IV programs or has undergone a change in ownership and control. In 2006, we applied to participate in Title IV programs for the first time and were provisionally certified for a period through June 30, 2007. We timely submitted our application for recertification, and the Department of Education granted us provisional certification through June 30, 2008. In May 2008, we were fully recertified to participate in Title IV programs. In August 2008, we were deemed to have undergone a change in ownership and control requiring review by the Department of Education in order to reestablish our eligibility and continue participation in Title IV programs. As required under Department of Education regulations, we timely notified the Department of Education of our change in ownership and control. In connection with the Department of Education’s review of the change, we submitted to the Department of Education a change in ownership application that included the submission of required documentation, including a letter from The Higher Learning Commission indicating that it had approved the change. On October 2, 2008, we received a letter from the Department of Education approving the change in ownership and control and granting us provisional certification until September 30, 2010. A provisionally certified institution must apply for and receive Department of Education approval of substantial changes and must comply with any additional conditions included in its program participation agreement. If the Department of Education determines that a provisionally certified institution is unable to meet its responsibilities under its program participation agreement, it may seek to revoke the institution’s certification to participate in Title IV programs with fewer due process protections for the institution than if it were fully certified. The Department of Education may withdraw the institution’s certification if it determines that the institution is not fulfilling material requirements for continued participation in Title IV programs. In 2010, we applied for recertification and, on July 2, 2010, we received a letter from the Department of Education notifying us that we are fully recertified to participate in Title IV programs through December 31, 2014. If the Department of Education were to withdraw or not renew our certification to participate in Title IV programs, our students would no longer be able to receive Title IV program funds, which would have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenues, and results of operations. In addition, regulatory restraints related to the addition of new programs could impair our ability to attract and retain students and could negatively affect our financial results. The U.S. Congress has been examining the for-profit postsecondary education sector, which could result in legislation or additional Department of Education rulemaking that may limit or condition Title IV program participation of proprietary schools in a manner that may materially and adversely affect our business. In recent years, the U.S. Congress has increased its focus on for-profit education institutions, including a review of their participation in the Title IV programs. Beginning in June 2010, the HELP Committee held hearings to examine the proprietary education sector. On August 5, 2010, we received a letter from Senator Tom Harkin, Chairman of the HELP Committee, requesting documents as part of a review of matters related to for-profit postsecondary education institutions whose students receive federal student financial aid. We understand that the request was one of approximately thirty requests made to for-profit colleges in connection with the HELP Committee’s review of matters related to for-profit colleges participating in Title IV programs. In June 2010, the Education and Labor Committee of the U.S. House of Representatives held a hearing to examine accreditors’ standards and procedures pertinent to higher education institutions’ policies on credit hours and program length. During the hearing, some committee members voiced concerns about the growing proportion of federal student financial aid going to proprietary institutions. On June 21, the chairmen of each of the Senate and House education committees, together with other members of Congress, requested the GAO to conduct a review and prepare a report with recommendations regarding various aspects of the proprietary education sector, including recruitment practices, educational quality, student outcomes, the sufficiency of integrity safeguards against waste, fraud and abuse in Title IV programs, and the degree to which proprietary institutions’ revenue is comprised of Title IV and other federal funding sources. On August 4, the GAO released a report based on a three-month undercover investigation of recruiting practices at proprietary institutions, which concluded that employees at a non-random sample of 15 proprietary institutions (which did not include APUS) made deceptive statements to students about accreditation, graduation rates, job placement, program costs, or financial aid. On November 30, 2010, the GAO issued a revised version of that report that corrected or further explained a number of the instances of allegedly deceptive conduct. We incurred significant legal and other costs to respond to the congressional inquiry, and could incur significant legal and other cost to respond to any future inquiries. On August 4, 2010, the Senate HELP Committee held a hearing to examine the student recruitment experience at for-profit postsecondary education institutions, and on September 30, 2010, the Senate HELP Committee held a hearing in regard to the federal investment in for-profit education and the resulting student outcomes. The Senate HELP Committee held additional hearings in 2011. On March 10, 2011, the Committee held a hearing to present a case study of another for-profit postsecondary education institution, its educational services, and the role of accreditor, state, and federal oversight. A hearing about financial outcomes of students at for-profit colleges was held by the Senate HELP Committee on June 7, 2011. At a number of hearings, committee members have expressed concern about the amount of student loan debt taken on by students at for-profit institutions. Following those hearings, on July 21, 2011, the Committee hosted a roundtable discussion of policy solutions for improving for-profit postsecondary education. On July 30, 2012, the HELP Committee issued a final report entitled “For Profit Higher Education: The Failure to Safeguard the Federal Investment and Ensure Student Success,” which summarized the results of its investigations. While the report acknowledged that for-profit education institutions have a role to play in American society given insufficient capacity at not-for-profit and public education institutions, it made specific policy suggestions for future legislation that could affect proprietary institutions, including: ● tying access to federal aid to meeting minimum student outcome thresholds; ● prohibiting institutions from funding marketing, advertising and recruiting activities with federal financial aid dollars; ● improving cohort default rate tracking by expanding the default reporting rate period beyond 3 years; ● requiring that proprietary colleges receive at least 15 percent of revenues from sources other than federal funds; and ● using criteria beyond accreditation and state authorization for determining institutions' access to federal financial aid. The report was not adopted by the full Committee, and the minority Members released their own report criticizing the majority's investigation in many aspects, including that it did not include a review of all institutions of higher education. Despite the fact that the full committee did not adopt the report, Congress may consider the report as it begins the process of reauthorizing the Higher Education Act. On September 21, 2012, a group of senators wrote a letter to the Federal Trade Commission urging it to evaluate the marketing practices utilized by many proprietary institutions through the use of third-party lead generators. In addition, legislation was introduced in the Senate in April 2012, which would prevent institutions from using Title IV funds for marketing activities. On October 31, 2011, the GAO released a second report following additional undercover investigation related to enrollment, cost, financial aid, course structure, substandard student performance, withdrawal, and exit counseling. The report concluded that while some of the 15 unidentified for-profit schools investigated appeared to follow existing policies, others did not. Although the report identified a number of deficiencies in specific instances, it made no recommendations. On December 7, 2011, the GAO released a report that attempted to compare the quality of education provided by for-profit, not-for-profit, and public schools based upon multiple outcome measures including graduation rates, pass rates on licensing exams, employment outcomes, and student loan default rates. The report found that for-profit school students had higher graduation rates for certificate programs, similar graduation rates for associate’s degree programs, and lower graduation rates for bachelor’s degree programs than students at not-for-profit and public schools. It also found that a higher proportion of bachelor’s degree recipients from for-profit schools took out loans than did degree recipients from other schools and that there is some evidence that students at for-profits schools default on their student loans at higher rates. On nine of the 10 licensing exams reviewed, graduates of for-profit schools had lower pass rates than students from not-for-profit and public schools. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, or CFPB, submitted two reports to Congress in 2012 with specific recommendations for restructuring the student borrowing experience, including requiring institutions to certify that a student is not eligible for any further federal funds before a private loan may be issued to such student. In addition, on January 31, 2013, CFPB encouraged institutions of higher education, students, and others to provide information to the CFPB by March 18, 2013 about the financial products and services currently offered to students, and comments on how current and future arrangements between institutions of higher education and financial institutions could be structured in order to promote positive financial decision-making among consumers. On January 23, 2013, Senator Durbin introduced the Know Before You Owe Private Student Loan Act of 2013, which would require institutions to certify to a private loan lender a student's cost of attendance and estimated federal financial assistance before a loan may be issued to such student. The Act would also require institutions to counsel students about their loan options, including discussion of differences between federal loans and private loans. Private loan lenders would be required to provide students with quarterly account updates on the balance and interest accrued. On January 23, 2013, Senator Durbin also introduced the Fairness for Struggling Students Act of 2013, which would allow private student loans to be dischargeable in bankruptcy. We do not know what steps Congress may take in response to these actions and whether such actions (if any) will have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. In addition, other Congressional hearings and reviews addressing various aspects of the education sector may occur, which may affect our business. The confluence of the increasing scrutiny in Congress of the proprietary education sector and the unprecedented federal budget deficits increases the likelihood of legislation that will adversely impact our business. We cannot predict the extent to which, or whether, these hearings and reviews will result in legislation, further rulemaking affecting our participation in Title IV programs, or more vigorous enforcement of Title IV requirements. Legislation, for example, could be focused on measures of student outcomes that do not take into account that as an institution that has historically had an open enrollment policy, we will naturally have a lower graduation rate than institutions that have selective admission policies. To the extent that any laws or regulations are adopted that limit or condition Title IV program participation or the amount of federal student financial aid for which our students are eligible, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Congressional examination of Department of Defense oversight of tuition assistance used for distance education and proprietary institutions and pending rulemaking by the Department of Defense could result in legislative or regulatory changes that may materially and adversely affect our business. In recent years, the U.S. Congress has increased its focus on DoD tuition assistance that is used for distance education and programs at proprietary institutions. In September 2010, the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations of the U.S. House of Representative’s Armed Services Committee held a hearing titled “A Question of Quality and Value: Department of Defense Oversight of Tuition Assistance Used for Distance Learning and For-Profit Colleges.” Witnesses and Subcommittee members expressed concern about DoD’s oversight of distance education programs, especially those offered by proprietary institutions. In August 2010, DoD issued a proposed regulation that would increase oversight of educational programs offered to active duty service members. The final rule, published December 7, 2012 and effective January 7, 2013, requires all institutions to sign a Memorandum of Understanding, or MOU, by March 1, 2013. The MOU outlines certain commitments and agreements between the institution and DoD prior to accepting funds under the tuition assistance program. We have entered into a standard MOU with DoD. In addition, in December 2010, the Senate HELP Committee released a report entitled “Benefitting Whom? For-Profit Education Companies and the Growth of Military Educational Benefits,” which raised questions about the growing share of DoD tuition assistance received by proprietary institutions. In March 2011, the GAO published a report entitled “DoD Education Benefits: Increased Oversight of Tuition Assistance Program is Needed,” which offered several recommendations for improving accountability within the tuition assistance program. In September 2011, the Senate Subcommittee on Federal Financial Management, Government Information, Federal Services, and International Security held a hearing focused on the classification of military education benefits under the “90/10 Rule,” which requires proprietary institutions to derive at least 10 percent of their revenue from non-Title IV sources. Some of the panelists suggested that the classification of military benefits as non-Title IV revenue for purposes of the 90/10 Rule has led some for-profit institutions to recruit aggressively and sometimes illegally members of the military in order to ensure compliance with the 90/10 Rule. Senator Harkin, Chairman of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor & Pensions spoke on the Senate floor on May 19, 2011 and hosted a press conference on September 22, 2011 encouraging reformation of the 90/10 Rule. Senator Harkin has accused for-profit institutions of engaging in deceptive marketing and aggressive recruiting in order to enroll veteran and active duty military members. He has also criticized for-profit institutions on the basis of their program withdrawal rates and demanded more accountability for the use of federal funds. In addition, the President's EO, issued April 27, 2012, establishing Principles to strengthen oversight, in part, of the DoD tuition assistance program requires federal agencies to implement the Principles through various actions. Congress may also decide to take action in response to the Principles. We cannot predict the extent to which, or whether, congressional hearings result in legislation or further rulemaking affecting our participation in DoD’s tuition assistance program or the Title IV programs. Members of Congress have stated, both in committee hearings and in the HELP Committee report, that Congress should revise the 90/10 Rule to count DoD tuition assistance and veterans educational benefits toward the 90% limit. In January 2012, Senators Harkin and Durbin introduced a bill to modify the 90/10 Rule by reducing the threshold to 85% and counting the Title IV programs, the DoD tuition assistance program, and veterans education benefits programs as sources from which an institution may derive no more than 85% of its revenue. In February 2012, companion bills were introduced in the U.S. Senate and U.S. House of Representatives that would modify the 90/10 Rule to count DoD tuition assistance and veterans education benefits toward the 90% limit, along with Title IV programs. On May 29, 2012, attorneys general for 21 states called on Congress to enact this type of legislation. We cannot predict the likelihood that Congress will amend the 90/10 Rule to count DoD tuition assistance and veterans education benefits toward the 90% limit or to lower the ratio to 85/15, nor can we predict the likelihood that Congress or President Obama will not take some other action to limit tuition assistance and veterans education benefits to proprietary institutions. To the extent that any laws or regulations are adopted that limit or condition the participation of proprietary schools or distance education programs in DoD tuition assistance programs or in Title IV programs with respect to DoD tuition assistance programs, or that limit or condition the amount of tuition assistance for which proprietary schools or distance education programs are eligible, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Our regulatory environment and our reputation may be negatively influenced by the actions of other for-profit institutions. We are one of a number of for-profit institutions serving the postsecondary education market. In recent years, regulatory investigations and civil litigation have been commenced against several companies that own for-profit educational institutions. These investigations and lawsuits have alleged, among other things, deceptive trade practices and noncompliance with Department of Education regulations. These allegations have attracted adverse media coverage and have been the subject of federal and state legislative hearings. Broader allegations against the overall for-profit school sector may negatively affect public perceptions of for-profit educational institutions, including APUS. In addition, in recent years reports on student lending practices of various lending institutions and schools, including for-profit schools, and investigations by a number of state attorneys general, Congress and governmental agencies have led to adverse media coverage of postsecondary education. Adverse media coverage regarding other companies in the for-profit school sector or regarding us directly could damage our reputation, could result in lower enrollments, revenues and operating profit, and could have a negative impact on our stock price. Such allegations could also result in increased scrutiny and regulation by the Department of Education, Congress, accrediting bodies, state legislatures, or other governmental authorities with respect to all for-profit institutions, including us. Sequestration could reduce demand by reducing the availability of Title IV funds and increasing processing time and could have similar effects on tuition assistance funds. Congressional actions that reduce Title IV program funding (whether through across-the-board funding reductions, sequestration or otherwise) or materially affect the eligibility of APUS or its students to participate in Title IV programs would have a material adverse effect on our enrollment, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. On December 23, 2011, President Obama signed into law the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2012, which made several alterations to federal student aid programs authorized under Title IV. Also, under the Budget Control Act of 2011, Congress must develop legislation to achieve further deficit reduction, and the outcome of this process is uncertain. The Budget Control Act of 2011 and the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 each provide for the possibility of automatic across-the-board reductions in federal spending (also known as “sequestration”) as a budgetary enforcement tool. On January 2, 2013, President Obama signed legislation to avoid the so-called “fiscal cliff.” However, unless Congress takes further action, sequestration will begin on March 1, 2013. The House Committee on the Budget released a report in January 2013 stating that programs administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs will be exempt from sequestration. If sequestration is triggered by either the Budget Control Act of 2011 or the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, funding for Title IV programs would be affected. Pell Grants would be exempt from cuts through fiscal year 2013, but could be subject to sequestration in fiscal year2014 and beyond. Most other federal student aid programs would be subject to across-the-board cuts to discretionary programs at a rate of approximately 8.2%. Origination fees for Stafford loans and PLUS loans would increase approximately 7.6%, to approximately 1.076% and 4.034% of the total loan, respectively. Cuts to the Department of Education's Federal Student Aid Administration budget could lead to delays in student eligibility determinations and delays in processing and origination of federal student loans. A reduction in the maximum annual Pell Grant amount or changes in eligibility could increase student borrowing and make it more difficult for us to comply with other regulatory requirements, such as the cohort default rate regulations. In addition, the Department of Education's Federal Student Aid administration budget would be reduced by sequestration, which could delay student eligibility determinations and processing of federal student loans. Furthermore, in the event of sequestration, the amounts available under the tuitions assistance programs of the Department of Defense could also be significantly curtailed or even eliminated, and the time for the various services to process requests for tuition assistance could be lengthened. These events could make it more difficult for students to obtain funding for an APUS education, either in a timely manner or at all, and would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Congress may change the law or reduce funding for Title IV programs, which could reduce our student population, revenues and profit margin. On April 18, 2012, Senators Kay Hagan and Tom Harkin introduced new legislation that would prohibit colleges and universities from using funds from Title IV programs, military tuition assistance, veterans education benefits programs, and other federal educational assistance funds to pay for marketing, advertising, and recruiting. If a similar bill were introduced in the 113th Congress and enacted, it would significantly affect our ability to identify and attract prospective students. The Higher Education Act comes up for reauthorization by Congress approximately every five to six years. When Congress does not act on complete reauthorization, there are typically amendments and extensions of authorization. On August 2, 2011, President Obama signed The Budget Control Act of 2011, which eliminated Direct Subsidized Loans for graduate and professional students, as of July 1, 2012. The cost of borrowing will increase for graduate students who defer payment of interest while enrolled, which could adversely impact our enrollments. In addition, there is no assurance that Congress will not in the future enact changes that decrease Title IV program funds available to students, including students who attend our institution. Any action by Congress that significantly reduces funding for Title IV programs or the ability of our school or students to participate in these programs would require us to arrange for other sources of financial aid and would materially decrease our enrollment. Such a decrease in enrollment would have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Congressional action may also require us to modify our practices in ways that could result in increased administrative and regulatory costs and decreased profit margin. We are not in a position to predict with certainty whether any legislation will be passed by Congress or signed into law in the future. The reallocation of funding among Title IV programs, material changes in the requirements for participation in such programs, or the substitution of materially different Title IV programs could reduce the ability of certain students to finance their education at our institution and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Investigations by state attorneys general, Congress, and governmental agencies regarding relationships between loan providers and educational institutions and their financial aid officers may result in increased regulatory burdens and costs. In recent years, the student lending practices of postsecondary educational institutions, financial aid officers, and student loan providers have been subjected to several investigations by state attorneys general, Congress, and governmental agencies. These investigations concern, among other things, possible deceptive practices in the marketing of private student loans and loans provided by lenders pursuant to Title IV programs. The Higher Education Opportunity Act, or HEOA, contains new requirements pertinent to relationships between lenders and institutions. In particular, HEOA requires institutions to have a code of conduct, with certain specified provisions, pertinent to interactions with lenders of student loans, prohibits certain activities by lenders and guaranty agencies with respect to institutions, and establishes substantive and disclosure requirements for lists of recommended or suggested lenders of federal and private student loans. In addition, HEOA imposes substantive and disclosure obligations on institutions that make available a list of recommended lenders for potential borrowers. On August 29, 2012, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau submitted a report to the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, the Senate HELP Committee, the House of Representatives Committee on Financial Services, and the House of Representatives Committee on Education and the Workforce entitled “Private Student Loans.” The report contained specific suggestions for Congressional action to restructure the student lending experience, including possibly requiring institutions to certify that a student is not eligible for any further federal funds before a private loan may be issued to such student. On October 16, 2012, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's Ombudsman for private student loan matters issued a report containing recommendations for the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, the Senate HELP Committee, the House Committee on Financial Services, the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and the Secretary of Education. The report addressed potential reforms to student loan servicing and expansion of loan modification and refinancing options. In addition, on October 18, 2012, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau released a report entitled “The Next Front? Student Loan Servicing and the Cost to Our Men and Women in Uniform.” The report details the challenges that some service members have encountered when utilizing private and federal student loans. In January 2013, CFPB encouraged institutions of higher education, students, and others to provide information by March 18, 2013 about the financial products and services currently offered to students, and comments on how current and future arrangements between institutions of higher education and financial institutions could be structured in order to promote positive financial decision-making among consumers. We do not know what steps Congress or federal agencies may take in response to these reports and whether such actions (if any) will have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. In addition, state legislators have also passed or may be considering legislation related to relationships between lenders and institutions. We can neither know nor predict with certainty the effects of such developments. Governmental action may impose increased administrative and regulatory costs and decreased profit margins. We are subject to sanctions that could be material to our results and damage our reputation if we fail to calculate correctly and return timely Title IV program funds for students who withdraw before completing their educational program. A school participating in Title IV programs must calculate correctly the amount of unearned Title IV program funds that have been disbursed to students who withdraw from their educational programs before completion and must return those unearned funds in a timely manner, generally within 45 days after the date the school determines that the student has withdrawn. Because we began to participate in Title IV programs in 2006 and the final regulations published on October 29, 2010 include new rules applicable to return of Title IV calculations, we have limited experience complying with these provisions. Furthermore, as discussed above, in 2012 the Department of Education found, in a conclusion with which the Company disagrees, that we failed to do so properly with respect to $1,040,851 of Title IV funds. Under Department of Education regulations, late returns of Title IV program funds for 5% or more of students sampled in connection with the institution’s annual compliance audit constitutes material noncompliance. If unearned funds are not properly calculated and timely returned, we may have to repay Title IV funds, post a letter of credit in favor of the Department of Education or otherwise be sanctioned by the Department of Education, which could increase our cost of regulatory compliance and adversely affect our results of operations. A failure to demonstrate “financial responsibility” may result in the loss of eligibility by APUS to participate in Title IV programs or require the posting of a letter of credit in order to maintain eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. To participate in Title IV programs, an eligible institution must satisfy specific measures of financial responsibility prescribed by the Department of Education, or post a letter of credit in favor of the Department of Education and possibly accept other conditions, such as provisional certification, additional reporting requirements, or regulatory oversight, on its participation in Title IV programs. The Department of Education may also apply such measures of financial responsibility to the operating company and ownership entities of an eligible institution and, if such measures are not satisfied by the operating company or ownership entities, require the institution to post a letter of credit in favor of the Department of Education and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in Title IV programs. Any obligation to post a letter of credit could increase our costs of regulatory compliance. If we were unable to secure a letter of credit, we would lose our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. In addition to the obligation to post a letter of credit under certain circumstances, an institution that is determined by the Department of Education not to be financially responsible may be transferred from the “advance” system of payment of Title IV funds, which allows the institution to obtain Title IV program funds from the Department of Education prior to making disbursements to students, to cash monitoring status or to the “reimbursement” system of payment, which requires the institution to make Title IV disbursements to students and seek reimbursement from the Department of Education. A change in our system of payment could increase our costs of regulatory compliance. If we fail to demonstrate financial responsibility and thus lose our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, our students would lose access to Title IV program funds for use in our institution, which would limit our potential for growth outside the military community and adversely affect our enrollment, revenues and results of operations. A failure to demonstrate “administrative capability” may result in the loss of APUS' eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. Department of Education regulations specify extensive criteria an institution must satisfy to establish that it has the requisite “administrative capability” to participate in Title IV programs. See “Regulation of our Business” in this annual report for more information on the Department of Education’s regulations on administrative capability. If an institution fails to satisfy any of these criteria or comply with any other Department of Education regulations, the Department of Education may require the repayment of Title IV funds, transfer the institution from the “advance” system of payment of Title IV funds to cash monitoring status or to the “reimbursement” system of payment, place the institution on provisional certification status, or commence a proceeding to impose a fine or to limit, suspend or terminate the participation of the institution in Title IV programs. If we are found not to have satisfied the Department of Education’s “administrative capability” requirements, we could be limited in our access to, or lose, Title IV program funding, which would limit our potential for growth outside the military sector and adversely affect our enrollment, revenues, and results of operations. We have limited experience internally administering our participation in Title IV programs and failure to comply with applicable regulations could cause us to lose our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. We recently determined to terminate our relationship with Global Financial Aid Services, Inc., or Global, which had assisted us with administration of our participation in Title IV programs since we began to participate in those programs in 2006, and to administer our participation in Title IV programs internally. To effect this transition, we will require cooperation and on-going assistance from Global during a period of transition. To the extent Global declines to cooperate with us, or responds to our requests for assistance in a less than timely fashion, we may not be able to effect this transition in a timely and cost-efficient manner. Furthermore, we may not realize the expected efficiencies from this transition, and given our lack of experience administering Title IV programs on our own, we may not be able to effectively do so. If our ability to comply with the requirements of Title IV programs is effected because of disputes or delays in connection with the transition process or because of problems administering Title IV programs on our own, we could be subject to the sanctions discussed in the risk factors above and it could limit our enrollments, revenues, and results of operation. We may lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if our student loan default rates are too high, and if we lose that eligibility our future growth could be impaired. An educational institution may lose its eligibility to participate in some or all Title IV programs if, for three consecutive federal fiscal years, 25% or more of its students who were required to begin repaying their student loans in the relevant federal fiscal year default on their payment by the end of the next federal fiscal year. In addition, an institution may lose its eligibility to participate in some or all Title IV programs if its default rate exceeds 40% in the most recent federal fiscal year for which default rates have been calculated by the Department of Education. HEOA modifies the Higher Education Act’s default rate provisions. Because we began only recently to enroll students who are participating in the federal student loan programs, we have no historical cohort default rate for federal fiscal year 2007 or earlier. Our cohort default rate for federal fiscal years 2008, 2009, and 2010 are 5.2%, 4.0% and 6.0%, respectively. Beginning with default rate calculations for federal fiscal year 2009, the cohort default rate will be calculated by determining the rate at which borrowers who become subject to their repayment obligation in the relevant federal fiscal year default by the end of the second following federal fiscal year. (the “three-year cohort default rate”). In September 2012, the Department of Education began publishing the official three-year cohort default rates. The Department of Education will publish the three-year cohort default rates in addition to the current method of calculating rates (described in the paragraph above) until the phase-in of the three-year measurement period is complete. As of September 2014, only the three-year cohort default rates will be applied for purposes of measuring compliance, beginning with the three-year cohort default rate for the 2011 cohort. An institution will lose its eligibility to participate in certain Title IV programs 30 days after it receives notice from the Department of Education that its most recent cohort default rate for fiscal year 2011 or later is greater than 40%. In addition, an institution may lose its eligibility to participate in certain Title IV programs 30 days after it receives notice from the Department of Education that its three most recent cohort default rates are each 30% or greater. Our official three-year cohort default rate for 2009 is 7.2%. If our student loan default rates approach the limits detailed above, we may be required to increase our efforts and resources dedicated to improving these default rates. In addition, because there is a lag between the funding of a student loan and a default thereunder, many of the borrowers who are in default or at risk of default are former students with whom we may have only limited contact. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we would be able to effectively improve our default rates or improve them in a timely manner to meet the requirements for continued participation in Title IV funding if we experience a substantial increase in our student loan default rates. If APUS loses its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs because of high student loan default rates, our students would no longer be eligible to use Title IV program funds in our institution, which would significantly reduce our enrollments and revenues and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we undergo a change in ownership and control, the Department of Education will place us on provisional certification, and the terms of that provisional certification could limit our potential for growth outside the military sector and adversely affect our enrollment, revenues, and results of operations. Department of Education regulations provide that a change of control of a publicly traded corporation occurs if: (1) there is an event that would obligate the corporation to file a Current Report on Form 8-K with the SEC disclosing a change of control or (ii) the corporation has a stockholder that owns at least 25% of the total outstanding voting stock of the corporation and is the largest stockholder of the corporation, and that stockholder ceases to own at least 25% of such stock or ceases to be the largest stockholder. A significant purchase or disposition of our voting stock could be determined by the Department of Education to be a change in ownership and control under this standard. Under the Higher Education Act, an institution that undergoes a change in ownership resulting in a change in control loses its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs and must apply to the Department of Education in order to reestablish such eligibility. During our period of provisional certification, we had to comply with any additional conditions included in our program participation agreement, which included, among other things, limitations on our operations. Our program participation agreement provided that, as a provisionally certified institution, we had to apply for and receive approval by the Secretary for any substantial change, including but not limited to establishment of additional locations, an increase in the level of academic offering, and addition of any non-degree or short-term training program. The Department of Education also had authority to review us more closely during our provisional certification. On July 2, 2010, we received a letter from the Department of Education notifying us that we are fully recertified to participate in Title IV programs through December 31, 2014. Future transactions could constitute a change in ownership or control under Department of Education regulations and could cause the Department to place us on provisional certification as require by the law when an institution undergoes a change in ownership and control. The conditions to provisional certification or closer review by the Department of Education could impact, among other things, our ability to add educational programs, acquire other schools, or make other significant changes. In addition, if the Department of Education were to determine that we were unable to meet our responsibilities while we were provisionally certified, the Department could seek to revoke our certification to participate in Title IV programs with fewer due process protections than if we were fully certified. Limitations on our operations could, and the loss of our certification to participate in Title IV programs would, adversely affect our ability to grow our presence outside the military sector in addition to having adverse effects on our enrollment, revenues, and results of operations. If regulators do not approve or delay their approval of transactions involving a change of control of our company, our ability to operate could be impaired. If we or APUS experience a change of control under the standards of applicable state education agencies, the Department of Education,The Higher Learning Commission, or other regulators, we must notify or seek the approval of each relevant regulatory agency. Transactions or events that constitute a change of control include significant acquisitions or dispositions of an institution’s common stock and significant changes in the composition of an institution’s board of directors. Some of these transactions or events may be beyond our control. Our failure to obtain, or a delay in receiving, approval of any change of control from the West Virginia Higher Education Policy Commission, the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia, the Department of Education or The Higher Learning Commission could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our failure to obtain, or a delay in receiving, approval of any change of control from other states in which we are currently licensed or authorized could require us to suspend our activities in that state or otherwise impair our operations. The potential adverse effects of a change of control could influence future decisions by us and our stockholders regarding the sale, purchase, transfer, issuance, or redemption of our stock. In addition, the regulatory burdens and risks associated with a change of control also could have an adverse effect on the market price of your shares. Our business could be harmed if we experience a disruption in our ability to receive federal funding. We collected the substantial majority of our fiscal year 2012 total consolidated net revenue from federal government funding sources, such as Title IV financial aid program funds, including from federal student loans under the Federal Direct Loan Program, DoD tuition benefits and veterans education benefits. Any processing disruptions by the U.S. Department of Education, DoD or the Department of Veterans Affairs may impact our students' ability to obtain student loans or tuition benefits, respectively, on a timely basis. If we experience a disruption in our ability to process student loans through the Direct Loan Program or to process tuition benefits for military students through DoD because of administrative challenges on our part or the inability of the Department of Education, DoD or Department of Veterans Affairs to process the volume of direct loans, military tuition benefits or veterans benefits, respectively, on a timely basis, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely and materially affected. Risks Related to Owning our Common Stock The price of our common stock may be volatile, and as a result returns on an investment in our common stock may be volatile. We completed our initial public offering in November 2007. For a significant portion of the time since our initial public offering, we have had relatively limited public float, and trading in our common stock has also been limited and, at times, volatile. An active trading market for our common stock may not be sustained, and the trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. The price of the common stock may fluctuate as a result of: ● price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; ● significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of comparable companies; ● actual or anticipated changes in our earnings, enrollments or net course registrations, or fluctuations in our operating results or in the expectations of securities analysts; ● the actual, anticipated or perceived impact of changes in government policies, laws and regulations, or similar changes made by accrediting bodies; ● the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; ● general economic conditions and trends; ● catastrophic events; ● sales of large blocks of our stock; or ● recruitment or departure of key personnel. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Because of the potential volatility of our stock price, we may become the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our business. Seasonal and other fluctuations in our results of operations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our results in any quarter may not indicate the results we may achieve in any subsequent quarter or for the full year. Our revenues and operating results normally fluctuate as a result of seasonal or other variations in our enrollments. Student population varies as a result of new enrollments, graduations, student attrition, the success of our marketing programs and other reasons that we cannot always anticipate. While our number of enrolled students has grown in each sequential quarter over the past three years, the number of enrolled students has been proportionally greatest in the fourth quarter of each respective year. A significant portion of our general and administrative expenses do not vary proportionately with fluctuations in revenues. We expect quarterly fluctuations in operating results to continue as a result of seasonal enrollment patterns. Such patterns may change, however, as a result of new program introductions and increased enrollments of students, or as a result of other factors we cannot anticipate. These fluctuations may result in volatility in our results of operations and/or have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade their evaluations of our stock, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts covering us downgrade their estimates or evaluations of our stock, the price of our stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market for our stock, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Provisions in our organizational documents and in the Delaware General Corporation Law may prevent takeover attempts that could be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions in our charter and bylaws and in the Delaware General Corporation Law may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a takeover attempt we oppose even if a change in control of our company would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. These provisions include: ● the ability of our board of directors to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the powers, preferences and rights of each series without stockholder approval, which may discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our company; ● a requirement that stockholders provide advance notice of their intention to nominate a director or to propose any other business at an annual meeting of stockholders; ● a prohibition against stockholder action by means of written consent unless otherwise approved by our board of directors in advance; and ● the application of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits us from engaging in mergers and other business combinations with stockholders that beneficially own 15% or more of our voting stock, or with their affiliates, unless our directors or stockholders approve the business combination in the prescribed manner. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 