Item 1A. Risk Factors A reduction in the number of rounds of golf played and the popularity of golf or tennis may adversely affect our sales. We generate substantially all of our net revenues from the sale of golf and tennis equipment, apparel and accessories. The demand for golf and tennis products is directly related to the popularity of golf, the number of golf participants and the number of rounds of golf being played by these participants. According to the National Golf Foundation, the number of rounds played annually in the United States declined from 518.4 million in 2000 to 501.3 million in 2005. We believe that this decline is attributable to a number of factors, including the state of the nation’s economy. If golf participation and the number of rounds of golf played decreases, sales of our products may be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that the overall dollar volume of the market for golf and tennis-related products will grow, or that it will not decline, in the future. The demand for golf products is also directly related to the popularity of magazines, cable channels and other media dedicated to golf, television coverage of golf tournaments and attendance at golf events. We depend on the exposure of the products we sell, especially the premier-branded golf merchandise, through advertising and the media or at golf tournaments and events. Any significant reduction in television coverage of, or attendance at, golf tournaments and events or any significant reduction in the popularity of golf magazines or golf channels, may reduce the visibility of the brands that we sell and could adversely affect our sales of golf products. We may be unable to expand our business if adequate capital is not available. Our ability to open new stores depends on the availability of adequate capital, which in turn depends in large part on our cash flow from operations and the availability of equity and debt financing. We currently anticipate spending approximately $1.8 million to open each additional store, which includes pre-opening expenses, capital expenditures and inventory costs. These expenditures can vary depending on the store’s size, geographic market conditions and the level of work required for the property when received from the landlord. We cannot assure you that our cash flow from operations will be sufficient or that we will be able to obtain equity or debt-financing on acceptable terms or at all to implement our growth strategy. On June 20, 2006, we completed an initial public offering of our common stock. Our stock trades on the Nasdaq Global Market under the ticker symbol “GOLF.” In the initial public offering, we sold 6,000,000 shares of common stock and received net proceeds of $61.2 million. We used these net proceeds along with borrowings under our Amended and Restated Credit Facility to retire our Senior Secured Notes with a face value of $93.75 million, to repay the entire outstanding balance of our Old Senior Secured Credit Facility, to pay fees and expenses related to our Amended and Restated Credit Facility and to pay a $3.0 million fee to terminate our management consulting agreement with First Atlantic Capital, Ltd. The completion of the initial public offering and concurrently, the completion of the Amended and Restated Credit Facility that provides for borrowings up to $65.0 million, provides us with increased financial flexibility that we believe will be helpful in executing our growth plans. The Amended and Restated Credit Facility contains provisions which restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make capital expenditures, or make substantial asset sales which might otherwise be used to finance our expansion. Our obligations under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility are secured by substantially all of our assets, which may further limit our access to capital or lending sources. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will have adequate capital to finance our current expansion plans. A reduction in discretionary consumer spending could reduce sales of golf products. Golf products are recreational in nature and are therefore discretionary purchases for consumers. Consumers are generally more willing to make discretionary golf product purchases during favorable economic conditions. Discretionary spending is affected by many factors, including general business conditions, interest rates, the availability of consumer credit, taxation and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Purchases of our products could decline during periods when disposable income is lower, or during periods of actual or perceived unfavorable economic conditions. Any significant decline in general economic conditions or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that adversely affect discretionary consumer spending, whether in the United States generally or in a particular geographic area in which one or more of our stores are located, could lead to reduced sales of our products. Our sales and profits may be adversely affected if we or our suppliers fail to develop and introduce new and innovative products that appeal to our customers. Our future success depends, in part, upon our and our suppliers’ continued ability to develop and introduce new and innovative products. This is particularly true with respect to golf clubs, which accounted for approximately 46% and 45% of our net revenues in fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively. We believe our guests’ desire to test the performance of the latest golf equipment drives traffic into our stores and increases sales. This is particularly true when significant technological advances in golf clubs and other equipment occur, although such advances generally only occur every few years. Furthermore, the success of new products depends not only upon their performance, but also upon the subjective preferences of golfers, including how a club looks, sounds and feels, and the level of popularity that a golf club enjoys among professional and recreational golfers. Our success depends, in large part, on our and our suppliers’ ability to identify and anticipate the changing preferences of our customers and our ability to stock our stores with a wide selection of merchandise that appeals to customer preferences. If we or our suppliers fail to successfully develop and introduce on a timely basis new and innovative products that appeal to our customers, our revenues and profitability may suffer. 10 Table of Contents On the other hand, if our suppliers introduce new golf clubs too rapidly, it could result in close-outs of existing inventories. Close-outs can result in reduced margins on the sale of older products, as well as reduced sales of new products given the availability of older products at lower prices. These reduced margins and sales may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Competition from new and existing competitors could have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Our principal competitors are currently other off-course specialty retailers, franchise and independent golf retailers, on-course pro shops, conventional sporting goods retailers, mass merchants and warehouse clubs, and online and catalog retailers of golf equipment. These businesses compete with us in one or more product categories. In addition, traditional sports retailers and specialty golf retailers are expanding more aggressively in marketing and supplying brand-name golf equipment, thereby competing directly with us for products, customers and locations. Some of these competitors have greater financial or marketing resources than we do and may be able to devote greater resources to sourcing, promoting and selling their products. We may also face increased competition due to the entry of new competitors, including current suppliers that decide to sell their products directly. As a result of this competition, we may experience lower sales or greater operating costs, such as marketing costs, which would have an adverse effect on our margins and our results of operations in general. Our growth will be adversely affected if we are unable to open new stores and operate them profitably. Our growth strategy involves opening additional stores in new and existing markets. We are in the early stages of our store expansion. At December 30, 2006, we had 62 stores, of which over 40% were opened in the past three fiscal years. We currently plan to open between 12 and 14 additional new stores in 2007. In addition to capital requirements, our ability to open new stores on a timely and profitable basis is subject to various contingencies, including but not limited to, our ability to successfully: • identify suitable store locations that meet our target demographics; • negotiate and enter into long-term leases upon acceptable terms; • build-out or refurbish sites on a timely and cost-effective basis; • hire, train and retain skilled managers and personnel; and • integrate new stores into existing operations. After identifying a new store site, we typically try to negotiate a long-term lease, generally between 10 and 20 years. Long-term leases typically result in long-term financial obligations that we are obligated to pay regardless of whether the store generates sufficient traffic and sales. There can be no assurance that new stores will generate sales levels necessary to achieve store-level profitability or profitability comparable to that of existing stores. New stores may also have lower sales volumes or profits compared to previously opened stores or they may have losses. In the past, we have experienced delays and cost-overruns in obtaining proper permitting, building and refurbishing stores. We cannot assure you that we will not experience these problems again, from time to time, in the future. Furthermore, our expansion into new and existing markets may present competitive, distribution, and merchandising challenges that differ from our current challenges, including competition among our stores clustered in a single market, diminished novelty of our activity-based store design and concept, added strain on our distribution and fulfillment center and management information systems, and diversion of management attention from existing operations. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in meeting the challenges described above or that any of our new stores will be a profitable deployment of our capital resources. If we fail to open additional stores successfully or if any of our new stores are not profitable, we may not be able to grow our revenues and our results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected. If our key suppliers limit the amount or variety of products they sell to us or if they fail to deliver products to us in a timely manner and upon customary pricing and payment terms, our sales and profitability may be reduced. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for a significant portion of our product sales. During fiscal 2005 and 2006, three of our suppliers each accounted for at least 10% of our purchases. We depend on access to the latest golf equipment, apparel and accessories from the premier national brands in order to attract traffic into our stores and through our direct-to-consumer channel. We do not have any long-term supply contracts with our suppliers providing for continued supply, pricing, allowances or other terms. In addition, certain of our vendors have established minimum advertised pricing requirements, which, if violated, could result in our inability to obtain certain products. If our suppliers refuse to distribute their products to us, limit the amount or variety of products they make available to us, or fail to deliver such products on a timely basis and upon customary pricing and payment terms, our sales and profitability may be reduced. 11 Table of Contents In addition, some of our proprietary products require specially developed manufacturing molds, techniques or processes which make it difficult to identify and utilize alternative suppliers quickly. Any significant production delay or the inability of our current suppliers to deliver products on a timely basis, including clubheads and shafts in sufficient quantities, or the transition to alternate suppliers, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our sales could decline if we are unable to process increased traffic or prevent security breaches on our Internet site and our network infrastructure. A key element of our strategy is to generate high-volume traffic on, and increase sales through, our Internet site. Accordingly, the satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our Internet site, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain guests. Our Internet revenues will depend on the number of visitors who shop on our Internet site and the volume of orders we can fill on a timely basis. Problems with our Internet site or order fulfillment performance would reduce the volume of goods sold and could damage our reputation. We may experience system interruptions from time to time. If there is a substantial increase in the volume of traffic on our Internet site or the number of orders placed by customers, we may be required to expand and further upgrade our technology, transaction-processing systems and network infrastructure. We cannot assure you that we will be able to accurately project the rate or timing of increases, if any, in the use of our Internet site, or that we will be able to successfully and seamlessly expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate such increases on a timely and cost-effective basis. The success of our Internet site depends on the secure transmission of confidential information over network and the Internet and on the secure storage of data. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission and storage of confidential information, such as customer credit card information. In addition, we maintain an extensive confidential database of customer profiles and transaction information. We cannot assure you that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, or other events or developments will not result in a compromise or breach of the security we use to protect customer transaction and personal data contained in our customer database. In addition, other companies in the retail sector have from time to time experienced breaches as a result of actions by their employees. If any compromise of our security were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition, and could result in a loss of customers. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could damage our reputation, cause interruptions in our operations and/or misappropriate proprietary information which, in turn, could cause us to incur liability for any resulting losses or damages. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. We lease almost all of our store locations. If we are unable to maintain those leases or locate alternative sites for our stores on terms that are acceptable us, our net revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. We lease 64 of our 65 current stores. We did not close any stores during fiscal 2006. In fiscal 2005, we closed two stores when the leases for those locations expired. In both instances, we opened a new store in similar locations during fiscal 2005. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our existing store locations as leases expire, extend the leases or be able to locate alternative sites in our target markets and on favorable terms. If we cannot maintain our existing store locations, extend the leases or locate alternative sites on favorable or acceptable terms, our net revenues, profitability and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our operating costs and profitability could be adversely affected if we are unable to accurately predict and respond to seasonal fluctuations in our business. Our business is seasonal. The golf season and the number of rounds played in the markets we serve fluctuate based on a number of factors, including the weather. Accordingly, our sales leading up to and during the warm-weather golf season, as well as the December holiday gift-giving season, have historically contributed to a higher percentage of our annual net revenues and annual net operating income than other periods in our fiscal year. The months encompassing these seasons are responsible for the majority of our annual net revenues and substantially all of our annual operating income. We make decisions regarding merchandise well in advance of the season in which it will be sold. We incur significant additional expenditures leading up to and during these periods in anticipation of higher sales, including acquiring additional inventory, preparing and mailing our catalogs, advertising, creating in-store promotions and hiring additional employees. In the event of unseasonable weather during the peak season in certain markets, our sales may be lower and we may not be able to adjust our inventory or expenses in a timely fashion. This seasonality may result in volatility or have an adverse effect on our results of operations or our financial condition. Many of our stores are clustered in particular metropolitan areas, and an economic downturn or other adverse events in these areas may significantly reduce the sales for stores located in such areas. A significant portion of our stores are clustered in certain geographic areas, including nine in the Tri-State (New York, New Jersey and Connecticut) area, seven in the San Francisco Bay area, six in the Los Angeles area, five each in the Chicago and Dallas areas, four in the Houston area and three in each of the Atlanta, Denver, Detroit and Phoenix areas. If any of these areas were to experience a downturn in economic conditions, natural disasters such as hurricanes, floods or earthquakes, terrorist attacks, or other negative events, the stores in these areas may be adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents Our comparable store sales may fluctuate, which could negatively impact our future operating performance. Our comparable store sales are affected by a variety of factors, including, among others: • guest demand in different geographic regions; • unseasonable weather during certain periods for certain geographic regions; • changes in our product mix; • our decision to relocate or refurbish certain stores; • the launch of promotional events; • the opening of new stores by us and our competitors in our existing markets; and • changes in economic conditions in the areas in which our stores are located. Our comparable store sales have fluctuated significantly in the past, and such fluctuation may continue in the future. The percentage increase or decrease in comparable store sales compared to the prior fiscal year was 0.7% in 2004, 2.6% in 2005, and 2.0% in 2006. We have experienced decreases in comparable store sales during certain quarterly periods during the last two fiscal years and we cannot assure you that our comparable store sales will not decrease again in the future. If we fail to accurately target the appropriate segment of the consumer catalog market or if we fail to achieve adequate response rates to our catalogs, our sales and profitability may be adversely affected. Our results of operations depend in part on the success of our direct-to-consumer channel, which consists of our Internet site and multiple catalogs. Within our direct-to-consumer distribution channel, we believe that the success of our catalog operations also contributes to the success of our Internet site, because many of our guests who receive catalogs choose to purchase products through our Internet site. We believe that the success of our catalogs depends on our ability to: • achieve adequate response rates to our mailings; • offer an attractive merchandise mix; • cost-effectively add new guests; • cost-effectively design and produce appealing catalogs; and • timely deliver products ordered through our catalogs to our guests. We have historically experienced fluctuations in the response rates to our catalog mailings. If we fail to achieve adequate response rates, we could experience lower sales, significant markdowns or write-offs of inventory and lower margins, which could materially and adversely affect our sales, profitability and financial condition. If we lose the services of our executive officers, we may not be able to manage our operations and implement our growth strategy effectively. We depend on the continued service of our executive officers, who possess significant expertise and knowledge of our business and industry. Currently, we do not maintain key person insurance for any of our officers or managers. Any loss or interruption of the services of a group or several of our executive officers could significantly reduce our ability to effectively manage our operations and implement our growth strategy, and we cannot assure you that we would be able to timely find appropriate replacements should the need arise. Atlantic Equity Partners III, L.P. has significant influence over us, including the ability to nominate a majority of our board of directors, and its interests may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. The largest beneficial owner of our shares, Atlantic Equity Partners III, L.P. (“Atlantic Equity Partners”), an investment fund managed by First Atlantic Capital, Ltd. (“First Atlantic Capital”), beneficially owns 60.0% of our outstanding common stock. This includes 9.7% of our outstanding stock owned by Carl and Franklin Paul over which First Atlantic Capital has voting rights pursuant to a voting rights and stockholders’ agreement among Atlantic Equity Partners and Carl and Franklin Paul. Under the agreement, Carl and Franklin Paul have also agreed that they will only transfer the shares subject to the agreement on a pro rata basis when Atlantic Equity Partners transfers its shares. As a result of its own stockholdings and this agreement, Atlantic Equity Partners, and indirectly First Atlantic Capital, will have the ability to control all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including: • the composition of our board of directors, which has the authority to direct our business and appoint and remove our officers; • approving or rejecting a merger, consolidation or other business combination; and • amending our certificate of incorporation and bylaws which govern the rights attached to our common stock. 13 Table of Contents In addition, we and Atlantic Equity Partners have entered into a management rights agreement. Pursuant to this agreement, following a reduction of the equity owned by Atlantic Equity Partners to below 50% of our outstanding equity, it will retain the right to cause the board of directors to nominate a specified number of designees for the board of directors, and continue to be able to significantly influence our decisions. This concentration of ownership of our common stock could delay lead to or affect the results of possible proxy contests, mergers, acquisitions, tender offers, purchases or sales of assets, open-market purchase programs or other public or private transactions involving our common stock or other securities. Our sales, profitability and company-wide operations would be adversely affected if the operations of our Austin, Texas call center or distribution and fulfillment center were interrupted or shut down. We operate a centralized call center and distribution and fulfillment center in Austin, Texas. We handle almost all our Internet site and catalog orders through our Austin facility. We also receive and ship a significant portion of our retail stores’ inventory through our Austin facility. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption to this facility would substantially disrupt our operations and could damage all or a portion of our inventory at this facility, impairing our ability to adequately stock our stores and fulfill guest orders. In addition, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with fulfilling our direct-to-consumer orders and distributing our products to our stores during the time it takes for us to reopen or replace our Austin facility. As a result, a disruption at our Austin facility would adversely affect our sales, profitability, financial condition and operations throughout our company. A disruption in the service or a significant increase in the cost of our primary delivery service for our direct-to-consumer operations would have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. We use United Parcel Service, or UPS, for substantially all of our ground shipments of products sold through our Internet site and catalogs to our guests in the United States. Any significant disruption to UPS’s services would impede our ability to deliver our products through our direct-to-consumer channel, which could cause us to lose sales or guests. In addition, if UPS were to significantly increase its shipping charges, we may not be able to pass these additional shipping costs on to our guests and still maintain the same level of direct-to-consumer sales. In the event of disruption to UPS’s services or a significant increase in its shipping charges, we may not be able to engage alternative carriers to deliver our products in a timely manner on favorable terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales, profitability and financial condition. An increase in the costs of mailing, paper, and printing our catalogs would adversely affect our profitability. Unlike many of our competitors, we generate a significant percentage of our revenues through our direct-to-consumer channel, including catalog orders. Postal rate increases and paper and printing costs affect the cost of our catalog mailings. We rely on discounts from the basic postal rate structure, such as discounts for bulk mailings and sorting by zip code and carrier routes for our catalogs. We are not a party to any long-term contracts for the supply of paper. Our cost of paper has fluctuated significantly during the past three fiscal years, and our future paper costs are subject to supply and demand forces external to our business. A material increase in postal rates or printing or paper costs for our catalogs could materially decrease our profitability. If we are unable to enforce our intellectual property rights, our net revenues and profitability may decline. Our success and ability to compete are dependent, in part, on sales of our proprietary-branded merchandise. We currently hold a substantial number of registrations for trademarks and service marks to protect our own proprietary brands. We also rely to a lesser extent on trade secret, patent and copyright protection, employee confidentiality agreements and license agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. We believe that the exclusive right to use trademarks and service marks has helped establish our market share. If we are unable to continue to protect the trademarks and service marks for our proprietary brands, if such marks become generic or if third parties adopt marks similar to our marks, our ability to differentiate our products and services may be diminished. In the event that our trademarks or service marks are successfully challenged by third parties, we could lose brand recognition and be forced to devote additional resources to advertising and marketing new brands for our products. From time to time, we may be compelled to protect our intellectual property, which may involve litigation. Such litigation may be time-consuming, expensive and distract our management from running the day-to-day operations of our business, and could result in the impairment or loss of the involved intellectual property. There is no guarantee that the steps we take to protect our intellectual property, including litigation when necessary, will be successful. The loss or reduction of any of our significant intellectual property rights could diminish our ability to distinguish our products from competitors’ products and retain our market share for our proprietary products. Our proprietary products sold under our proprietary brands generate higher margins than products sold under third party manufacturer brands. If we are unable to effectively protect our proprietary intellectual property rights and fewer of our sales come from our proprietary products, our net revenues and profits may decline. We may become subject to intellectual property suits that could cause us to incur substantial costs or pay substantial damages or prohibit us from selling our products. Third parties may from time to time assert claims against us alleging infringement, misappropriation or other violations of patent, trademark or other proprietary rights, whether or not such claims have merit. Such claims can be time consuming and expensive to defend and may divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Claims for alleged 14 Table of Contents infringement and any resulting lawsuit, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for damages, increase the costs of selling some of our products and damage our reputation. Any potential intellectual property litigation could also force us to stop selling certain products, obtain a license from the owner to use the relevant intellectual property, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all, or redesign our products to avoid using the relevant intellectual property. We may be subject to product warranty claims or product recalls which could harm our reputation, adversely affect our sales and cause us to incur substantial costs or pay substantial damages. We may be subject to risks associated with our proprietary-branded products, including product liability. Our existing or future proprietary products may contain design or materials defects, which could subject us to product liability claims and product recalls. Although we maintain limited product liability insurance, if any successful product liability claim or product recall is not covered by or exceeds our insurance coverage, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. In addition, product recalls could adversely affect our reputation in the marketplace and, in turn, sales of our products. In May 2002, we learned that some of our proprietary products sold in the prior two years were not manufactured in accordance with their design specifications. Upon discovery of this discrepancy, we offered our customers refunds, replacements or gift certificates. As a result, in fiscal 2002 we recognized $300,000 in product return and replacement expenses. We cannot assure you that problems like this will not happen again in the future, or if they do, that the costs and other adverse consequences will not be more severe. In addition, it is possible that we could face similar risks with respect to the premier-branded products we sell. Disruption of operations of ports through which our products are imported from Asia could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. We import substantially all of our proprietary products from Asia under short-term purchase orders, and a significant amount of the premier-branded products we sell is also manufactured in Asia. If a disruption occurs in the operations of ports from which our products are exported or through which our products are imported, we and our vendors may have to ship some or all of our products from Asia by air freight. Shipping by air is significantly more expensive than shipping by boat, and if we cannot pass these increased shipping costs on to our guests, our profitability will be reduced. A disruption at ports through which our products are imported would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may pursue strategic acquisitions, which could have an adverse impact on our sales and operating results, and could divert the attention of our management. Although we currently do not have any agreement or understanding to make any acquisitions, from time to time, we may grow our business by acquiring complementary businesses, products or technologies. Acquisitions that we may make in the future entail a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Negotiating potential acquisitions or integrating newly acquired businesses, products or technologies into our business could divert our management’s attention from other business concerns and could be expensive and time-consuming. Acquisitions could expose our business to unforeseen liabilities or risks associated with entering new markets or businesses. In addition, we might lose key employees while integrating new organizations. Consequently, we might not be successful in integrating any acquired businesses, products or technologies, and might not achieve anticipated sales and cost benefits. In addition, future acquisitions could result in customer dissatisfaction, performance problems with an acquired company, or issuances of equity securities that cause dilution to our existing stockholders. Furthermore, we may incur contingent liabilities or possible impairment charges related to goodwill or other intangible assets or other unanticipated events or circumstances, any of which could harm our financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 