Item 1A. Risk Factors A reduction in the number of rounds of golf played or a decline in popularity of golf or tennis may adversely affect our sales. We generate substantially all of our net revenues from the sale of golf and tennis equipment, apparel and accessories. The demand for golf and tennis products is directly related to the popularity of golf and tennis, the number of golf and tennis participants and the number of rounds of golf being played in the United States. If golf participation and the number of rounds of golf played decrease, sales of our products may be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that the overall dollar volume of the market for golf and tennis-related products will grow, or that it will not decline, in the future. For example, in 2007, rounds played decreased by 0.5% and our comparable store percentage decreased by 3.7%. Accordingly, as rounds played increase or decrease in the future, we cannot provide any assurance that our revenues will increase or decrease proportionately. The demand for golf products is also directly related to the popularity of magazines, cable channels and other media dedicated to golf, television coverage of golf tournaments and attendance at golf events. We depend on the exposure of the products we sell, especially the premier-branded golf merchandise, through advertising and the media or at golf tournaments and events. Any significant reduction in television coverage of, or attendance at, golf tournaments and events or any significant reduction in the popularity of golf magazines or golf channels, may reduce the visibility of the brands that we sell and could cause a decrease in our sales of golf products, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our operating costs and profitability could be adversely affected if we are unable to accurately predict and respond to seasonal fluctuations in our business. Our business is seasonal. The golf season and the number of rounds played in the markets we serve fluctuate based on a number of factors, including the weather. Accordingly, our sales leading up to and during the warm-weather golf season, as well as the December holiday gift-giving season, have historically contributed to a higher percentage of our annual net revenues and annual net operating income than other periods in our fiscal year. The months encompassing these seasons are responsible for the majority of our annual net revenues and substantially all of our annual operating income. We make decisions regarding merchandise well in advance of the season in which it will be sold. We incur significant additional expenditures leading up to and during these periods in anticipation of higher sales, including acquiring additional inventory, preparing and mailing our catalogs, advertising, creating in-store promotions and hiring additional employees. In the event of unseasonable weather during the peak season in certain markets, our sales may be lower and we may not be able to adjust our inventory or expenses in a timely fashion. This seasonality may result in volatility or have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A reduction in discretionary consumer spending could reduce sales of golf products. Golf products are recreational in nature and are therefore discretionary purchases for consumers. Consumers are generally more willing to make discretionary golf product purchases during favorable economic conditions. Discretionary spending is affected by many factors, including general business conditions, cost of living, interest rates, the availability of consumer credit, taxation and consumer confidence in current and future economic conditions. Purchases of our products could decline during periods when disposable income is lower, or during periods of actual or perceived unfavorable economic conditions. Any significant decline in discretionary spending or general economic conditions or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that adversely affect discretionary consumer spending, whether in the United States generally or in a particular geographic area in which one or more of our stores are located, could lead to reduced sales of our products and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Competition from new and existing competitors will have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Our principal competitors are currently other off-course specialty retailers, franchise and independent golf retailers, on-course pro shops, conventional sporting goods retailers, mass merchants and warehouse clubs, and online and catalog retailers of golf equipment. These businesses compete with us in one or more product categories. In addition, traditional sports retailers and specialty golf retailers are expanding more aggressively in marketing and selling brand-name golf equipment, thereby competing directly with us for products, customers and locations. Some of these competitors have greater financial or marketing resources than we do and may be able to devote greater resources to sourcing, promoting and selling their products. We may also face increased competition due to the entry of new competitors, including current suppliers that decide to sell their products directly. As a result of this competition, we may experience lower sales or greater operating costs, such as marketing costs, which would have an adverse effect on our margins and our results of operations in general. Some of our markets are growing increasingly competitive, specifically the Atlanta, Georgia, Dallas, Texas and Phoenix, Arizona markets. Significant competitors are opening larger store formats in close geographic proximity to some of our store locations in these markets. As a result certain stores are experiencing decreased revenues and margin pressure. We expect the increase in competition in the specialty golf and tennis retail industry, as well as in other competitive channels, to continue, which could negatively impact our results from operations and financial condition. In addition to increased competition, our higher profit margin club component business has been in decline for the last several years and may continue to decline, thus negatively impacting our results from operations and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents If we cannot hire a new Chief Executive Officer and maintain continuity of our executive team, our ability to effectively manage ongoing operations may be negatively impacted. In January 2008, James D. Thompson, our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) for the previous five years resigned, and his role has been filled on an interim basis by the Chairman of the Board, Martin Hanaka. We have initiated a search for a new CEO and are seeking to fill the position within the next three to six months. If we are unable to fill the position or to attract and retain a person with talent necessary for implementing our plan, our ability to effectively manage our ongoing operations may be negatively impacted, and adversely affect our results from operations and financial condition. We depend on the continued service of our executive officers, who possess significant expertise and knowledge of our business and industry. Currently, we do not maintain key person insurance for any of our officers or managers. We may be unable to expand our business if adequate capital is not available. Our ability to open new stores depends on the availability of adequate capital, which in turn depends in large part on our cash flow from operations and the availability of equity and debt financing. Historically, we have spent approximately $1.8 million, net of tenant allowances and extended vendor terms, to open each additional store, which includes pre-opening expenses, capital expenditures and inventory costs. These expenditures can vary depending on the store’s size, geographic market conditions and the level of work required for the property when received from the landlord. We cannot assure you that our cash flow from operations will be sufficient or that we will be able to obtain equity or debt-financing on acceptable terms or at all to implement a growth strategy and we provide no assurances about our future growth or expansion. Our Amended and Restated Credit Facility contains provisions which restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, or make substantial asset sales which might otherwise be used to finance our expansion. Our obligations under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility are secured by substantially all of our assets, which may further limit our access to capital or lending sources. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will have adequate capital to finance our current expansion plans. If we fail to regain compliance with Nasdaq’s audit committee requirements, our common stock may be delisted from the Nasdaq Global Select Market, which may reduce the price of our common stock and levels of liquidity available to our stockholders. Our continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Market requires us to comply with Nasdaq’s audit committee requirements. Upon his appointment as our interim Chief Executive Officer, Martin Hanaka, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company, and previously an independent director and a member of our Audit Committee, resigned from the Audit Committee in order to comply with the Audit Committee independence requirement as set forth in Marketplace Rule 4350 of Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. (“Nasdaq”), leaving two independent directors on that committee. Because Rule 4350 requires a listed issuer to have an audit committee consisting of at least three independent directors, we received a Staff Determination letter from Nasdaq stating that we are no longer compliant with the requirements for continued listing. Consistent with Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(d)(4), Nasdaq provided us with a cure period until July 7, 2008 in order to regain compliance. We may not be able to identify and attract a suitable candidate who will be deemed independent under the Nasdaq marketplace rules for our Audit Committee prior to July 7, 2008. If we fail to regain compliance with Nasdaq’s audit committee requirements, our common stock may be delisted from the Nasdaq Global Select Market. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the Listing Council will determine to continue the listing of our common stock on Nasdaq. If our common stock is delisted, it may become more difficult for our stockholders to sell our stock in the public market and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Delisting from Nasdaq could also result in other negative implications including the potential loss or reduction of confidence by customers, creditors, suppliers and employees, the potential loss or reduction of investor interest, and fewer business development opportunities, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to generate consistent positive cash flows at individual store locations we may be required to record future impairments of assets at our stores. If an individual store fails to produce positive cash flows at any point in time, if we anticipate that it may fail to produce positive cash flows or if we believe that an alternative location may be better, we may decide to discontinue operations at that location. If we decide to discontinue operations at any location, the existing assets at such location may be impaired to the extent that their carrying value exceeds an amount that represents the expected future cash flows. In fiscal 2007 we recorded a $1.4 million impairment of long-lived assets at certain stores. Such future impairments could negatively impact our results from operations and financial condition. Our sales and profits may be adversely affected if we or our suppliers fail to develop and introduce new and innovative products that appeal to our customers. Our future success depends, in part, upon our and our suppliers’ continued ability to develop and introduce new and innovative products. This is particularly true with respect to golf clubs, which accounted for approximately 47% and 46% of our net revenues in fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively. We believe our customers’ desire to test the performance of the latest golf equipment drives traffic 13 Table of Contents into our stores and increases sales. This is particularly true when significant technological advances in golf clubs and other equipment occur, although such advances generally only occur every few years. Furthermore, the success of new products depends not only upon their performance, but also upon the subjective preferences of golfers, including how a club looks, sounds and feels, and the level of popularity that a golf club enjoys among professional and recreational golfers. Our success depends, in large part, on our and our suppliers’ ability to identify and anticipate the changing preferences of our customers and our ability to stock our stores with a wide selection of merchandise that appeals to customer preferences. If we or our suppliers fail to successfully develop and introduce on a timely basis new and innovative products that appeal to our customers, our revenues and profitability may suffer. On the other hand, the introduction of new golf clubs or other equipment by our suppliers could result in close-outs of existing inventories. Close-outs can result in reduced margins on the sale of older products, as well as reduced sales of new products given the availability of older products at lower prices. These reduced margins and sales may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our growth will be adversely affected if we are unable to open new stores and operate them profitably. Our growth strategy involves opening additional stores in new and existing markets albeit at a slower rate in 2008 than in past years. At December 29, 2007, we operated 74 stores, of which almost 40% were opened in the past three fiscal years. In addition to capital requirements, our ability to open new stores on a timely and profitable basis is subject to various contingencies, including but not limited to, our ability to successfully: • identify suitable store locations that meet our target demographics; • negotiate and enter into long-term leases with acceptable terms; • build-out or refurbish sites on a timely and cost-effective basis; • hire, train and retain skilled managers and personnel; and • integrate new stores into existing operations. After identifying a new store site, we typically try to negotiate a lease with a base term of approximately 10 years. Our leases typically result in financial obligations that we are obligated to pay regardless of whether the store generates sufficient traffic and sales. New stores may also have lower sales volumes or profits compared to previously opened stores or they may have losses. In the past, from time to time, we have experienced delays and cost-overruns in obtaining proper permitting, building and refurbishing stores. We anticipate that we may experience these problems again in the future. Furthermore, our expansion into new and existing markets may present competitive, distribution, and merchandising challenges that differ from our current challenges, including competition among our stores clustered in a single market, diminished novelty of our activity-based store design and concept, added strain on our distribution and fulfillment center and management information systems, and diversion of management attention from existing operations. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in meeting the challenges described above or that any of our new stores will be a profitable deployment of our capital resources. If we fail to open additional stores successfully we may not be able to grow our revenues, and furthermore additional stores may not be profitable. If we are unable to grow revenues from the successful opening of additional stores, or if such additional stores are not profitable our results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected. If our key suppliers limit the amount or variety of products they sell to us or if they fail to deliver products to us in a timely manner and upon customary pricing and payment terms, our sales and profitability may be reduced. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for a significant portion of our product sales. During fiscal 2006 and 2007, three of our suppliers each accounted for at least 10% of our purchases. We depend on access to the latest golf equipment, apparel and accessories from the premier national brands in order to attract traffic into our stores and through our direct-to-consumer channel. We do not have any long-term supply contracts with our suppliers providing for continued supply, pricing, allowances or other terms. In addition, certain of our vendors have established minimum advertised pricing requirements, which, if violated, could result in our inability to obtain certain products. If our suppliers refuse to distribute their products to us, limit the amount or variety of products they make available to us, or fail to deliver such products on a timely basis and upon customary pricing and payment terms, our sales and profitability may be reduced, which could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, some of our proprietary products require specially developed manufacturing molds, techniques or processes which make it difficult to identify and utilize alternative suppliers quickly. Any significant production delay or the inability of our current suppliers to deliver products on a timely basis, including clubheads and shafts in sufficient quantities, or the transition to alternate suppliers, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our sales could decline if we are unable to process increased traffic or prevent security breaches on our Internet site and our network infrastructure. 14 Table of Contents A key element of our strategy is to generate high-volume traffic on, and increase sales through, our Internet site. Accordingly, the satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our Internet site, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain customers. Our Internet revenues will depend on the number of visitors who shop on our Internet site and the volume of orders we can fill on a timely basis. Problems with our Internet site or order fulfillment performance would reduce the volume of goods sold and could damage our reputation. We may experience system interruptions from time to time. If there is a substantial increase in the volume of traffic on our Internet site or the number of orders placed by customers, we may be required to expand and further upgrade our technology, transaction-processing systems and network infrastructure. We cannot assure you that we will be able to accurately project the rate or timing of increases, if any, in the use of our Internet site, or that we will be able to successfully and seamlessly expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate such increases on a timely and cost-effective basis. The success of our Internet site depends on the secure transmission of confidential information over network and the Internet and on the secure storage of data. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission and storage of confidential information, such as customer credit card information. In addition, we maintain an extensive confidential database of customer profiles and transaction information. We cannot assure you that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, or other events or developments will not result in a compromise or breach of the security we use to protect customer transaction and personal data contained in our customer database. In addition, other companies in the retail sector have from time to time experienced breaches as a result of actions by their employees. If any compromise of our security were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition, and could result in a loss of customers. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could damage our reputation, cause interruptions in our operations and/or misappropriate proprietary information which, in turn, could cause us to incur liability for any resulting losses or damages. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches thereby adversely impacting our results from operations and financial condition. We lease almost all of our store locations. If we are unable to maintain those leases or locate alternative sites for our stores on terms that are acceptable us, our net revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. We leased 73 of the 74 stores that we were operating at December 29, 2007. We did not close any stores due to expiring leases during fiscal years 2007 or 2006. In fiscal 2005, we closed two stores when the leases for those locations expired. In both instances, we opened a new store in similar locations during fiscal 2005. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our existing store locations as leases expire, extend the leases or be able to locate alternative sites in our target markets and on favorable terms. If we cannot maintain our existing store locations, extend the leases or locate alternative sites on favorable or acceptable terms, results from operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Many of our stores are clustered in particular metropolitan areas, and an economic downturn or other adverse events in these areas may significantly reduce the sales for stores located in such areas. A significant portion of our stores are clustered in certain geographic areas, including eleven in the Tri-State (New York, New Jersey and Connecticut) area, seven in the San Francisco Bay area, six in the Los Angeles area, five each in the Chicago and Dallas areas, four in the Houston area and three in each of the Atlanta, Denver, Detroit, Minneapolis and Phoenix areas. If any of these areas were to experience a downturn in economic conditions, natural disasters such as hurricanes, floods or earthquakes, terrorist attacks, or other negative events, the stores in these areas may be adversely affected thereby adversely impacting our results from operations and financial condition. Our comparable store sales may decline, which could negatively impact our future operating performance. Our comparable store sales are affected by a variety of factors, including, among others: • customer demand in different geographic regions; • unseasonable weather during certain periods for certain geographic regions; • changes in our product mix; • our decision to relocate or refurbish certain stores; • the launch of promotional events; • the opening of new stores by us and our competitors in our existing markets; and • changes in economic conditions in the areas in which our stores are located. Our comparable store sales have fluctuated significantly in the past, and such fluctuation may continue in the future. The percentage increase or decrease in comparable store sales compared to the prior fiscal year was (3.7%) in 2007, 2.0% in 2006 and 2.6% in 2005, respectively. We have experienced decreases in comparable store sales during certain quarterly periods during the last two fiscal years and we cannot assure you that our comparable store sales will not decrease again in the future. Some of our markets are growing 15 Table of Contents increasingly competitive, specifically the Dallas, Texas and Atlanta, Georgia markets. We expect the increase in competition in the golf and tennis retail industry to continue, which could negatively impact revenues and therefore operating income. In addition to increased competition, our higher profit margin club component business has been in decline for the last several years and may continue to decline, thus negatively impacting our results from operations and financial condition. If we fail to generate sufficient revenue from our proprietary-branded products, we may have future impairments of trademark and trade-name intangible assets. The carrying value of the trademark and trade-name intangible assets on our balance sheet are supported by estimated future positive cash flows generated by our proprietary-branded products. If we fail to create products that appeal to customers and produce sufficient future revenues, our future estimates may be overstated, which could result in an impairment of our intangible assets and thereby adversely impact our results from operations and financial condition. If we fail to accurately target the appropriate segment of the consumer catalog market or if we fail to achieve adequate response rates to our catalogs, our sales and profitability may be adversely affected. Our results of operations depend in part on the success of our direct-to-consumer channel, which consists of our Internet site and multiple catalogs. Within our direct-to-consumer distribution channel, we believe that the success of our catalog operations also contributes to the success of our Internet site, because many of our customers who receive catalogs choose to purchase products through our Internet site. We believe that the success of our catalogs depends on our ability to: • achieve adequate response rates to our mailings; • offer an attractive merchandise mix; • cost-effectively add new customers; • cost-effectively design and produce appealing catalogs; and • timely deliver products ordered through our catalogs to our customers. We have historically experienced fluctuations in the response rates to our catalog mailings. If we fail to achieve adequate response rates, we could experience lower sales, significant markdowns or write-offs of inventory and lower margins, which could adversely impact our results from operations and financial condition. Atlantic Equity Partners III, L.P. has significant influence over us, including the ability to nominate a majority of our board of directors, and its interests may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. The largest beneficial owner of our shares, Atlantic Equity Partners III, L.P. (“Atlantic Equity Partners”), an investment fund managed by First Atlantic Capital, Ltd. (“First Atlantic Capital”), has voting rights equal to 60.0% of our outstanding common stock. This includes 9.7% of our outstanding stock owned by Carl and Franklin Paul over which First Atlantic Capital has voting rights pursuant to a voting rights and stockholders’ agreement among Atlantic Equity Partners and Carl and Franklin Paul. Under the agreement, Carl and Franklin Paul have also agreed that they will only transfer the shares subject to the agreement on a pro rata basis when Atlantic Equity Partners transfers its shares. As a result of its own stockholdings and this agreement, Atlantic Equity Partners, and indirectly First Atlantic Capital, will have the ability to control all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including: • the composition of our board of directors, which has the authority to direct our business and appoint and remove our officers; • approving or rejecting a merger, consolidation or other business combination; and • amending our certificate of incorporation and bylaws which govern the rights attached to our common stock. In addition, we and Atlantic Equity Partners have entered into a management rights agreement. Pursuant to this agreement, following a reduction of the equity owned by Atlantic Equity Partners to below 50% of our outstanding equity, it will retain the right to cause the board of directors to nominate a specified number of designees for the board of directors, and continue to be able to significantly influence our decisions. This concentration of ownership of our common stock could delay, lead to or affect the results of possible proxy contests, mergers, acquisitions, tender offers, purchases or sales of assets, open-market purchase programs or other public or private transactions involving our common stock or other securities. Our sales, profitability and company-wide operations would be adversely affected if the operations of our Austin, Texas call center or distribution and fulfillment center were interrupted or shut down. We operate a centralized call center and distribution and fulfillment center in Austin, Texas. We handle almost all our Internet site and catalog orders through our Austin facility. We also receive and ship a significant portion of our retail stores’ inventory through our Austin facility. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption to this facility would substantially disrupt our operations and could damage all or a portion of our inventory at this facility, impairing our ability to adequately stock our stores and fulfill customer orders. 16 Table of Contents In addition, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with fulfilling our direct-to-consumer orders and distributing our products to our stores during the time it takes for us to reopen or replace our Austin facility. As a result, a disruption at our Austin facility could adversely affect our results from operations and financial condition.. A disruption in the service or a significant increase in the cost of our primary delivery service for our direct-to-consumer operations would have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. We use a third-party vendor for substantially all of our ground shipments of products sold through our Internet site and catalogs to our customers in the United States. Any significant disruption to our third-party vendors’ services would impede our ability to deliver our products through our direct-to-consumer channel, which could cause us to lose sales or customers. In addition, if our third-party vendor were to significantly increase its shipping charges, we may not be able to pass these additional shipping costs on to our customers and still maintain the same level of direct-to-consumer sales. In the event of disruption to our third-party vendors’ services or a significant increase in its shipping charges, we may not be able to engage alternative carriers to deliver our products in a timely manner on favorable terms, which could have a material adverse effect our results from operations and financial condition. An increase in the costs of mailing, paper, and printing our catalogs would adversely affect our profitability. In the 2007 fiscal year we generated a 20.6% of our revenues through our direct-to-consumer channel, including catalog orders. Postal rate increases and paper and printing costs affect the cost of our catalog mailings. We rely on discounts from the basic postal rate structure, such as discounts for bulk mailings and sorting by zip code and carrier routes for our catalogs. We are not a party to any long-term contracts for the supply of paper. Our cost of paper has fluctuated significantly during the past three fiscal years, and our future paper costs are subject to supply and demand forces external to our business. A material increase in postal rates or printing or paper costs for our catalogs could have a material adverse effect our results from operations and financial condition. If we are unable to enforce our intellectual property rights, our net revenues and profitability may decline. Our success and ability to compete are dependent, in part, on sales of our proprietary-branded merchandise. We currently hold a substantial number of registrations for trademarks and service marks to protect our own proprietary brands. We also rely to a lesser extent on trade secret, patent and copyright protection, employee confidentiality agreements and license agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. We believe that the exclusive right to use trademarks and service marks has helped establish our market share. If we are unable to continue to protect the trademarks and service marks for our proprietary brands, if such marks become generic or if third parties adopt marks similar to our marks, our ability to differentiate our products and services may be diminished. In the event that our trademarks or service marks are successfully challenged by third parties, we could lose brand recognition and we may need to devote additional resources to advertising and marketing new brands for our products to try to recoup the revenues lost. From time to time, we may be compelled to protect our intellectual property, which may involve litigation. Such litigation may be time-consuming, expensive and distract our management from running the day-to-day operations of our business, and could result in the impairment or loss of the involved intellectual property. There is no guarantee that the steps we take to protect our intellectual property, including litigation when necessary, will be successful. The loss or reduction of any of our significant intellectual property rights could diminish our ability to distinguish our products from competitors’ products and retain our market share for our proprietary products. Our proprietary products sold under our proprietary brands generate higher margins than products sold under third party manufacturer brands. If we are unable to effectively protect our proprietary intellectual property rights and fewer of our sales come from our proprietary products, our results from operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. We may become subject to intellectual property suits that could cause us to incur substantial costs or pay substantial damages or prohibit us from selling our products. Third parties may from time to time assert claims against us alleging infringement, misappropriation or other violations of patent, trademark or other proprietary rights, whether or not such claims have merit. Such claims can be time consuming and expensive to defend and may divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Claims for alleged infringement and any resulting lawsuit, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for damages, increase the costs of selling some of our products and damage our reputation. Any potential intellectual property litigation could also force us to stop selling certain products, obtain a license from the owner to use the relevant intellectual property, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all, or redesign our products to avoid using the relevant intellectual property. We may be subject to product warranty claims or product recalls which could harm our reputation, adversely affect our sales and cause us to incur substantial costs or pay substantial damages. We may be subject to risks associated with our proprietary-branded products, including product liability. Our existing or future proprietary products may contain design or materials defects, which could subject us to product liability claims and product recalls. Although we maintain limited product liability insurance, if any successful product liability claim or product recall is not covered by or exceeds our insurance coverage, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. In addition, product recalls could adversely affect our reputation in the marketplace and, in turn, sales of our products, which could adversely affect our results from operations and our financial condition. 17 Table of Contents Disruption of operations of ports through which our products are imported from Asia could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. We import substantially all of our proprietary products from Asia under short-term purchase orders, and a significant amount of the premier-branded products we sell is also manufactured in Asia. If a disruption occurs in the operations of ports from which our products are exported or through which our products are imported, we and our vendors may have to ship some or all of our products from Asia by air freight. Shipping by air is significantly more expensive than shipping by boat, and if we cannot pass these increased shipping costs on to our customers, our profitability will be reduced. A disruption at ports through which our products are imported would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may pursue strategic acquisitions, which could have an adverse impact on our sales and operating results, and could divert the attention of our management. Although we currently do not have any agreement or understanding to make any acquisitions, from time to time, we may grow our business by acquiring complementary businesses, products or technologies. Acquisitions that we may make in the future entail a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Negotiating potential acquisitions or integrating newly acquired businesses, products or technologies into our business could divert our management’s attention from other business concerns and could be expensive and time-consuming. Acquisitions could expose our business to unforeseen liabilities or risks associated with entering new markets or businesses. In addition, we might lose key employees while integrating new organizations. Consequently, we might not be successful in integrating any acquired businesses, products or technologies, and might not achieve anticipated sales and cost benefits. In addition, future acquisitions could result in customer dissatisfaction, performance problems with an acquired company, or issuances of equity securities that cause dilution to our existing stockholders. Furthermore, we may incur contingent liabilities or possible impairment charges related to goodwill or other intangible assets or other unanticipated events or circumstances, any of which could adversely affect our results from operations or financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 