Item 1A. Risk Factors Our success depends on the popularity of golf. We generate substantially all of our net revenues from the sale of golf equipment, apparel and accessories. The demand for golf products is directly related to the popularity of golf, the number of golf participants and the number of rounds of golf being played by these participants. According to the National Golf Foundation, the number of rounds played annually in the United States declined from 518.4 million in 2000 to 499.6 million in 2005. This decline is attributable to a number of factors, including the state of the nation’s economy. If golf participation and the number of rounds of golf played decreases, sales of our products may be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that the overall dollar volume of the market for golf-related products will grow, or that it will not decline, in the future. The demand for golf products is also directly related to the popularity of magazines, cable channels and other media dedicated to golf, television coverage of golf tournaments and attendance at golf events. We depend on the exposure of the products we sell, especially the premier branded golf merchandise, through advertising and the media or at golf tournaments and events. Any significant reduction in television coverage of, or attendance at, golf tournaments and events or any significant reduction in the popularity of golf magazines or golf channels, may reduce the visibility of the brands that we sell and could adversely affect our sales. We may not be able to incur additional indebtedness or secure alternate funds, if needed, to expand our business or compete effectively and, as a result, our net revenues and profitability may be materially affected. The indenture governing our senior secured notes and our senior secured credit facility limit almost completely our ability to borrow additional funds. We believe that the terms of the liens securing our senior secured credit facility and our senior secured notes effectively preclude us from borrowing additional funds, other than under our senior credit facility. As a result, to the extent that we do not have borrowing availability under our senior credit facility we will have to fund our operations, including new store openings and capital expenditures as well as any future acquisitions, with cash flow from operations. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from our operations to fund these expenditures, we may not be able to compete effectively and our sales and profitability would likely be materially adversely affected. Our ability to open new stores depends on the availability of adequate capital, which in turn depends in large part on our cash flow from operations and the availability of equity and debt financing. We currently anticipate spending approximately $1.8 million to open each additional store, which includes pre-opening expenses, capital expenditures and inventory costs. We cannot assure you that our cash flow from operations will be sufficient or that we will be able to obtain equity or debt financing on acceptable terms or at all to implement our growth strategy. On March 14, 2006, we filed a Registration Statement on Form S-1 with the Securities and Exchange Commission proposing the registration of shares of our common stock under an initial public offering. Estimated proceeds from this offering of $115 million are expected to be used: (1) to retire the principle amount of our senior secured notes; (2) to repay indebtedness under our existing senior secured credit facility; (3) to pay a one-time $3 million fee to terminate our management consulting agreement with First Atlantic Capital, Ltd. ("First Atlantic Capital"), and (4) for general corporate purposes. We cannot assure you that this offering will be completed or completed in a timely manner upon terms favorable to us. A reduction in discretionary consumer spending could reduce sales of golf products. Golf products are recreational in nature and are therefore discretionary purchases for consumers. Consumers are generally more willing to make discretionary golf product purchases during favorable economic conditions. Discretionary spending is affected by many factors, including general business conditions, interest rates, the availability of consumer credit, taxation and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Purchases of our products could decline during periods when disposable income is lower, or during periods of actual or perceived unfavorable economic conditions. Any significant decline in general economic conditions or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that adversely affect discretionary consumer spending, whether in the United States generally or in a particular geographic area in which our stores are located, could lead to reduced sales of our products. 9 Table of Contents Our sales and profits may be adversely affected if we or our suppliers fail to develop and introduce new and innovative products that appeal to our customers. Our future success depends, in part, upon our and our suppliers’ continued ability to develop and introduce new and innovative products. This is particularly true with respect to golf clubs, which accounted for approximately 45% of our net sales in fiscal 2005. We believe our guests’ desire to test the performance of the latest golf equipment drives traffic into our stores and increases sales. This is particularly true when significant technological advancements in golf clubs and other equipment occur, although such advances generally only occur every few years. Furthermore, the success of new products depends not only upon their performance, but also upon the subjective preferences of golfers, including how a club looks, sounds and feels, and the level of popularity that a golf club enjoys among professional and recreational golfers. Our success depends, in large part, on our and our suppliers’ ability to identify and anticipate the changing preferences of our customers and our ability to stock our stores with a wide selection of quality merchandise that appeals to customer preferences. If we or our suppliers fail to successfully develop and introduce on a timely basis new and innovative products that appeal to our customers, our revenues and profitability may suffer. On the other hand, if our suppliers introduce new golf clubs too rapidly, it could result in closeouts of existing inventories. Closeouts can result in reduced margins on the sale of older products, as well as reduced sales of new products given the availability of older products at lower prices. These reduced margins and sales may adversely affect our results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to compete with our existing major competitors and with new competitors that may enter the golf retail market. Our principal competitors are currently other off-course specialty retailers, franchise and independent golf retailers, on-course pro shops, conventional sporting goods retailers, mass merchants and warehouse clubs, and online retailers of golf equipment. These businesses compete with us in one or more product categories. In addition, traditional sports retailers and specialty golf retailers are expanding more aggressively in marketing and supplying brand-name golf equipment, thereby competing directly with us for products, customers and locations. Some of these potential competitors have greater financial or marketing resources than we do and may be able to devote greater resources to sourcing, promoting and selling their products. We may also face increased competition due to the entry of new competitors, including current suppliers that decide to sell their products directly. As a result of this competition, we may experience lower sales and margins or greater operating costs, such as marketing costs, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Our growth depends primarily upon our ability to open new stores and operate them profitably, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our growth strategy involves opening additional stores in new and existing markets. We are in the early stages of our store expansion. At the end of 2005, we had 52 stores, more than half of which we opened or acquired during the last three years. We plan to open between 10 and 12 new stores in 2006 and between 14 and 16 new stores in 2007. In addition to capital requirements, our ability to open new stores on a timely and profitable basis is subject to various contingencies, including but not limited to, our ability to successfully: • identify suitable store locations that meet our target demographics; • negotiate and enter into long-term leases upon acceptable terms; • build-out or refurbish sites on a timely and cost-effective basis; • hire, train and retain skilled managers and personnel; and • integrate new stores into existing operations. After identifying a new store site, we typically try to negotiate a long-term lease, generally between 10 and 20 years. Long-term leases typically result in long-term financial obligations that we are obligated to pay regardless of whether the store generates sufficient traffic and sales. There can be no assurance that new stores will generate sales levels necessary to achieve store-level profitability or profitability comparable to that of existing stores. New stores may also have lower sales volumes or profits compared to previously opened stores or they may have losses. In the past, we have experienced delays and cost-overruns in obtaining proper permitting, building and refurbishing stores. We cannot assure you that we will not experience these problems again in the future. Furthermore, our expansion into new and existing markets may present competitive, distribution, and merchandising challenges that differ from our current challenges, including competition among our stores clustered in a single market, diminished novelty of our activity-based store design and concept, added strain on our distribution and fulfillment center and management information systems, and diversion of management attention from existing operations. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in meeting the challenges described above or that any of our new stores will be a profitable deployment of our capital 10 Table of Contents resources. If we fail to open additional stores successfully or if any of our new stores are not profitable, we may not be able to grow our revenues and our results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected. If our key suppliers limit the amount or variety of products they sell to us or if they fail to deliver products to us in a timely manner and upon customary pricing terms, our business could be adversely affected. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for a significant portion of our product sales. During fiscal 2004 and 2005, three of our suppliers each accounted for approximately 10% of our purchases. We depend on access to the latest golf equipment, apparel and accessories from the premier national brands in order to drive traffic into our stores and through our direct-to-consumer channel. We do not have any long-term supply contracts with our suppliers providing for continued supply, pricing, allowances or other terms. In addition, certain of our vendors have established minimum advertised pricing requirements, which, if violated, could result in our inability to obtain certain products. If our suppliers refuse to distribute their products to us, limit the amount or variety of products they make available to us, or fail to deliver such products on a timely basis and upon customary pricing terms, our business could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, some of our proprietary products require specially developed manufacturing molds, techniques or processes which make it difficult to identify and utilize alternative suppliers quickly. Any significant production delay or the inability of our current suppliers to deliver products on a timely basis, including clubheads and shafts in sufficient quantities, or the transition to alternate suppliers, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our sales could decline if we are unable to process increased traffic or prevent security breaches on our Internet site and our network infrastructure. A key element of our strategy is to generate high-volume traffic on, and increase sales through, our Internet site. Accordingly, the satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our Internet site, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain guests. Our Internet revenues will depend on the number of visitors who shop on our Internet site and the volume of orders we can fill on a timely basis. Problems with our Internet site or order fulfillment performance would reduce the volume of goods sold and could damage our reputation. We may experience system interruptions from time to time. If there is a substantial increase in the volume of traffic on our Internet site or the number of orders placed by customers, we may be required to expand and further upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure. We cannot assure you that we will be able to accurately project the rate or timing of increases, if any, in the use of our Internet site, or that we will be able to successfully and seamlessly expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate such increases on a timely and cost-effective basis. The success of our Internet site depends on the secure transmission of confidential information over network and the Internet and on the secure storage of data. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission and storage of confidential information, such as customer credit card information. In addition, we maintain an extensive confidential database of customer profiles and transaction information. We cannot assure you that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, or other events or developments will not result in a compromise or breach of the security we use to protect customer transaction and personal data contained in our customer database. In addition, other companies in the retail sector have from time to time experienced breaches as a result of actions by their employees. If any compromise of our security were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition, and could result in a loss of customers. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could damage our reputation, cause interruptions in our operations and/or misappropriate proprietary information which, in turn, could cause us to incur liability for any resulting losses. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. We lease almost all of our store locations. If we are unable to maintain those leases or locate alternative sites for our stores on terms that are acceptable us, our net revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. We lease 51 of our 52 current stores. In fiscal 2005, we closed two stores when the leases for those locations expired. In both instances, we opened a new store in similar locations during fiscal 2005. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our existing store locations as leases expire, extend the leases or be able to locate alternative sites on favorable terms. If we cannot maintain our existing store locations, extend the leases or locate alternative sites on favorable or acceptable terms, our net revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents Our operating results are subject to seasonal fluctuations which could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate. Our business is seasonal. The golf season and the number of rounds played in the markets we serve fluctuate based on a number of factors, including the weather. Accordingly, our sales leading up to and during the warm weather golf season, as well as the Christmas holiday gift-giving season, have historically contributed to a higher percentage of our annual net revenues and annual net operating income than other periods in our fiscal year. During fiscal 2005, the fiscal months of March through September and December, which together comprise 36 weeks of our 52-week fiscal year, contributed over three-quarters of our annual net revenues and substantially all of our annual operating income. We make decisions regarding merchandise well in advance of the season in which it will be sold. We incur significant additional expenses leading up to and during these periods in anticipation of higher sales, including acquiring additional inventory, preparing and mailing our catalogs, advertising, creating in-store promotions and hiring additional employees. In the event of unseasonable weather during the peak season in certain markets, our sales may be lower and we may not be able to adjust our inventory or expenses in a timely fashion. This seasonality may result in volatility or have an adverse effect on our results of operations and the market price of our common stock. Our stores are clustered in particular areas and adverse events in those areas may have a disproportionate effect on our business. A significant portion of our stores are clustered in certain geographic areas, including seven in each of the Tri-State (New York, New Jersey and Connecticut) and the San Francisco Bay area, six in Los Angeles, four in each of Chicago and Dallas, and three in each of Atlanta, Denver, Detroit, Houston and Phoenix. If any of these areas were to experience a downturn in economic conditions, natural disasters such as hurricanes, floods or earthquakes, terrorist attacks, or other negative events, the stores in these areas may be adversely affected, which would adversely affect our operating results. Our comparable store sales may fluctuate, which could negatively impact our future operating performance. Our comparable store sales are affected by a variety of factors, including, among others: • customer demand in different geographic regions; • unseasonable weather during certain periods for certain geographic regions; • our ability to efficiently source and distribute products; • changes in our product mix; • our decision to relocate or refurbish certain stores; • promotional events; • effects of competition; • our ability to effectively execute our business strategy; and • general economic conditions. Our comparable store sales have fluctuated significantly in the past and such fluctuation may continue in the future. For example, the changes in comparable store sales compared to the prior fiscal year was 7.4% in 2003, 0.7% in 2004 and 2.5% in 2005. We have also experienced decreases in comparable store sales during certain quarterly periods during the last two fiscal years and we cannot assure you that our comparable store sales will not decrease again in the future. If we fail to accurately target the appropriate segment of the consumer catalog market or if we fail to achieve adequate response rates to our catalogs, our results of operations may suffer. Our results of operations depend in part on the success of our direct-to-consumer channel, which consists of our Internet site and multiple catalogs. Within our direct-to-consumer distribution channel, we believe that the success of our catalog operations also contributes to the success of our Internet site, because many of our customers who receive catalogs choose to purchase products through our Internet site. We believe that the success of our catalogs depend on our ability to: • achieve adequate response rates to our mailings; • offer an attractive merchandise mix; • cost-effectively add new customers; • cost-effectively design and produce appealing catalogs; and • timely deliver products ordered through our catalogs to our guests. 12 Table of Contents We have historically experienced fluctuations in the response rates to our catalog mailings. If we fail to achieve adequate response rates, we could experience lower sales, significant markdowns or write-offs of inventory and lower margins, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. If we lose the services of our Chief Executive Officer, we may not be able to manage our operations and implement our growth strategy effectively. We depend on the continued service of James D. Thompson, our President and Chief Executive Officer, who possesses significant expertise and knowledge of our business and industry. Currently, we do not maintain key person insurance for any of our officers or managers. We have entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Thompson that expires, subject to automatic one-year extensions, in October 2006. Any loss or interruption of the services of Mr. Thompson could significantly reduce our ability to effectively manage our operations and implement our growth strategy, and we cannot assure you that we would be able to find an appropriate replacement should the need arise. We are controlled by one stockholder, which may give rise to a conflict of interest. Atlantic Equity Partners III, L.P., owns approximately 74.3% of our common stock on a fully diluted basis, including outstanding stock options, All of our stockholders are parties to a stockholders agreement that contains voting arrangements that give Atlantic Equity Partners III voting control over the election of all but one of our directors. As a result, Atlantic Equity Partners III controls us and effectively has the power to approve any action requiring the approval of the holders of our stock, including adopting certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and approving mergers or sales of all of our assets. In addition, as a result of Atlantic Equity Partners III’s ownership interest, conflicts of interest could arise with respect to transactions involving business dealings between us and Atlantic Equity Partners III or First Atlantic Capital, Ltd., which operates Atlantic Equity Partners III, potential acquisitions of business or properties, the issuance of additional securities, the payment of dividends by us and other matters. We rely on our management information systems for inventory management, distribution and other functions. If our information systems fail to perform these functions adequately or if we experience an interruption in their operation, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our management information systems. We rely on our management information systems to effectively manage order entry, order fulfillment, point-of-sale, and inventory replenishment processes. Our management information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • earthquake, fire, flood and other natural disasters; • power loss, computer systems failure, Internet and telecommunications or data network failure; and • hackers, computer viruses, software bugs or glitches. Any damage or interruption to our management information systems or the failure of our management information systems to perform as expected could disrupt our business, result in decreased sales, increased overhead costs, excess inventory and product shortages and adversely affect our results of operations. Our profitability would be adversely affected if the operation of our Austin, Texas call center or distribution and fulfillment center were interrupted or shut down. We operate a centralized call center and distribution and fulfillment center in Austin, Texas. We handle almost all of our Internet site and catalog orders through our Austin facility. We also receive and ship a significant portion of our retail stores’ inventory through our Austin facility. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption to this facility would substantially disrupt our operations and could damage all or a portion of our inventory at this facility, impairing our ability to adequately stock our stores and fulfill guest orders. In addition, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with fulfilling our direct-to-consumer orders and distributing our products to our stores during the time it takes for us to reopen or replace our Austin facility. As a result, a disruption at our Austin facility would adversely affect our profitability. 13 Table of Contents A disruption in the service or a significant increase in the cost of our primary delivery service for our direct-to-consumer operations would have a material adverse effect on our business. We use United Parcel Service, or UPS, for substantially all of our ground shipments of products sold through our Internet site and catalogs to our guests in the United States. Any significant disruption to UPS’s services would impede our ability to deliver our products through our direct-to-consumer channel, which could cause us to lose sales or guests. In addition, if UPS were to significantly increase its shipping charges, we may not be able to pass these additional shipping costs on to our guests and still maintain the same level of direct-to-consumer sales. In the event of disruption to UPS’s services or a significant increase in its shipping charges, we may not be able to engage alternative carriers to deliver our products in a timely manner on favorable terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. An increase in the costs of mailing, paper, and printing our catalogs would adversely affect our profitability. Postal rate increases and paper and printing costs affect the cost of our catalog mailings. We rely on discounts from the basic postal rate structure, such as discounts for bulk mailings and sorting by zip code and carrier routes for our catalogs. We are not a party to any long-term contracts for the supply of paper. Our cost of paper has fluctuated significantly during the past three fiscal years, and our future paper costs are subject to supply and demand forces external to our business. A material increase in postal rates or printing or paper costs for our catalogs could materially decrease our profitability. If we are unable to enforce our intellectual property rights our net revenues and profits may decline. Our success and ability to compete are dependent, in part, on sales of our proprietary branded merchandise. We currently hold a substantial number of registrations for trademarks and service marks to protect our own proprietary brands. We also rely to a lesser extent on trade secret, patent and copyright protection, employee confidentiality agreements and license agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. We believe that the exclusive right to use trademarks and service marks has helped establish our market share. If we are unable to continue to protect the trademarks and service marks for our proprietary brands, if such marks become generic or if third parties adopt marks similar to our marks, our ability to differentiate our products and services may be diminished. In the event that our trademarks or service marks are successfully challenged by third parties, we could lose brand recognition and be forced to devote additional resources to advertising and marketing new brands for our products. From time to time, we may be compelled to protect our intellectual property, which may involve litigation. Such litigation may be time-consuming, expensive and distract our management from running the day-to-day operations of our business, and could result in the impairment or loss of the involved intellectual property. There is no guarantee that the steps we take to protect our intellectual property, including litigation when necessary, will be successful. The loss or reduction of any of our significant intellectual property rights could diminish our ability to distinguish our products from competitors’ products and retain our market share for our proprietary products. Our proprietary products sold under our proprietary brands generate higher margins than products sold under third party manufacturer brands. If we are unable to effectively protect our proprietary intellectual property rights and fewer of our sales come from our proprietary products, our net revenues and profits may decline. We may become subject to intellectual property suits that could cause us to incur substantial costs or pay substantial damages or prohibit us from selling our products. Third parties may from time to time assert claims against us alleging infringement, misappropriation or other violations of patent, trademark or other proprietary rights, whether or not such claims have merit. Such claims can be time consuming and expensive to defend and may divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Claims for alleged infringement and any resulting lawsuit, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for damages, increase the costs of selling some of our products and damage our reputation. Any potential intellectual property litigation could also force us to stop selling certain products, obtain a license from the owner to use the relevant intellectual property, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all, or redesign our products to avoid using the relevant intellectual property. We may be subject to product warranty claims or product recalls which could harm our business, results of operations, and reputation. We may be subject to risks associated with our proprietary branded products, including product liability. Our existing or future proprietary products may contain design or materials defects, which could subject us to product liability claims and product recalls. Although we maintain limited product liability insurance, if any successful product liability claim or product recall is not covered by or exceeds our insurance coverage, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. In addition, product recalls could adversely affect our reputation in the marketplace. In May 2002, we learned that some of our proprietary products sold in the prior two years were not manufactured in accordance with their design specifications. Upon discovery of this discrepancy, we offered our customers refunds, replacements or gift certificates. As a result, in fiscal 2002 we 14 Table of Contents recognized $300,000 in product return and replacement expenses. We cannot assure you that problems like this will not happen again in the future, or if they do, that they will not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, it is possible that we could face similar risks with respect to the premier branded products we sell. Disruption of operations of ports through which our products are imported from Asia could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We import substantially all of our proprietary products from Asia under short-term purchase orders, and a significant amount of the premier branded products we sell is also manufactured in Asia. If a disruption occurs in the operations of ports through which our products are imported, we and our vendors may have to ship some or all of our products from Asia by air freight. Shipping by air is significantly more expensive than shipping by boat, and if we cannot pass these increased shipping costs on to our guests, our profitability will be reduced. A disruption at ports through which our products are imported would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Current and future tax regulations may adversely affect our direct-to-consumer business and negatively impact our results of operations. Our direct-to-consumer channel may be adversely affected by state sales and use taxes as well as the regulation of Internet commerce. We currently must collect taxes for approximately half of our catalog and Internet sales. An unfavorable change in state sales and use taxes could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, future regulation of the Internet, including the widespread imposition of taxes on Internet commerce, could affect the growth of sales through our Internet site and negatively affect our ability to increase our net revenues. We may pursue strategic acquisitions, which could have an adverse impact on our business. From time to time, we may grow our business by acquiring complementary businesses, products or technologies. In May 2003, we acquired the assets and technology of Zevo Golf Co., Inc., and in July 2003 we acquired six Don Sherwood Golf & Tennis stores. Other acquisitions that we may make in the future entail a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Negotiating potential acquisitions or integrating newly acquired businesses, products or technologies into our business could divert our management’s attention from other business concerns and could be expensive and time consuming. Acquisitions could expose our business to unforeseen liabilities or risks associated with entering new markets or businesses. In addition, we might lose key employees while integrating new organizations. Consequently, we might not be successful in integrating any acquired businesses, products or technologies, and might not achieve anticipated sales and cost benefits. In addition, future acquisitions could result in customer dissatisfaction, performance problems with an acquired company, or issuances of equity securities that cause dilution to our existing stockholders. Furthermore, we may incur contingent liabilities or possible impairment charges related to goodwill or other intangible assets or other unanticipated events or circumstances, any of which could harm our financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 15 Table of Contents 