Item 1A. Risk Factors Stockholders should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with the other information included and incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. This discussion highlights some of the risks which may affect future operating results. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results would likely suffer. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry Our cash and other sources of liquidity may not be adequate to fund our operations beyond April 15, 2012. We require substantial additional capital to continue our operations, which may not be available on commercially acceptable terms. We cannot be certain that funds will be available and, if they are not available, we may not be able to continue as a going concern which may result in actions that could adversely impact our stockholders. We have projected that cash on hand will be sufficient to allow us to continue operations until April 15, 2012. As a result of insufficient cash flow, on March 9, 2012, we announced that we reduced our workforce by over 90%. As of March 23, 2012, our cash on hand was only approximately $440,000. We will require substantial capital resources in order to conduct our operations and develop our therapeutic products, and do not expect that our current cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to fund our current and planned operations. If we need additional funding for operations and are unable to raise it through debt or equity financings, we may be forced to liquidate assets and/or curtail or cease operations. Additional financing through grants, strategic collaborations, public or private equity financings or other financing sources may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. The interest of the public and private equity markets to any proposed financing is substantially affected by the general economic, market and political climate and by other factors which are unpredictable and over which we have no control. Additional equity financings, if we obtain them, could result in significant dilution to current shareholders. The amount of dilution could be increased by the issuance of warrants or securities with other dilutive characteristics, such as anti-dilution clauses or price resets. Further, in the event that additional funds are obtained through arrangements with collaborative partners, these arrangements may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, product candidates, or products that we would otherwise seek to develop and commercialize ourselves. To conserve funds, we may pursue less expensive but higher-risk development paths or suspend some or all development activity. Historically, we have limited our product development activities to the minimum we felt was sufficient to support our development and commercialization goals, in particular, with respect to Menerba. While we successfully completed Phase 2 clinical trials of Menerba without extensive product development experience, we may lack the information and resources necessary to complete product development of Menerba or any of our other products and may be unable to manufacture any of them successfully on a commercially-viable scale. If we are unable to complete our product development, we may be unable to effectively commercialize our products, if approved. If we do not obtain additional financing in the near future, we do not expect that any of our clinical trials will continue. If we cease to continue as a going concern due to lack of available capital or otherwise, you may lose your entire investment in our company. We have a history of net losses, which we expect to continue for the foreseeable future and, as a result, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when, if ever, we will become profitable or if we will be able to continue as a going concern. We are a development stage company which commenced operations in 2002, and we are subject to all of the risks associated with having a limited operating history and pursuing the development of new products. Our cash flows may be insufficient to meet expenses relating to our operations and the development of our business, and may be insufficient to allow us to develop our products. We currently conduct research and 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS development to develop women’s health and anticancer drugs. We do not know whether we will be successful in the development of such products. From inception through December 31, 2011, we have a deficit accumulated during the development stage of approximately $87.2 million. Our net loss for fiscal years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $13.7 million, $17.7 million and $16.4 million, respectively. Our net loss for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 was $16.7 million and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 was $12.9 million. To date, we have mainly recognized revenues from a technology license, research services, and government grants. On October 15, 2007, we terminated the technology license agreement. We do not anticipate generating significant revenues from sales of our products, if approved, for at least several years, if at all. All of our product candidates are in development and none have been approved for commercial sale. We expect to increase our operating expenses over the next several years as we expand clinical trials for our product candidates currently in clinical development, including Menerba and Bezielle, advance our other women’s health and anticancer product candidates into clinical trials, expand our research and development activities, seek regulatory approvals and engage in commercialization activities in anticipation of potential FDA approval of our product candidates. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing our product candidates and their potential for commercialization, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we are unable to achieve and sustain profitability, the market value of our common stock will likely decline and we may not be able to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to raise sufficient additional capital, we may seek to merge with or be acquired by another company and that transaction may adversely affect our business and the value of our securities. If we are unable to raise sufficient additional capital, we may seek to merge with another company with a stronger cash position, complementary work force, or product candidate portfolio or for other reasons. We believe the market price for our common stock may not accurately reflect the value of our business. While we will continue to seek to maximize the value of our business to our stockholders, the most attractive option for doing so may require us to consummate a transaction involving an exchange of our common stock with that of another company. There are numerous risks associated with merging or being acquired. These risks include, among others, incorrectly assessing the quality of a prospective acquirer or merger-partner, encountering greater than anticipated costs in integrating businesses, facing resistance from employees and being unable to profitably deploy the assets of the new entity. The operations, financial condition, and prospects of the post-transaction entity depend in part on our and our acquirer/merger-partner’s ability to successfully integrate the operations related to our product candidates, business and technologies. We may be unable to integrate operations successfully or to achieve expected cost savings and any cost savings which are realized may be offset by losses in revenues or other charges to operations. As a result, our stockholders may not realize the full value of their investment. We have a limited number of authorized shares of common stock available for issuance, and if our stockholders do not approve an increase in the number of shares of our common stock available for issuance, we may be unable to raise significant additional common equity capital. As of March 23, 2012, we had 340,000,000 authorized shares of common stock, of which 129.3 million shares of common stock were issued and outstanding on a fully diluted basis. Thus, we have a limited number of shares of common stock available for future issuance. The limited availability of shares of common stock may hinder our ability to raise capital through the issuance of common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for common stock, if the need should so arise. If we need to increase the number of our shares of common stock available for issuance, then under applicable Delaware law and the provisions of our certificate of incorporation, such an increase will require the approval of the holders of a majority of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock. No assurance can be provided that we would be able to obtain the requisite vote to increase the number of our shares of common stock available for issuance. A failure to increase our authorized share capital when needed would adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital and therefore could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and prospects. 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may enter into equity financing transactions in the near future, which may result in significant dilution to existing stockholders. Our Board of Directors believes that we need to raise substantial additional capital in order to continue our operations beyond April 15, 2012 and is contemplating an equity financing transaction, the terms of which have not yet been established. On February 8, 2012, we filed a registration statement on Form S-1 with the SEC (File No. 33-179429), as amended, to register the offering of an aggregate of up to $25 million in convertible preferred stock and warrants to purchase shares of common stock. We expect that the terms and conditions of this offering, if consummated, will change. However, we anticipate that the terms of any new financing transactions, if available, will include the issuance of a substantial amount of our common stock, or securities convertible or exercisable into a substantial amount of our common stock. Sales of our common stock offered through future equity offerings may result in substantial dilution to the interests of other holders of our common stock and a decline in the market price of our common stock. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock to investors, or anticipation of such sales, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we might otherwise wish to effect sales. If we lose the services of our co-founders who serve as directors and officers of our company, our operations could be disrupted and our business could be harmed. Our business plan relies significantly on the continued services of our co-founders, Isaac Cohen and Mary Tagliaferri. If we were to lose the services of one or both of them, our ability to continue to execute our business plan could be materially impaired. We have a limited operating history and are considered a development stage company. We are considered a development stage company for accounting purposes because we have not generated any material revenues to date. Accordingly, we have limited relevant operating history upon which an evaluation of our performance and prospects can be made. We are subject to all of the business risks associated with a new enterprise, including risks of unforeseen capital requirements, failure of market acceptance, failure to establish business relationships and competitive disadvantages as against larger and more established companies. Our potential products face significant regulatory hurdles prior to marketing which could delay or prevent sales. These regulatory hurdles include both clinical development requirements and chemistry manufacturing and control (CMC) requirements. Before we obtain the approvals necessary to sell any of our potential products, we must show through preclinical studies and human testing that each potential product is safe and effective. We have a number of products moving toward or currently in clinical trials. Failure to show any potential product’s safety and effectiveness would delay or prevent regulatory approval of the product and could adversely affect our business. The clinical trial process is complex and uncertain. The results of preclinical studies and initial clinical trials may not necessarily predict the results from later large-scale clinical trials. In addition, clinical trials may not demonstrate a potential product’s safety and effectiveness to the satisfaction of the regulatory authorities. A number of companies have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials or in seeking regulatory approvals, despite promising results in earlier trials. The rate at which we complete our clinical trials depends on many factors, including our ability to obtain adequate supplies of the potential products to be tested and patient enrollment. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the eligibility criteria for the trial. Delays in patient enrollment may result in increased costs and longer development times. In addition, future collaborative partners may have rights to control product development and clinical programs for products developed under the collaborations. As a result, these collaborators may conduct these programs more slowly or in a different manner than we had expected. Even if clinical trials are completed, we or our collaborative partners still may not apply for FDA approval in a timely manner or the FDA still may not grant approval. 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS In addition, the process development and manufacturing of potential products is subject to extensive government regulation, including by the FDA, DEA and state and other territorial authorities. The FDA administers processes to ensure that marketed products are safe, effective, and consistently uniform, of high quality and marketed only for approved indications. These quality assurance processes are complex and difficult for a new company to implement. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in sanctions up to the suspension of regulatory approval as well as civil and criminal sanctions. A number of companies have suffered significant setbacks in clinical development and in seeking regulatory approvals, despite their best efforts in the development of quality systems. Our product development and commercialization involves a number of uncertainties, and we may never generate sufficient revenues from the sale of potential products to become profitable. We have generated no significant revenues to date. To generate revenue and to achieve profitability, we must successfully develop, clinically test, market and sell our potential products. Even if we generate revenue and successfully achieve profitability, we cannot predict the level of that profitability or whether it will be sustainable. We expect that our operating results will fluctuate from period to period as a result of differences in when we incur expenses and receive revenues from sales of our potential products, collaborative arrangements and other sources. Some of these fluctuations may be significant. All of our products in development will require extensive additional development, including preclinical testing and human studies, as well as regulatory approvals, before we can market them. We cannot predict if or when any of the products we are developing or those being co-developed with us will be approved for marketing. There are many reasons that we or our collaborative partners may fail in our efforts to develop our potential products, including the possibility that: • preclinical testing or human studies may show that our potential products are ineffective or cause harmful side effects; • the products may fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals from the FDA or foreign authorities in a timely manner, or at all; • the products, if approved, may not be produced in commercial quantities or at reasonable costs; • the potential products, once approved, may not achieve commercial acceptance; • regulatory or governmental authorities may apply restrictions to our potential products, which could adversely affect their commercial success; or • the proprietary rights of other parties may prevent us or our partners from marketing our potential products. Our drug development programs will require substantial additional future funding which could hurt our operational and financial condition. Our drug development programs require substantial additional capital to successfully complete them, arising from costs to: • conduct research, preclinical testing and human studies; • establish pilot scale and commercial scale manufacturing processes and facilities; and • establish and develop quality control, regulatory and administrative capabilities to support these programs. Our future operating and capital needs will depend on many factors, including the following: • the pace of scientific progress in our research and development programs and the magnitude of these programs; • the scope and results of preclinical testing and human studies; • the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS • the time and costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims; • competing technological and market developments; • our ability to establish additional collaborations; • changes in our existing collaborations; • the cost of manufacturing scale-up; and • the effectiveness of our commercialization activities. We base our outlook regarding the need for funds on many uncertain variables. Such uncertainties include regulatory approvals, the timing of events outside our direct control such as negotiations with potential strategic partners and other factors. Any of these uncertain events can significantly change our cash requirements as they determine such one-time events as the receipt of major milestones and other payments. If additional funds are required to support our operations and we are unable to obtain them on favorable terms, we may be required to cease or reduce further development or commercialization of our potential products, to sell some or all of our technology or assets or to merge with another entity. We must comply with significant government regulations. The research and development, manufacture and marketing of human therapeutic and diagnostic products are subject to regulation, primarily by the FDA in the U.S. and by comparable authorities in other countries. These national agencies and other federal, state, local and foreign entities regulate, among other things, research and development activities (including testing in animals and in humans) and the testing, manufacturing, handling, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion of the products that we are developing. Noncompliance with applicable requirements can result in various adverse consequences, including delay in approving or refusal to approve product licenses or other applications, suspension or termination of clinical investigations, revocation of approvals previously granted, fines, criminal prosecution, recall or seizure of products, injunctions against shipping products and total or partial suspension of production and/or refusal to allow a company to enter into governmental supply contracts. The process of obtaining requisite FDA approval has historically been costly and time-consuming. Current FDA requirements for a new human biological product to be marketed in the U.S. include: (1) the successful conclusion of preclinical laboratory and animal tests, if appropriate, to gain preliminary information on the product’s safety; (2) filing with the FDA of an Investigational New Drug Application to conduct human clinical trials for drugs or biologics; (3) the successful completion of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the IND for its recommended use; and (4) filing by a company and acceptance and approval by the FDA of a BLA for a biological IND, to allow commercial distribution of a biologic product. A delay in one or more of the procedural steps outlined above could be harmful to us in terms of getting our products through clinical testing and to market. Failure to obtain regulatory approvals in foreign jurisdictions would prevent us from marketing our products internationally. We intend to have our product candidates marketed outside the United States. In order to market products in the European Union, Asia and many other non-U.S. jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. We may be unable to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional and costly clinical testing and data review. The time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory agencies in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory agencies in other foreign countries or by the FDA. The failure to obtain these approvals could harm our business and result in decreased revenues. 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS We expect to rely heavily on collaborative relationships and termination of any of these programs could reduce the financial resources available to us, including research funding and milestone payments. Our strategy for developing and commercializing many of our potential products, including products aimed at large markets, includes entering into collaborations with corporate partners, licensors, licensees and others. These collaborations may provide us with funding and research and development resources for potential products. These agreements also may give our collaborative partners significant discretion when deciding whether or not to pursue any development program. Our collaborations may not be successful. In addition, our collaborators may develop drugs, either alone or with others, which compete with the types of drugs they currently are developing with us. This could result in less support and increased competition for our programs. If any of our collaborative partners breach or terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to conduct their collaborative activities successfully, our product development under these agreements may be delayed or terminated. We may have disputes in the future with our collaborators, including disputes concerning who owns the rights to any technology developed. These and other possible disagreements between us and our collaborators could delay our ability and the ability of our collaborators to achieve milestones or our receipt of other payments. In addition, any disagreements could delay, interrupt or terminate the collaborative research, development and commercialization of certain potential products, or could result in litigation or arbitration. The occurrence of any of these problems could be time-consuming and expensive and could adversely affect our business. There is a substantial risk of product liability claims in our business. If we are unable to obtain sufficient insurance, a product liability claim against us could adversely affect our business. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our product candidates in human clinical trials and will face even greater risks upon any commercialization by us of our product candidates. We have product liability insurance covering our clinical trials at a level appropriate for the industry, which we currently believe is adequate to cover any product liability exposure we may have. Clinical trial and product liability insurance is volatile and may become increasingly expensive. As a result, we may be unable to obtain sufficient insurance or increase our existing coverage at a reasonable cost to protect us against losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business. An individual may bring a product liability claim against us if one of our products or product candidates causes, or is claimed to have caused, an injury or is found to be unsuitable for consumer use. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in: • liabilities that substantially exceed our product liability insurance, which we would then be required to pay from other sources, if available; • an increase of our product liability insurance rates or the inability to maintain insurance coverage in the future on acceptable terms, or at all; • withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers or patients; • damage to our reputation and the reputation of our products, resulting in lower sales; • regulatory investigations that could require costly recalls or product modifications; • litigation costs; and/or • the diversion of management’s attention from managing our business. Claims relating to any improper handling, storage or disposal of biological and hazardous materials by us could be time-consuming and costly. Our research and development activities at our facilities in Hayward, California and Emeryville, California involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials. We are subject to government regulations relating to the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS and waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these hazardous materials comply with the standards prescribed by applicable laws and regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result or we could be penalized with fines, and any liability could exceed the limits of or fall outside our insurance coverage. We may not be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms, or at all. Further, we could be required to incur significant costs to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations. If we cannot maintain manufacturing arrangements with third parties on acceptable terms, or if these third parties do not perform as agreed, the development or marketing of our product candidates could be delayed or otherwise materially and adversely affected. In 2011 we completed the construction and commissioning of a pilot manufacturing plant for clinical trial supply for Menerba. This facility will not be sufficient for the commercial manufacture of the drug. We may be relying upon third-party manufacturers to provide significant portions of our supply chain for our drug-product. We depend on these third-party manufacturers to perform their obligations in a timely manner and in accordance with applicable governmental regulations. Our third-party manufacturers may encounter difficulties with meeting our requirements, including problems involving: • inconsistent production yields; • poor quality control and assurance or inadequate process controls; and/or • lack of compliance with regulations set forth by the FDA or other foreign regulatory agencies. These contract manufacturers may not be able to manufacture for us at a cost or in quantities necessary to make them commercially viable. We also have no control over whether third-party manufacturers breach their agreements with us or whether they may terminate or decline to renew agreements with us. To date, our third party manufacturers have met our manufacturing requirements, but we cannot assure you that they will continue to do so. Furthermore, changes in the manufacturing process or procedure, including a change in the location where the drug is manufactured or a change of a third-party manufacturer, may require prior FDA review and approval in accordance with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMPs, as well as other applicable regulations. There are comparable foreign requirements. This potential review may be costly and time-consuming and could delay or prevent the launch of a product. The FDA or similar foreign regulatory agencies at any time may also implement new standards, or change their interpretation and enforcement of existing standards for manufacture, packaging or testing of products. If we or our contract manufacturers are unable to comply, we or they may be subject to regulatory action, civil actions or penalties. If we are unable to enter into agreements with additional manufacturers on commercially reasonable terms, or if there is a poor manufacturing performance on the part of our third party manufacturers, we may not be able to complete development of, or market, our product candidates. If we cannot rely on third-party manufacturers, we will be required to incur significant costs and devote significant efforts to establish our own manufacturing facilities and capabilities. We do not have any commercial manufacturing experience, nor do we currently have any commercial manufacturing facilities and we must incur significant costs to develop this expertise. We may encounter difficulties in developing our manufacturing capacity and in manufacturing our products in commercial quantities, including, but not limited to: (i) maintaining product yields; (ii) maintaining quality control and assurance; (iii) providing component and service availability; (iv) maintaining adequate control policies and procedures; and (v) hiring and retaining qualified personnel. Difficulties encountered in developing our manufacturing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to successfully develop commercial manufacturing capacity by ourselves in a timely fashion or on an economically favorable basis. 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential investors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to annually furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Such report must contain, among other matters, an assessment by our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of the end of our fiscal year. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. Performing the system and process documentation and evaluation needed to comply with Section 404 is both costly and challenging. In the future if any material weaknesses are identified in our internal control over financial reporting, our management will not be able to assert that our internal control over financial reporting or our disclosure controls and procedures are effective, and we could be required to further implement expensive and time-consuming remedial measures. We cannot be certain that any measures we take will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting and that we will remediate any material weaknesses. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Failure to comply with Section 404 could also potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or other regulatory authorities. The current global economic environment poses severe challenges to our business strategy, which relies on access to capital from the markets and our collaborators, and creates other financial risks for us. The global economy, including credit markets and the financial services industry, has been experiencing a period of substantial turmoil and uncertainty. These conditions have generally made equity and debt financing more difficult to obtain, and may negatively impact our ability to complete financing transactions. The duration and severity of these conditions is uncertain, as is the extent to which they may adversely affect our business and the business of current and prospective collaborators and vendors. If the global economy does not improve or worsens, we may be unable to secure additional funding to sustain our operations or to find suitable partners to advance our internal programs, even if we receive positive results from our research and development or business development efforts. From time to time we maintain a portfolio of investments in marketable debt securities which are recorded at fair value. Although we have established investment guidelines relative to diversification and maturity with the objectives of maintaining safety of principal and liquidity, credit rating agencies may reduce the credit quality of our individual holdings which could adversely affect their value. Lower credit quality and other market events, such as changes in interest rates and further deterioration in the credit markets, may have an adverse effect on the fair value of our investment holdings and cash position. Our operations might be interrupted by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event. Our corporate headquarters are located at a single business park in Emeryville, California. Important documents and records, including copies of our regulatory documents and other records for our product candidates, are located at our facilities and we depend on our facilities for the continued operation of our business. Natural disasters and other catastrophic events, such as wildfires and other fires, earthquakes and extended power interruptions, which have not severely impacted Emeryville businesses in the past, and terrorist attacks, drought or flood, could significantly disrupt our operations and result in additional, unplanned expense. As a small company, we have a limited capability to establish and maintain a comprehensive disaster recovery program. Any significant natural disaster or catastrophic event could delay our development and commercialization efforts. Even though we believe we carry commercially reasonable insurance, we might suffer losses that exceed the coverage available under these insurance policies. In addition, we are not insured against terrorist attacks or earthquakes. 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may be negatively impacted by the effects of climate change. With respect to the impacts of climate change, we have no means of assessing or determining whether climate change is a known trend likely to come to fruition with a material impact on us. If climate change were to have an impact on our results of operations, the physical impacts of climate change could have an adverse effect on the sourcing of our raw materials. We may be required to pay more for the raw materials and/or move to alternative suppliers in new geographical areas. Risks Relating to Our Products, Technology and Know-how Our products, if and when any of them are approved, could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements, or if such products exhibit unacceptable problems. Any product for which we obtain marketing approval, together with the manufacturing processes, and advertising and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continued regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the uses for which the product may be marketed or to the conditions of approval, or contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product. Any adverse effects observed after the approval and marketing of a product candidate could result in the withdrawal of any approved products from the marketplace. Absence of long-term safety data may also limit the approved uses of our products, if any, to short-term use. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products or their manufacture, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in one or more of the following: • restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes; • withdrawal of the products from the market; • voluntary or mandatory recalls; • fines; • suspension of regulatory approvals; • product seizures; or • injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. If we are slow to adapt, or unable to adapt, to changes in existing regulatory requirements or adoption of new regulatory requirements or policies, we may lose marketing approval for them when and if any of them are approved, resulting in decreased revenue from milestones, product sales or royalties. If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective than our existing product candidates or any products that we may develop, or if they obtain marketing approval for their products before we do, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry is highly competitive. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are under increasing pressure to develop new products, particularly in view of lengthy product development and regulatory timelines, expiration of patent protection and recent setbacks experienced by several products previously approved for marketing. We compete with many companies that are developing therapies for the symptoms of menopause and the treatment of cancer. Several companies are developing products with technologies that are similar to ours. We also face competition in therapies for the symptoms of menopause from over-the-counter (OTC) dietary supplements. Many of our competitors may have greater financial and human resources or more experience in research and development than we have, and they may have established sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. If we or our collaborators receive regulatory approvals for our product candidates, some of our products will compete with well-established, FDA-approved therapies that have generated substantial sales over a number of years. In addition, we will face competition based on many different factors, including the following: • the safety and effectiveness of our products; 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS • the timing and scope of regulatory approvals for these products; • the availability and cost of manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities; • the effectiveness of our or our collaborator’s marketing and sales capabilities; • the price of our products; • the availability and amount of third-party reimbursement; and • the strength of our patent position. We also anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter our target markets and scientific developments surrounding cancer therapies and drugs for menopause continue to accelerate. Competitors may develop more effective or more affordable products, or may achieve patent protection or commercialize products before us or our collaborators. In addition, the health care industry is characterized by rapid technological change. New product introductions, technological advancements, or changes in the standard of care for our target diseases could make some or all of our products obsolete. Our lead product candidate for the treatment of menopausal symptoms, Menerba, would be expected to compete with postmenopausal hormone replacement therapy which has been the primary treatment of menopausal symptoms such as hot flashes. Leading hormonal agents include Premarin and Prempro by Wyeth Pharmaceuticals, Cenestin, Estradiol (generic) and Medroxy-Progesterone Acetate by Barr Pharmaceuticals, and Ogen, Provera and Estring by Pfizer. In addition, Menerba may be expected to compete with newer generation anti-depressants used to treat hot flash frequency, such as desvenlafaxine by Wyeth, fluoxetine by Eli Lilly and paroxetine by GlaxoSmithKline. The makers of these hormonal agents would compete directly with us relative to Menerba. Menerba may also face competition from over-the-counter dietary supplements. While we are developing Menerba to minimize many of the risks associated with long-term use of HT that have been observed in recent studies, further clinical testing of this product candidate has yet to be completed. In addition, certain hormone therapies may have advantages relative to Menerba, which may include greater efficacy and lower cost. We will face uncertainty in any commercialization of our product candidates relating to coverage, pricing and reimbursement due to health care reform and heightened scrutiny from third-party payers, which may make it difficult or impossible to sell our product candidates on commercially reasonable terms. Sales of prescription drugs depend significantly on access to the formularies, or lists of approved prescription drugs, of third-party payers such as government and private insurance plans, as well as the availability of reimbursement to the consumer from these third party payers. These third party payers frequently require drug companies to provide predetermined discounts from list prices, and they are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Our potential products may not be considered cost-effective, may not be added to formularies and reimbursement to the consumer may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our potential products on a competitive basis. In addition, the efforts of governments and third-party payers to contain or reduce the cost of health care will continue to affect the business and financial condition of drug companies such as us. A number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the health care system have been discussed in recent years, including price caps and controls for pharmaceuticals. These proposals could reduce or cap the prices for our potential products or reduce government reimbursement rates for such products. In addition, an increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States has and will continue to increase pressure on drug pricing. We cannot predict whether legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted or what effect those proposals or managed care efforts may have on our business. The announcement or adoption of such proposals or efforts could adversely affect our business. 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS Failure to secure patents and other proprietary rights or challenges to those patents and rights may significantly hurt our business. Our success will depend on our ability to obtain and maintain patents and proprietary rights for our potential products and to avoid infringing on the proprietary rights of others, both in the United States and in foreign countries. Patents may not be issued from any of these applications currently on file, or, if issued, may not provide sufficient protection. At present, we have about 140 patent applications pending in the United States Patent and Trademark Office as well as under the Patent Cooperation Treaty and in the European Patent Office, Japan, and other markets. Two patents for Bezielle (US 7482029 B1, issued March 29, 2006 and US 8110228, issued February 7, 2012) are entitled “Composition for Treatment of Menopause.” “Estrogenic Extracts of Morus alba and Uses Thereof,” (US 7815949 B1, issued October 19, 2010) and “Estrogenic extracts of Ligustrum lucidum ait. of the oleaceae family and uses thereof” (US 8092841, issued January 10, 2012), are patents that cover separate components of Menerba. Another patent (US 7700136, issued on April 20, 2010), for Bezielle is entitled “Scutellaria barbata Extract for the Treatment of Cancer.” Our patent position, like that of many pharmaceutical companies, is uncertain and involves complex legal and technical questions for which important legal principles are unresolved. We may not develop or obtain rights to products or processes that are patentable. Even if we do obtain patents, they may not adequately protect the technology we own or have licensed. In addition, others may challenge, seek to invalidate, infringe, or circumvent any patents we own or license, and rights we receive under those patents may not provide competitive advantages to us. Several drug companies and research and academic institutions have developed technologies, filed patent applications, or received patents for technologies that may be related to our business. In addition, we may not be aware of all patents or patent applications that may impact our ability to make, use, or sell any of our potential products. For example, US patent applications may be kept confidential while pending in the Patent and Trademark Office and patent applications filed in foreign countries are often first published six months or more after filing. Any conflicts resulting from the patent rights of others could limit our ability to obtain meaningful patent protection. If other companies obtain patents with conflicting claims, we may be required to obtain licenses to those patents or to develop or obtain alternative technology. We may not be able to obtain any such licenses on acceptable terms, or at all. Any failure to obtain such licenses could delay or prevent us from pursuing the development or commercialization of our potential products. We may also need to initiate litigation, which could be time-consuming and expensive, to enforce our proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of others’ rights. If any of our competitors have filed patent applications in the United States which claim technology we also have invented, the Patent and Trademark Office may require us to participate in expensive interference proceedings to determine who has the right to a patent for the technology. If third parties successfully assert that we have infringed their patents and proprietary rights or challenge the validity of our patents and proprietary rights, we may become involved in intellectual property disputes and litigation that would be costly, time consuming, and delay or prevent the development of our product candidates. The manufacture, use, or sale of our potential products may infringe on the patent rights of others. Any litigation to determine the scope and validity of such third party patent rights would be time-consuming and expensive. If we are found to infringe on the patent or intellectual property rights of others, we may be required to pay damages, stop the infringing activity, or obtain licenses covering the patents or other intellectual property in order to use, manufacture, or sell our products. Any required license may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we succeed in obtaining these licenses, payments under these licenses would reduce any earnings from our products. In addition, some licenses may be non-exclusive and, accordingly, our competitors may have access to the same technology as that which is licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to alter the design of our product candidates to make the licenses unnecessary, we may be unable to commercialize one or more of them, which could significantly affect our ability to achieve, sustain, or grow our commercial business. 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS If we are unable to protect our trade secrets, we may be unable to protect our interests in proprietary know-how that is not patentable or for which we have elected not to seek patent protection. In an effort to protect our unpatented proprietary technology, processes, and know-how, we require our employees, consultants, collaborators, and advisors to execute confidentiality agreements. These agreements, however, may not provide us with adequate protection against improper use or disclosure of confidential information. These agreements may be breached, and we may not become aware of, or have adequate remedies in the event of, any such breach. In addition, in some situations, these agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants, collaborators, or advisors have previous employment or consulting relationships. Also, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Our product candidates may have difficulties with market acceptance even after FDA approval. Even if we receive regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of our product candidates, the commercial success of these products will depend on, among other things, their acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payers and other members of the medical community as a therapeutic and cost-effective alternative to competing products and treatments. If our product candidates fail to gain market acceptance, we may be unable to earn sufficient revenue to continue our business. Market acceptance of, and demand for, any product candidate that we may develop and commercialize will depend on many factors, including the following: • our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy; • the prevalence and severity of side effects or other reactions; • the convenience and ease of use; • availability, relative cost and relative efficacy of alternative and competing products and treatments; • the effectiveness of our marketing and distribution strategy; • the publicity concerning our products or competing products and treatments; and • our ability to obtain third-party insurance coverage and adequate payment levels. If our product candidates do not become widely accepted by physicians, patients, third-party payers and other members of the medical community, we may be unable to achieve profitability. Additional clinical and non-clinical trials may be necessary as we progress to an NDA. While we have reached agreement with the FDA as to the clinical and non-clinical studies necessary for progression of Menerba to an NDA, including trial design and size, this is subject to change based on the results of said studies. For example, prior to initiation of the Menerba Phase 3 studies, the FDA requested an additional 13-week non-clinical toxicology study in rats and dogs, and a 28-day, 20-patient, open label clinical trial to assess tolerance of the higher dose planned. We cannot be certain whether or not additional studies might be considered necessary by the FDA, or whether or not the FDA may mandate changes to the other planned studies. Additionally, we cannot be certain whether or not the FDA review process will result in a delay to the initiation of the planned or additional clinical or non-clinical studies. Risks Related to Our Common Stock If our common stock is determined to be a “penny stock,” a broker-dealer may find it more difficult to trade our common stock and an investor may find it more difficult to acquire or dispose of our common stock in the secondary market. On February 7, 2012, we effected a voluntary delisting from The NASDAQ Capital Market and our common stock began trading on the OTCQB under the trading symbol “BNVI”. The SEC has adopted regulations that define a “penny stock” to include any equity security that has a market price per share of less than $5.00, subject to certain exceptions, and certain securities not listed on a national securities exchange. For any transaction involving a “penny stock,” unless exempt, the rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers, subject to certain exceptions. The last reported closing sales price of our 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS common stock on March 23, 2012 was $0.04 per share, as reported on the OTCQB. Although we do not believe that our common stock currently is a “penny stock” under Rule 3a51-1(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), because we are an issuer with net tangible assets in excess of $2 million and meet other requirements, if our net tangible assets were to decrease and our common stock was determined to be a “penny stock,” a broker-dealer may find it more difficult to trade our common stock and an investor may find it more difficult to acquire or dispose of our common stock on the secondary market. Investors in penny stocks should be prepared for the possibility that they may lose their whole investment. Volatility of our stock price could adversely affect stockholders. The market price of our common stock has been volatile, and fluctuates widely in price in response to various factors which are beyond our control. The price of our common stock is not necessarily indicative of our operating performance or long term business prospects. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. During the period from January 1, 2005 to March 23, 2012, the lowest and highest reported trading prices of our common stock, as reported in the OTCQB for the period from March 23, 2012 to February 7, 2012, or for the period from May 29, 2007 to February 6, 2012, as reported on The NASDAQ Capital Market, or for periods before May 29, 2007, as reported on the OTC Bulletin Board, were $0.03 and $34.00 (in each case, as adjusted to reflect the 1 for 5 reverse stock split on August 30, 2010). Factors such as the following could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition and operating results; • our funding requirements and terms of our financing arrangements; • the number of shares issued and outstanding; • the number of shares trading on an average trading day; • significant sales of our common stock; • results of preclinical studies and preclinical trials; • results relating to the safety or efficacy of products or product candidates; • the results of research or development testing of our or our competitors’ products; • technological innovations related to diseases we are studying; • new commercial products introduced by our competitors; • government regulation of our industry; • receipt of regulatory approvals by our competitors; • our failure to receive regulatory approvals for products under development; • developments concerning proprietary rights; • litigation or public concern about the safety of our products. • announcements regarding other participants in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries; or • market speculation regarding any of the foregoing. The stock market in general has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. In particular, market prices of securities of drug development companies have experienced fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating results of these companies. Continued market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the price of our common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of our common stock. Price volatility might be worse if the trading volume of our common stock is low. 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS In August 2010, we implemented a 1-for-5 reverse split of our common stock to address The NASDAQ Capital Market’s continuing listing requirement that our stock price exceed $1.00. Subsequently, we were informed by The NASDAQ Capital Market that we had regained compliance with NASDAQ. However, on March 14, 2011, we received a letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market stating that we were not in compliance with NASDAQ listing rules because we failed to maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share for the last 30 consecutive business days. NASDAQ granted us a period of 180 calendar days to regain compliance and on September 14, 2011, NASDAQ informed us that we had been granted an additional 180 calendar days, or until March 12, 2012 to regain compliance. On February 7, 2012, we effected a voluntary delisting from The NASDAQ Capital Market and our common stock began trading on the OTCQB under the trading symbol “BNVI”. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and provisions of applicable Delaware law may discourage, delay, or prevent a merger or other change in control that a stockholder may consider favorable. Pursuant to our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors may issue additional shares of common or preferred stock. Any additional issuance of common stock could have the effect of impeding or discouraging the acquisition of control of us by means of a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise, including a transaction in which our stockholders would receive a premium over the market price for their shares, and thereby protects the continuity of our management. Specifically, if in the due exercise of fiduciary obligations, the board of directors were to determine that a takeover proposal was not in our best interest, shares could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval in one or more transactions that might prevent or render more difficult or costly the completion of the takeover by any of the following: • diluting the voting or other rights of the proposed acquirer or insurgent stockholder group; • putting a substantial voting bloc in institutional or other hands that might undertake to support the incumbent board of directors; or • effecting an acquisition that might complicate or preclude the takeover. Our certificate of incorporation also allows our board of directors to fix the number of directors in the by-laws. Cumulative voting in the election of directors is specifically denied in our certificate of incorporation. The effect of these provisions may be to delay or prevent a tender offer or takeover attempt that a stockholder may determine to be in his, her or its best interest, including attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares held by the stockholders. We also are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In general, these provisions prohibit a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder is approved in a manner presented in Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Generally, a “business combination” is defined to include mergers, asset sales, and other transactions resulting in financial benefit to a stockholder. In general, an “interested stockholder” is a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns, or within three years did own, 15% or more of a corporation’s voting stock. This statute could prohibit or delay mergers or other takeover or change in control attempts and, accordingly, may discourage attempts to acquire us. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends for the foreseeable future, and therefore investors should not buy our stock if they wish to receive cash dividends. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends or distributions on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain our future earnings to support operations and to finance expansion and therefore we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS A significant number of our shares are eligible for sale and their sale or potential sale may depress the market price of our common stock. Sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public market could harm the market price of our common stock. As of March 23, 2012, we have four effective registration statements and have registered for resale up to 108,337,448 shares of our common stock and shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of warrants. As additional shares of our common stock become available for resale in the public market pursuant to that registration statement, and otherwise, the supply of our common stock will increase, which could decrease its price. Some or all of such shares of common stock may be offered from time to time in the open market and these sales may have a depressive effect on the market for our shares of common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 