Item 1A. Risk Factors. The reader should carefully consider each of the risks described below. If any of the following risks described below should occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information contained in this prospectus before deciding to invest in our common stock. Risks Associated with our Business Our business is dependent upon the PRC government’s educational policies and programs. As a provider of educational services, we are dependent upon governmental educational policies. Almost all of our revenue to date has been generated from the sale of test papers and materials relating to courses at different educational levels. To the extent that the government adopts policies or curriculum changes that significantly alter the testing and course materials used in the PRC educational system, our products could become obsolete, which would affect our ability to generate revenue and operate profitably. We cannot assure you that the PRC government agencies would not adopt such changes. We are subject to numerous PRC rules and regulations which restrict the scope of our business and could have a material adverse impact on us. We are subject to numerous rules and regulations in the PRC, including, without limitation, restrictions on foreign ownership of Internet and education companies and regulation of Internet content. Many of the rules and regulations that we face are not explicitly communicated, but arise from the fact that education and the Internet are politically sensitive areas of the economy. We are not aware that any of our agreements or our current organizational structure is in violation of any governmental requirements or restrictions, explicit or implicit. However, there can be no assurance that we are in compliance now, or will be in the future. Moreover, operating in the PRC involves a high risk that restrictive rules and regulations could change. Indeed, even changes of personnel at certain ministries of the government could have a negative impact on us. The determination that our structure or agreements are in violation of governmental rules or regulations in the PRC would have a material adverse impact on us, our business and on our financial results. Our business may be subject to seasonal and cyclical fluctuations in sales. We may experience seasonal fluctuations in our revenue in some regions in the PRC, based on the academic year and the tendency of parents and students to make purchases relating to their education just prior to or at the beginning of the school year in the autumn. Any seasonality may cause significant pressure on us to monitor the development of materials accurately and to anticipate and satisfy these requirements. 11 Our business is subject to the health of the PRC economy. The purchase of educational materials not provided by the state educational system is discretionary and dependent upon the ability and willingness of families or students to spend available funds on extra educational products to prepare for national examinations. A general economic downturn either in our market or a general economic downturn in the PRC could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, earnings, cash flow and working capital. We depend on our senior officers to manage and develop our business. Our success depends on the management skills of Mr. Xiqun Yu, our chief executive officer and president and his relationships with educators, administrators and other business contacts. We also depend on successfully recruiting and retaining highly skilled and experienced authors, teachers, managers, sales persons and other personnel who can function effectively in the PRC. In some cases, the market for these skilled employees is highly competitive. We may not be able to retain or recruit such personnel, which could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects and financial condition. We do not maintain key person insurance on these individuals. We do not have employment contracts with Mr. Yu or any other officers or employees. The loss of Mr. Yu would delay our ability to implement our business plan and would adversely affect our business. We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property and proprietary rights. Our intellectual property consists of old test papers, which are contained in our library, and courseware which we developed by engaging authors and educators to develop these materials. Our proprietary software products are primarily protected by trade secret laws. Although we require our authors and software development employees to sign confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements, we cannot assure you that we will be able to enforce those agreements or that our authors and software development employees will not be able to develop competitive products that do not infringe upon our proprietary rights. We do not know the extent that PRC courts will enforce our proprietary rights. Others may bring defamation and infringement actions against us, which could be time-consuming, difficult and expensive to defend. As a distributor of educational materials, we face potential liability for negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement and other claims based on the nature and content of the materials that we publish or distribute. Any claims could result in us incurring significant costs to investigate and defend regardless of the final outcome. We do not carry general liability insurance that would cover any potential or actual claims. The commencement of any legal action against us or any of our affiliates, whether or not we are successful in defending the action, could both require us to suspend or discontinue the distribution of some or a significant portion of our educational materials and require us to allocate resources to investigating or defending claims. We depend upon the acquisition and maintenance of licenses to conduct our business in the PRC. In order to conduct business in the PRC, we need licenses from the appropriate government authorities, including general business licenses and an education service provider license. The loss or failure to obtain or maintain these licenses in full force and effect will have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct our business and on our financial condition. Our growth may be inhibited by the inability of potential customers to fund purchases of our products and services. Many schools in the PRC, especially those in rural areas, do not have sufficient funds to purchase textbooks, educational materials or computers to use our web-based educational portal. In addition, provincial and local governments may not have the funds to support the implementation of a curriculum using our educational products or may allocate funds to programs which are different from our products. Our failure to be able to sell our products and services to students in certain areas of the PRC may inhibit our growth and our ability to operate profitably. 12 Changes in the policies of the government in the PRC could significant impact our ability to operate profitably. The economy of the PRC is a planned economy subject to five-year and annual plans adopted by the government that set down national economic development goals. Government policies can have significant effect on the economic conditions of the PRC generally and the educational system in particular. Although the government in the PRC has confirmed that economic development will follow a model of market economy under socialism, a change in the direction of government planning may materially affect our business, prospects and financial condition. Inflation in the PRC could negatively affect our profitability and growth. While the economy in the PRC has experienced rapid growth, such growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. If prices for our products rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in our costs, it may have an adverse effect on profitability. In order to control inflation in the past, the government has imposed controls in bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets purchase, and restrictions on state bank lending. Such an austerity policy can lead to a slowing economic growth which could impair our ability to operate profitably. If we make any acquisitions, they may disrupt or have a negative impact on our business. If we make acquisitions, we could have difficulty integrating personnel and operations of the acquired companies with our own. In addition, the key personnel of the acquired business may not be willing to work for us. We cannot predict the affect expansion which may have on our core business. Regardless of whether we are successful in making an acquisition, the negotiations could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. In addition to the risks described above, acquisitions are accompanied by a number of inherent risks, including, without limitation, the following: · the difficulty of integrating acquired products, services or operations; · the potential disruption of the ongoing businesses and distraction of our management and the management of acquired companies; · the difficulty of incorporating acquired rights or products into our existing business; · difficulties in disposing of the excess or idle facilities of an acquired company or business and expenses in maintaining such facilities; · difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; · the potential impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new management personnel; · the potential inability or failure to achieve additional sales and enhance our customer base through cross-marketing of the products to new and existing customers; 13 · the effect of any government regulations which relate to the business acquired; · potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses or product lines, or the need to spend significant amounts to retool, reposition or modify the marketing and sales of acquired products or the defense of any litigation, whether of not successful, resulting from actions of the acquired company prior to our acquisition. Our business could be severely impaired to the extent that we are unable to succeed in addressing any of these risks or other problems encountered in connection with these acquisitions, many of which cannot be presently identified, these risks and problems could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and adversely affect our results of operations. Our operations and assets in the PRC are subject to significant political and economic uncertainties. Government policies are subject to rapid change, and the government of the PRC may adopt policies which have the effect of hindering private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. There is no assurance that the government of the PRC will not significantly alter its policies from time to time without notice in a manner which reduces or eliminates any benefits from its present policies of economic reform. In addition, a substantial portion of productive assets in the PRC remains government-owned. For instance, all lands are state owned and leased to business entities or individuals through governmental granting of state-owned land use rights. The granting process is typically based on government policies at the time of granting, which could be lengthy and complex. The government of the PRC also exercises significant control over its economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Uncertainties may arise with changing of governmental policies and measures. In addition, changes in laws and regulations, or their interpretation, or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, imports and sources of supply, devaluations of currency, the nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises, as well as adverse changes in the political, economic or social conditions in the PRC, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Price controls may affect both our revenues and net income. The laws of the PRC provide the government broad power to fix and adjust prices. We need to obtain government approval in setting our prices for classroom coursework and tutorials. Although the sale of educational materials over the Internet is not presently subject to price controls, we cannot give you any assurance that they will not be subject to controls in the future. To the extent that we are subject to price control, our revenue, gross profit, gross margin and net income will be affected since the revenue we derive from our services will be limited and we may face no limitation on our costs. As a result, we may not be able to pass on to our students any increases in costs we incur, or any increases in the costs of our faculty. Further, if price controls affect both our revenue and our costs, our ability to be profitable and the extent of our profitability will be effectively subject to determination by the applicable PRC regulatory authorities. Our operations may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the PRC economy were similar to the market-oriented economies of most developed countries. The economy of the PRC has historically been a nationalistic, “planned economy,” meaning it functions and produces according to governmental plans and pre-set targets or quotas. In certain aspects, the PRC’s economy has been making a transition to a more market-oriented economy, although the government imposes price controls on certain products and in certain industries. However, we cannot predict the future direction of these economic reforms or the effects these measures may have. The economy of the PRC also differs from the economies of most developed countries including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. As a result of these differences, our business may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the economy of the PRC were similar to those of other developed countries. 14 Because our officers and directors reside outside of the United States, it may be difficult for you to enforce your rights against them or enforce United States court judgments against them in the PRC. Our directors and our executive officers reside in the PRC and all of our assets are located in the PRC. It may therefore be difficult for United States investors to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under federal securities laws. Further, it is unclear if extradition treaties now in effect between the United States and the PRC would permit effective enforcement of criminal penalties of the federal securities laws. We may have limited legal recourse under PRC law if disputes arise under contracts with third parties. All of our agreements, which are made by our PRC subsidiaries, are governed by the laws of the PRC. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Accordingly decided legal cases have little precedential value. The government of the PRC has enacted some laws and regulations dealing with matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, these laws are relatively new and their experience in implementing, interpreting and enforcing these laws and regulations is limited. Therefore, our ability to enforce commercial claims or to resolve commercial disputes may be uncertain. The resolution of these matters may be subject to the exercise of considerable discretion by the parties charged with enforcement of the applicable laws. Any rights we may have to specific performance or to seek an injunction under PRC law may be limited, and without a means of recourse, we may be unable to prevent these situations from occurring. The occurrence of any such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because we may not be able to obtain business insurance in the PRC, we may not be protected from risks that are customarily covered by insurance in the United States. Business insurance is not readily available in the PRC. To the extent that we suffer a loss of a type which would normally be covered by insurance in the United States, such as product liability and general liability insurance, we would incur significant expenses in both defending any action and in paying any claims that result from a settlement or judgment. Because our funds are held in banks which do not provide insurance, the failure of any bank in which we deposit our funds could affect our ability to continue in business. Banks and other financial institutions in the PRC do not provide insurance for funds held on deposit. As a result, in the event of a bank failure, we may not have access to funds on deposit. Depending upon the amount of money we maintain in a bank that fails, our inability to have access to our cash could impair our operations, and, if we are not able to access funds to pay our suppliers, employees and other creditors, we may be unable to continue in business. Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in the PRC. We can make no assurance, however, that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Fluctuations in the exchange rate could have a material adverse effect upon our business. We conduct our business in the Renminbi. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade old policy of pegging its currency to the U.S. currency. Under the current policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an approximately 17% appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar between July 21, 2005 and March 23, 2009. However, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. To the extent our future revenues are denominated in currencies other the United States dollars, we would be subject to increased risks relating to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and operating results since our operating results are reported in United States dollars and significant changes in the exchange rate could materially impact our reported earnings. Recent recalls of PRC products may affect the market for our stock. Although we do not sell consumer products in the international market, the recent recalls of PRC products in the United States and elsewhere could affect the market for our stock by causing investors to invest in companies that are not based on the PRC. Certain of our stockholders control a significant amount of our common stock. Approximately 57.9% of our outstanding common stock is owned by our chief executive officer, Mr. Xiqun Yu. Mr. Yu presently has the voting power to elect all of the directors and approve any transaction requiring stockholder approval. The terms on which we may raise additional capital may result in significant dilution and may impair our stock price. The terms of our recent private placement and the number of outstanding warrants and the exercise price and other terms on which we may issued common stock upon exercise of the warrants, may make it difficult for us to raise additional capital if required for our present business and for any planned expansion. We are prohibited from (i) issuing convertible debt or preferred stock until the earlier of May 2012 or until the investors have converted or exercised and sold the securities issued in the private placement or (ii) having debt in an amount greater than twice our EBITDA until May 2010 or until 90% of the securities have been converted or exercised and sold. The investors in the private placement also have a right of first refusal on future financings. We cannot assure you that we will be able to get additional financing on any terms, and, if we are able to raise funds, it may be necessary for us to sell our securities at a price which is at a significant discount from the market price and on other terms which may be disadvantageous to us. In connection with any such financing, we may be required to provide registration rights to the investors and pay damages to the investor in the event that the registration statement is not filed or declared effective by specified dates. The price and terms of any financing which would be available to us could result in both the issuance of a significant number of shares and significant downward pressure on our stock price and could result in a reduction of the conversion price of the series A preferred stock and exercise price of the warrants held by the investors in our May 2007 private placement. 16 We have paid liquidated damages and we may be required to pay additional liquidated damages if our board does not consist of a majority of independent directors and our audit committee does not consist of at least three independent directors. The purchase agreement relating to the May 2007 private placement requires us to appoint and maintain such number of independent directors that would result in a majority of our directors being independent directors, that the audit committee would be composed solely of at least three independent directors and the compensation committee would have a majority of independent directors by August 6, 2007. Liquidated damages are payable at the rate of 12% per annum, with a maximum of 12% of the purchase price, payable in cash or shares of series A preferred stock, as the investors may request. The maximum amount of liquidated damages which may be paid under this provision is $408,000. Our failure to comply with these requirements resulted in our payment of liquidated damages through the payment of $77,128 or the issuance of 208,456 shares of series A preferred stock as of October 15, 2007. The shares of series A preferred stock are convertible into 69,484 shares of common stock. The number of shares of series A preferred stock issued was based on the liquidation value of one share of series A preferred stock, which is $.37 per share. Although further liquidated damages for failure to comply with these provisions have been waived through December 31, 2007, if we are not in compliance with these provisions subsequent to December 31, 2007, we may be obligated to pay additional liquidated damages. Pursuant to the securities purchase agreement, as amended, the shares of series A preferred stock are valued at the liquidation value, which is $0.37 per share of series A preferred stock. Since the market price for our common stock on October 15, 2007 was $4.00 per share, the market value of the shares issued to the investors was approximately $277,944. If we are required to issue any additional shares of series A preferred stock pursuant to the securities purchase agreement, we are to issue the shares at the $0.37 per share liquidation value. If we are required to issue additional shares pursuant to the liquidated damages provisions of the securities purchase agreement and the market price of our common stock at the time the determination is made is greater than $1.11, which is the common stock equivalent of the liquidation value of the series A preferred stock, the investors will receive more shares of series A preferred stock than they would receive if the number of shares were based on the market value at the time of issuance. Since January 1, 2008, we have not been in compliance and are currently not in compliance with these provisions. As of December 31, 2008, unless otherwise waived by the investors, we are obligated to pay liquidated damages to the investors in an amount equal to approximately $130,056 or, issue approximately 351,503 shares of series A preferred stock (which are convertible into 117,168 shares of our common stock) to the investors, at the option of the investors. Such liquidated damages have been accrued as of December 31, 2008 and is included in accrued expenses. Assuming the investors elect to take the liquidated damages in stock and do not waive their right to receive such damages, and based on the market price for one share of our common stock on December 31, 2008, which was $1.20 per share, the market value of the shares which may be issued to the investors is approximately $140,602. Thereafter, if we are required to issue any additional shares of series A preferred stock pursuant to the securities purchase agreement, we are also to issue such additional shares at the $0.37 per share liquidation value. If we are required to issue additional shares pursuant to the liquidated damages provisions of the securities purchase agreement and the market price of our common stock at the time the determination is made is greater than $1.11, which is the common stock equivalent of the liquidation value of the series A preferred stock, the investors will receive more shares of series A preferred stock than they would receive if the number of shares were based on the market value at the time of issuance. 17 If we do not maintain the effectiveness of the registration of the shares of common stock being sold pursuant to this prospectus in a timely manner, we will be required to issue additional shares of series A preferred stock as liquidated damages. The registration rights agreement which we executed in connection with the sale of the convertible notes initially required us to issue additional shares of series A preferred stock if we failed to file a registration statement by July 7, 2007, and have the registration statement declared effective by November 5, 2007, and keep the registration statement current and effective thereafter. The registration rights agreement was amended to eliminate liquidated damages for failure to file this registration statement when required and to waive any liquidated damages due as a result of our failure to have the registration statement declared effective through December 31, 2007. The agreement provides that the liquidated damages are a maximum of 2,130 of series A preferred stock per day, up to a maximum of 900,000 shares of series A preferred stock. However, since, pursuant to the SEC’s rules relating to secondary offerings, we are not able to register all of the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the series A preferred stock or exercise of the warrants, the number of shares is reduced to a fraction of 2,130 shares, of which the numerator is the number of shares being registered (2,250,000) and the denominator is the number of shares issuable upon conversion of all of the series A preferred stock (3,063,063), which is 1,565 shares per day. Since our registration statement was declared effective on December 28, 2007 and our post-effective amendment was declared effective on October 24, 2008, we were not obligated to pay any liquidated damages pursuant to the registration rights agreement. The registration rights agreement also provides for additional demand registration right in the event that the investors are not able to register all of the shares in the initial registration statement. The investors have a right of first refusal on future financings. Risks Associated with Investing in our Common Stock The rights of the holders of common stock may be impaired by the potential issuance of preferred stock. Our board of directors has the right, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with voting, dividend, conversion, liquidation or other rights which could adversely affect the voting power and equity interest of the holders of common stock., which could be issued with the right to more than one vote per share, could be utilized as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change of control. The possible impact on takeover attempts could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Although we have no present intention to issue any additional shares of preferred stock or to create any new series of preferred stock other than issuances required pursuant to liquidated damages provisions arising for the agreements we signed in connection with the May 2007 private placement, we may issue such shares in the future. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results and stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting. Internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our operating results could be harmed. Under the current SEC regulations, we will be required to include a management report on internal controls over financial reporting in our Form 10-K annual report for the year ended December 31, 2008, and we will be required to include an auditor’s report on internal controls over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2009. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment, regardless of whether we are required to maintain such controls, could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Although we are not aware of anything that would impact our ability to maintain effective internal controls, we have not obtained an independent audit of our internal controls, and, as a result, we are not aware of any deficiencies which would result from such an audit. Further, at such time as we are required to comply with the internal controls requirements of Sarbanes Oxley, we may incur significant expenses in having our internal controls audited and in implementing any changes which are required. Because of our cash requirements and restrictions in our preferred stock purchase agreement as well as potential government restrictions, we may be unable to pay dividends. We are prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock while our series A preferred stock is outstanding. In addition, payment of dividends to our shareholders would require payment of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries to us. This, in turn, would require a conversion of Renminbi into US dollars and repatriation of funds to the United States. Although our subsidiaries’ classification as wholly-owned foreign enterprises under PRC law permits them to declare dividends and repatriate their funds to us in the United States, any change in this status or the regulations permitting such repatriation could prevent them from doing so. Any inability to repatriate funds to us would in turn prevent payments of dividends to our shareholders. 18 Because we may be subject to the “penny stock” rules, you may have difficulty in selling our common stock. Because our stock price is less than $5.00 per share, our stock may be subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements and restrictions on broker-dealers that sell our stock to persons other than established customers and institutional accredited investors. The application of these rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and may affect your ability to sell any common stock you may own. According to the SEC, the market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. Such patterns include: · Control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; · Manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; · “Boiler room” practices involving high pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; · Excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differentials and markups by selling broker-dealers; and · The wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level, along with the inevitable collapse of those prices with consequent investor losses. As an issuer of “penny stock” the protection provided by the federal securities laws relating to forward looking statements does not apply to us. Although the federal securities law provide a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by a public company that files reports under the federal securities laws, this safe harbor is not available to issuers of penny stocks. As a result, if we are a penny stock we will not have the benefit of this safe harbor protection in the event of any based upon an claim that the material provided by us contained a material misstatement of fact or was misleading in any material respect because of our failure to include any statements necessary to make the statements not misleading. Our stock price may be affected by our failure to meet projections and estimates of earnings developed either by us or by independent securities analysts. Although we do not make projections relating to our future operating results, our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In this event, the market price of our common stock would likely be materially adversely affected. The volatility of and limited trading market in our common stock may make it difficult for you to sell our common stock for a positive return on your investment. The public market for our common stock has historically been very volatile. Over the recent years, the market price for our common stock has ranged from $0.26 to $6.40. Any future market price for our shares is likely to continue to be very volatile. Further, our common stock is not actively traded, which may amplify the volatility of our stock. These factors may make it more difficult for you to sell shares of common stock. 19 The registration and potential sale, either pursuant to a prospectus or pursuant to Rule 144, by certain of our selling stockholders of a significant number of shares could encourage short sales by third parties. There may be significant downward pressure on our stock price caused by the sale or potential sale of a significant number of shares by certain of our selling stockholders pursuant to this prospectus, which could allow short sellers of our stock an opportunity to take advantage of any decrease in the value of our stock. The presence of short sellers in our common stock may further depress the price of our common stock. If the selling stockholders sell a significant number of shares of common stock, the market price of our common stock may decline. Furthermore, the sale or potential sale of the offered shares pursuant to a prospectus and the depressive effect of such sales or potential sales could make it difficult for us to raise funds from other sources. Item 1B.Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 