Item 1A. Risk Factors Stockholders should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with the other information included and incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. This discussion highlights some of the risks which may affect future operating results. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results would likely suffer. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry We have a history of net losses, which we expect to continue for the foreseeable future and, as a result, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when, if ever, we will become profitable or if we will be able to continue as a going concern. We have incurred $39.4 million in cumulative net loss from our inception in 2002, and we expect losses to continue for the foreseeable future. Our net loss for 2008 was $16.7 million. Our net loss for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 was $12.9 million, and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 was $5.6 million. To date, we have only recognized revenues from a technology license and a National Institute of health (“NIH”) grant drawdown. On October 15, 2007, we terminated the technology license agreement. We do not anticipate generating significant revenues from sales of our products, if approved, for at least several years, if at all. All of our product candidates are in development and none have been approved for commercial sale. We expect to increase our operating expenses over the next several years as we expand clinical trials for our product candidates currently in clinical development, including MenerbaTM and BZL101, advance our other anti-cancer and women’s health product candidates into clinical trials, expand our research and development activities, and seek regulatory approvals and eventually engage in commercialization activities in anticipation of potential FDA approval of our product candidates. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing our product candidates and their potential for commercialization, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we are unable to achieve and sustain profitability, the market value of our common stock will likely decline and we may not be able to continue as a going concern. 11 Table of Contents We have a limited operating history and are considered a development stage company. We are considered a development stage company for accounting purposes because we have not generated any material revenues to date. Accordingly, we have limited relevant operating history upon which an evaluation of our performance and prospects can be made. We are subject to all of the business risks associated with a new enterprise, including, but not limited to, risks of unforeseen capital requirements, failure of market acceptance, failure to establish business relationships and competitive disadvantages as against larger and more established companies. Our product development and commercialization involves a number of uncertainties, and we may never generate sufficient revenues from the sale of potential products to become profitable. We have generated no significant revenues to date. To generate revenue and to achieve profitability, we must successfully develop, clinically test, market and sell our potential products. Even if we generate revenue and successfully achieve profitability, we cannot predict the level of that profitability or whether it will be sustainable. We expect that our operating results will fluctuate from period to period as a result of differences in when we incur expenses and receive revenues from sales of our potential products, collaborative arrangements and other sources. Some of these fluctuations may be significant. All of our products in development will require extensive additional development, including preclinical testing and human studies, as well as regulatory approvals, before we can market them. We cannot predict if or when any of the products we are developing or those being co-developed with us will be approved for marketing. There are many reasons that we or our collaborative partners may fail in our efforts to develop our potential products, including the possibility that: • preclinical testing or human studies may show that our potential products are ineffective or cause harmful side effects; • the products may fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals from the FDA or foreign authorities in a timely manner, or at all; • the products, if approved, may not be produced in commercial quantities or at reasonable costs; • the potential products, once approved, may not achieve commercial acceptance; • regulatory or governmental authorities may apply restrictions to our potential products, which could adversely affect their commercial success; or • the proprietary rights of other parties may prevent us or our partners from marketing our potential products. Our drug development programs will require substantial additional future funding which could hurt our operational and financial condition. Our drug development programs require substantial additional capital to successfully complete them, arising from costs to: • conduct research, preclinical testing and human studies; • establish pilot scale and commercial scale manufacturing processes and facilities; and • establish and develop quality control, regulatory and administrative capabilities to support these programs. Our future operating and capital needs will depend on many factors, including: • the pace of scientific progress in our research and development programs and the magnitude of these programs; • the scope and results of preclinical testing and human studies; • the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; • the time and costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims; • competing technological and market developments; • our ability to establish additional collaborations; • changes in our existing collaborations; • the cost of manufacturing scale-up; and • the effectiveness of our commercialization activities. We base our outlook regarding the need for funds on many uncertain variables. Such uncertainties include regulatory approvals, the timing of events outside our direct control such as negotiations with potential strategic partners and other factors. Any of these uncertain events can significantly change our cash requirements as they determine such one-time events as the receipt of major milestones and other payments. If additional funds are required to support our operations and we are unable to obtain them on favorable terms, we may be required to cease or reduce further development or commercialization of our potential products, to sell some or all of our technology or assets or to merge with another entity. 12 Table of Contents Our potential products face significant regulatory hurdles prior to marketing which could delay or prevent sales. Before we obtain the approvals necessary to sell any of our potential products, we must show through preclinical studies and human testing that each potential product is safe and effective. We have a number of products moving toward or currently in clinical trials. Failure to show any potential product’s safety and effectiveness would delay or prevent regulatory approval of the product and could adversely affect our business. The clinical trials process is complex and uncertain. The results of preclinical studies and initial clinical trials may not necessarily predict the results from later large-scale clinical trials. In addition, clinical trials may not demonstrate a potential product’s safety and effectiveness to the satisfaction of the regulatory authorities. A number of companies have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials or in seeking regulatory approvals, despite promising results in earlier trials. The rate at which we complete our clinical trials depends on many factors, including our ability to obtain adequate supplies of the potential products to be tested and patient enrollment. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the eligibility criteria for the trial. Delays in patient enrollment may result in increased costs and longer development times. In addition, future collaborative partners may have rights to control product development and clinical programs for products developed under the collaborations. As a result, these collaborators may conduct these programs more slowly or in a different manner than we had expected. Even if clinical trials are completed, we or our collaborative partners still may not apply for FDA approval in a timely manner or the FDA still may not grant approval. In addition, the manufacturing and marketing of approved potential products is subject to extensive government regulation, including by the FDA, DEA and state and other territorial authorities. The FDA administers processes to assure that marketed products are safe, effective, consistently uniform, of high quality and marketed only for approved indications. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in sanctions up to the suspension of regulatory approval as well as civil and criminal sanctions. Failure to obtain regulatory approvals in foreign jurisdictions would prevent us from marketing our products internationally. We intend to have our product candidates marketed outside the United States. In order to market products in the European Union, Asia and many other non-U.S. jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. We may be unable to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional and costly clinical testing and data review. The time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory agencies in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory agencies in other foreign countries or by the FDA. The failure to obtain these approvals could harm our business and result in decreased revenues. We expect to rely heavily on collaborative relationships and termination of any of these programs could reduce the financial resources available to us, including research funding and milestone payments. Our strategy for developing and commercializing many of our potential products, including products aimed at larger markets, includes entering into collaborations with corporate partners, licensors, licensees and others. These collaborations will provide us with funding and research and development resources for potential products. These agreements also will give our collaborative partners significant discretion when deciding whether or not to pursue any development program. Our collaborations may not be successful. In addition, our collaborators may develop drugs, either alone or with others, which compete with the types of drugs they currently are developing with us. This would result in less support and increased competition for our programs. If any of our collaborative partners breach or terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to conduct their collaborative activities successfully, our product development under these agreements will be delayed or terminated. We may have disputes in the future with our collaborators, including disputes concerning who owns the rights to any technology developed. These and other possible disagreements between us and our collaborators could delay our ability and the ability of our collaborators to achieve milestones or our receipt of other payments. In addition, any disagreements could delay, interrupt or terminate the collaborative research, development and commercialization of certain potential products, or could result in litigation or arbitration. The occurrence of any of these problems could be time-consuming and expensive and could adversely affect our business. 13 Table of Contents There is a substantial risk of product liability claims in our business. If we are unable to obtain sufficient insurance, a product liability claim against us could adversely affect our business. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our product candidates in human clinical trials and will face even greater risks upon any commercialization by us of our product candidates. We have product liability insurance covering our clinical trials at a level appropriate for the industry, which we currently believe is adequate to cover any product liability exposure we may have. Clinical trial and product liability insurance is volatile and may become increasingly expensive. As a result, we may be unable to obtain sufficient insurance or increase our existing coverage at a reasonable cost to protect us against losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business. An individual may bring a product liability claim against us if one of our products or product candidates causes, or is claimed to have caused, an injury or is found to be unsuitable for consumer use. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in: • liabilities that substantially exceed our product liability insurance, which we would then be required to pay from other sources, if available; • an increase of our product liability insurance rates or the inability to maintain insurance coverage in the future on acceptable terms, or at all; • withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers or patients; • damage to our reputation and the reputation of our products, resulting in lower sales; • regulatory investigations that could require costly recalls or product modifications; • litigation costs; and • the diversion of management’s attention from managing our business. Claims relating to any improper handling, storage or disposal of biological and hazardous materials by us could be time-consuming and costly. Our research and development activities in our Denver, Colorado and Emeryville, California facilities involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials. We are subject to government regulations relating to the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these hazardous materials comply with the standards prescribed by applicable laws and regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result or we could be penalized with fines, and any liability could exceed the limits of or fall outside our insurance coverage. We may not be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms, or at all. Further, we could be required to incur significant costs to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations. Because we have limited manufacturing experience, we depend on third-party manufacturers to manufacture product candidates for us. If we cannot rely on third-party manufacturers, we will be required to incur significant costs and devote significant efforts to establish our own manufacturing facilities and capabilities. We do not have any manufacturing experience, nor do we currently have any manufacturing facilities. We currently rely upon third-party manufacturers to manufacture all clinical quantities of our product candidates. We depend on these third-party manufacturers to perform their obligations in a timely manner and in accordance with applicable governmental regulations. Our third-party manufacturers may encounter difficulties with meeting our requirements, including problems involving: • inconsistent production yields; • poor quality control and assurance or inadequate process controls; and • lack of compliance with regulations set forth by the FDA or other foreign regulatory agencies. These contract manufacturers may not be able to manufacture our product candidates at a cost or in quantities necessary to make them commercially viable. We also have no control over whether third-party manufacturers breach their agreements with us or whether they may terminate or decline to renew agreements with us. To date, our third party manufacturers have met our manufacturing requirements, but we cannot assure you that they will continue to do so. Furthermore, changes in the manufacturing process or procedure, including a change in the location where the drug is manufactured or a change of a third-party manufacturer, may require prior FDA review and approval in accordance with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMPs. There are comparable foreign requirements. This review may be costly and time-consuming and could delay or prevent the launch of a product. The FDA or similar foreign regulatory agencies at any time may also implement new standards, or change their interpretation and enforcement of existing standards for manufacture, packaging or testing of products. If we or our contract manufacturers are unable to comply, we or they may be subject to regulatory action, civil actions or penalties. If we are unable to enter into agreements with additional manufacturers on commercially reasonable terms, or if there is poor manufacturing performance on the part of our third party manufacturers, we may not be able to complete development of, or market, our product candidates. 14 Table of Contents If we lose the services of our co-founders who serve as directors and officers of our company, our operations could be disrupted and our business could be harmed. Our business plan relies significantly on the continued services of our co-founders, Isaac Cohen and Mary Tagliaferri. If we were to lose the services of one or both of them, our ability to continue to execute our business plan could be materially impaired. Neither Mr. Cohen nor Dr. Tagliaferri has indicated they intend to leave our company, and we are not aware of any facts or circumstances that suggest either of them might leave us. Risks Relating to Our Products, Technology and Know-how Our products, if and when any of them are approved, could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements, or if such products exhibit unacceptable problems. Any product for which we obtain marketing approval, together with the manufacturing processes, and advertising and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continued regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the uses for which the product may be marketed or to the conditions of approval, or contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product. Any adverse effects observed after the approval and marketing of a product candidate could result in the withdrawal of any approved products from the marketplace. Absence of long-term safety data may also limit the approved uses of our products, if any, to short-term use. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products or their manufacture, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in: • restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes; • withdrawal of the products from the market; • voluntary or mandatory recalls; • fines; • suspension of regulatory approvals; • product seizures; or • injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. If we are slow to adapt, or unable to adapt, to changes in existing regulatory requirements or adoption of new regulatory requirements or policies, we may lose marketing approval for them when and if any of them are approved, resulting in decreased revenue from milestones, product sales or royalties. If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective than our existing product candidates or any products that we may develop, or if they obtain marketing approval for their products before we do, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry is highly competitive. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are under increasing pressure to develop new products, particularly in view of lengthy product development and regulatory timelines, expiration of patent protection and recent setbacks experienced by several products previously approved for marketing. We compete with many companies that are developing therapies for the treatment of cancer and the symptoms of menopause. Several companies are developing products with technologies that are similar to ours. We also face competition in the field of cancer treatment and therapies for the symptoms of menopause from academic institutions and governmental agencies. Many of our competitors may have greater financial and human resources or more experience in research and development than we have, and they may have established sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. If we or our collaborators receive regulatory approvals for our product candidates, some of our products will compete with well-established, FDA-approved therapies that have generated substantial sales over a number of years. In addition, we will face competition based on many different factors, including: • the safety and effectiveness of our products; • the timing and scope of regulatory approvals for these products; • the availability and cost of manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities; • the effectiveness of our or our collaborators marketing and sales capabilities; • the price of our products; • the availability and amount of third-party reimbursement; and • the strength of our patent position. We also anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter our target markets and scientific developments surrounding cancer therapies and drugs for menopause continue to accelerate. Competitors may develop more effective or more affordable products, or may achieve patent protection or commercialize products before us or our collaborators. In addition, the health care industry is characterized by rapid technological change. New product introductions, technological advancements, or changes in the standard of care for our target diseases could make some or all of our products obsolete. While we are developing BZL101 to minimize many of the adverse side effects associated with the above breast cancer treatments, further clinical testing has yet to be completed, and certain of the above drug therapies may have advantages relative to BZL101, which may include selective patient population, greater efficacy and lower cost. 15 Table of Contents Our lead product candidate for the treatment of menopausal symptoms, MenerbaTM, would be expected to compete with postmenopausal hormone replacement therapy which has been the primary treatment of menopausal symptoms such as hot flashes. Leading hormonal agents include Premarin and Prempro by Wyeth Pharmaceuticals, Cenestin, Estradiol (generic) and Medroxy-Progesterone Acetate by Barr Pharmaceuticals, and Ogen, Provera and Estring by Pfizer. In addition, MenerbaTM may be expected to compete with newer generation anti-depressants used to treat hot flash frequency, such as venlafaxine by Wyeth, fluoxetine by Eli Lilly and paroxetine by Glaxo Smith Kline. The makers of these hormonal agents would compete directly with us relative to MenerbaTM. While we are developing MenerbaTM to minimize many of the risks associated with long-term use of HT indicated in recent studies and further clinical testing has yet to be completed, certain hormone therapies may have advantages relative to MF 101. These advantages may include greater efficacy and lower cost. We will face uncertainty in any commercialization of our product candidates relating to coverage, pricing and reimbursement due to health care reform and heightened scrutiny from third-party payers, which may make it difficult or impossible to sell our product candidates on commercially reasonable terms. Sales of prescription drugs depend significantly on access to the formularies, or lists of approved prescription drugs, of third-party payers such as government and private insurance plans, as well as the availability of reimbursement to the consumer from these third party payers. These third party payers frequently require drug companies to provide predetermined discounts from list prices, and they are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Our potential products may not be considered cost-effective, may not be added to formularies and reimbursement to the consumer may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our potential products on a competitive basis. In addition, the efforts of governments and third-party payers to contain or reduce the cost of health care will continue to affect the business and financial condition of drug companies such as us. A number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the health care system have been discussed in recent years, including price caps and controls for pharmaceuticals. These proposals could reduce and/or cap the prices for our potential products or reduce government reimbursement rates for such products. In addition, an increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States has and will continue to increase pressure on drug pricing. We cannot predict whether legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted or what effect those proposals or managed care efforts may have on our business. The announcement and/or adoption of such proposals or efforts could adversely affect our business. Failure to secure patents and other proprietary rights or challenges to those patents and rights may significantly hurt our business. Our success will depend on our ability to obtain and maintain patents and proprietary rights for our potential products and to avoid infringing the proprietary rights of others, both in the United States and in foreign countries. Patents may not be issued from any of these applications currently on file, or, if issued, may not provide sufficient protection. To date, we have filed twenty-five (25) patent applications with the United States Patent and Trademark Office as well as in the European Community, Japan and other emerging markets and two patent applications with the Taiwan Intellectual Property Office. One of the patents (US7482029) for MenerbaTM (MF101) titled “Composition for Treatment of Menopause” was issued with an effective date of March 29, 2006. Our patent position, like that of many pharmaceutical companies, is uncertain and involves complex legal and technical questions for which important legal principles are unresolved. We may not develop or obtain rights to products or processes that are patentable. Even if we do obtain patents, they may not adequately protect the technology we own or have licensed. In addition, others may challenge, seek to invalidate, infringe or circumvent any patents we own or license, and rights we receive under those patents may not provide competitive advantages to us. Several drug companies and research and academic institutions have developed technologies, filed patent applications or received patents for technologies that may be related to our business. In addition, we may not be aware of all patents or patent applications that may impact our ability to make, use or sell any of our potential products. For example, US patent applications may be kept confidential while pending in the Patent and Trademark Office and patent applications filed in foreign countries are often first published six months or more after filing. Any conflicts resulting from the patent rights of others could limit our ability to obtain meaningful patent protection. If other companies obtain patents with conflicting claims, we may be required to obtain licenses to those patents or to develop or obtain alternative technology. We may not be able to obtain any such licenses on acceptable terms, or at all. Any failure to obtain such licenses could delay or prevent us from pursuing the development or commercialization of our potential products. We may also need to initiate litigation, which could be time-consuming and expensive, to enforce our proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of others’ rights. If any of our competitors have filed patent applications in the United States which claim technology we also have invented, the Patent and Trademark Office may require us to participate in expensive interference proceedings to determine who has the right to a patent for the technology. 16 Table of Contents If third parties successfully assert that we have infringed their patents and proprietary rights or challenge the validity of our patents and proprietary rights, we may become involved in intellectual property disputes and litigation that would be costly, time consuming, and delay or prevent the development of our product candidates. The manufacture, use or sale of our potential products may infringe the patent rights of others. Any litigation to determine the scope and validity of such third party patent rights would be time consuming and expensive. If we are found to infringe on the patent or intellectual property rights of others, we may be required to pay damages, stop the infringing activity or obtain licenses covering the patents or other intellectual property in order to use, manufacture or sell our products. Any required license may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we succeed in obtaining these licenses, payments under these licenses would reduce any earnings from our products. In addition, some licenses may be non-exclusive and, accordingly, our competitors may have access to the same technology as that which is licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to alter the design of our product candidates to make the licenses unnecessary, we may be unable to commercialize one or more of them, which could significantly affect our ability to achieve, sustain or grow our commercial business. If we are unable to protect our trade secrets, we may be unable to protect our interests in proprietary know-how that is not patentable or for which we have elected not to seek patent protection. In an effort to protect our unpatented proprietary technology, processes and know-how, we require our employees, consultants, collaborators and advisors to execute confidentiality agreements. These agreements, however, may not provide us with adequate protection against improper use or disclosure of confidential information. These agreements may be breached, and we may not become aware of, or have adequate remedies in the event of, any such breach. In addition, in some situations, these agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants, collaborators or advisors have previous employment or consulting relationships. Also, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Our product candidates may have difficulties with market acceptance even after FDA approval. Even if we receive regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of our product candidates, the commercial success of these products will depend on, among other things, their acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payers and other members of the medical community as a therapeutic and cost-effective alternative to competing products and treatments. If our product candidates fail to gain market acceptance, we may be unable to earn sufficient revenue to continue our business. Market acceptance of, and demand for, any product candidate that we may develop and commercialize will depend on many factors, including: • our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy; • the prevalence and severity of side effects or other reactions; • the convenience and ease of use; • availability, relative cost and relative efficacy of alternative and competing products and treatments; • the effectiveness of our marketing and distribution strategy; • the publicity concerning our products or competing products and treatments; and • our ability to obtain third-party insurance coverage and adequate payment levels. If our product candidates do not become widely accepted by physicians, patients, third-party payers and other members of the medical community, we may be unable to achieve profitability. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We will need additional capital to conduct our operations and develop our products, and our ability to obtain the necessary funding is uncertain. We will require substantial capital resources in order to conduct our operations and develop our therapeutic products, and we cannot assure you that our existing capital resources, proceeds from this offering and the exercise of outstanding warrants and interest income will be sufficient to fund our current and planned operations. The timing and degree of any future capital requirements will depend on many factors. We do not have any committed sources of capital. Additional financing through grants, strategic collaborations, public or private equity financings or other financing sources may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. The receptivity of the public and private equity markets to proposed financings is substantially affected by the general economic, market and political climate and by other factors which are unpredictable and over which we have no control. Additional equity financings, if we obtain them, could result in significant dilution to shareholders. Further, in the event that additional funds are obtained through arrangements with collaborative partners, these arrangements may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, product candidates or products that we would otherwise seek to develop and commercialize ourselves. If sufficient capital is not available within the next quarters, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our programs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are not able to secure additional capital by the end of the year, we may be forced to terminate operations altogether in 2010. 17 Table of Contents Volatility of our stock price could adversely affect stockholders. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. During the period from January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2008, the lowest and highest reported trading prices of our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market, or for periods before May 29, 2007, as reported on the OTC Bulletin Board, were $0.11 and $6.80. Factors such as the following could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially: • the results of research or development testing of our or our competitors’ products; • technological innovations related to diseases we are studying; • new commercial products introduced by our competitors; • government regulation of our industry; • receipt of regulatory approvals by our competitors; • our failure to receive regulatory approvals for products under development; • developments concerning proprietary rights; or • litigation or public concern about the safety of our products. The stock market in general has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. In particular, market prices of securities of drug development companies have experienced fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating results of these companies. Continued market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the price of our common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of our common stock. Price volatility might be worse if the trading volume of our common stock is low. Our principal stockholders have significant voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interest of other stockholders. Our officers, directors and principal stockholders control approximately 26% of our currently outstanding common stock. This concentration of ownership may not be in the best interests of all our stockholders. If these stockholders act together, they may be able to exert significant control over our management and affairs requiring stockholder approval, including approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and provisions of applicable Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or other change in control that a stockholder may consider favorable. Pursuant to our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors may issue additional shares of common or preferred stock. Any additional issuance of common stock could have the effect of impeding or discouraging the acquisition of control of us by means of a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise, including a transaction in which our stockholders would receive a premium over the market price for their shares, and thereby protects the continuity of our management. Specifically, if in the due exercise of his/her or its fiduciary obligations, the board of directors were to determine that a takeover proposal was not in our best interest, shares could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval in one or more transactions that might prevent or render more difficult or costly the completion of the takeover by: • diluting the voting or other rights of the proposed acquirer or insurgent stockholder group; • putting a substantial voting block in institutional or other hands that might undertake to support the incumbent board of directors; or • effecting an acquisition that might complicate or preclude the takeover. Our certificate of incorporation also allows our board of directors to fix the number of directors in the by-laws. Cumulative voting in the election of directors is specifically denied in our certificate of incorporation. The effect of these provisions may be to delay or prevent a tender offer or takeover attempt that a stockholder may determine to be in his, her or its best interest, including attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares held by the stockholders. 18 Table of Contents We also are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In general, these provisions prohibit a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder is approved in a manner presented in Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Generally, a ”business combination” is defined to include mergers, asset sales and other transactions resulting in financial benefit to a stockholder. In general, an ”interested stockholder” is a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns, or within three years, did own, 15% or more of a corporation’s voting stock. This statute could prohibit or delay mergers or other takeover or change in control attempts and, accordingly, may discourage attempts to acquire us. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends for the foreseeable future, and therefore investors should not buy our stock if they wish to receive cash dividends. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends or distributions on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain our future earnings to support operations and to finance expansion and therefore we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. A significant number of our shares are eligible for sale and their sale or potential sale may depress the market price of our common stock. Sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public market could harm the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2008, we have two effective registration statements registering the resale of up to 71,179,293 shares of our outstanding common stock and shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of warrants, which represents a significant majority of our currently outstanding shares of common stock. As additional shares of our common stock become available for resale in the public market pursuant to that registration statement, and otherwise, the supply of our common stock will increase, which could decrease its price. Some or all of such shares of common stock may be offered from time to time in the open market and these sales may have a depressive effect on the market for our shares of common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 