Item 1A Risk Factors - --------------------- An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. These risks should be considered carefully with the uncertainties described below, and all other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before deciding whether to purchase our common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to management or that management currently deems immaterial may also become important factors that may harm our business, financial condition or results or operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks and uncertainties and you may lose part or all of your investment. Certain statements in this report contain forward-looking information. In general, forward-looking statements include estimates of future revenues, cash flows, capital expenditures, or other financial items and assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Forward-looking statements reflect management's current expectations regarding future events and use words such as "anticipate", "believe", "expect", "may", "will" and other similar terminology. These statements speak only as of the date they were made and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Several factors, many beyond our control, could cause actual results to differ materially from management's expectations. Our Business Could Be Materially Adversely Affected If We Are Unable To Expand In A Timely And Profitable Manner - ---------------------------------------- To grow successfully, we must open new restaurants on a timely and profitable basis. We have experienced delays in restaurant openings from time to time and may experience delays in the future. During our fiscal year 2006, we, as general partner of the limited partnerships which own the Pembroke Pines, Florida and Davie, Florida restaurants, submitted building plans to the appropriate governmental agencies for building permits and expected, at a minimum, to open these two (2) new restaurants during our fiscal year 2007. Due to delays in the permitting process and construction, the Pembroke Pines, Florida restaurant only opened for business during the first quarter of fiscal year 2008 and the Davie, Florida restaurant is not expected to open for business before the third quarter of our fiscal year 2008. Increases in labor and building material costs increased the cost of planned renovations to the Davie, Florida restaurant by approximately $1,000,000. Our ability to open and profitably operate restaurants and/or package liquor stores is subject to various risks such as identification and availability of suitable and economically viable locations, the negotiation of acceptable leases or the purchase terms of existing locations, the availability of limited partner investors or other means to raise capital, 20 the need to obtain all required governmental permits (including zoning approvals) on a timely basis, the need to comply with other regulatory requirements, the availability of necessary contractors and subcontractors, the availability of construction materials and labor, the ability to meet construction schedules and budgets, variations in labor and building material costs, changes in weather or other acts of God that could result in construction delays and adversely affect the results of one or more restaurants and/or package liquor stores for an indeterminate amount of time. If we are unable to successfully manage these risks, we will face increased costs and lower than anticipated revenues which will materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. General Economic Factors May Adversely Affect Results of Operations - ------------------------------------------------------------------- National, regional and local economic conditions, such as recessionary economic cycles, a protracted economic slowdown or a worsening economy could adversely affect disposable consumer income and consumer confidence. Unfavorable changes in these factors or in other business and economic condition affecting our customers could reduce customer traffic in some or all of our restaurants and/or package liquor stores, impose practical limits on pricing and increase costs, any of which could lower profit margins and have a material effect on our results of operations. Changes in Customer Preferences for Casual Dining Styles Could Adversely Affect Financial Performance - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Changing customer preferences, tastes and dietary habits can adversely impact our business and financial performance. We offer a large variety of entrees, side dishes and desserts and its continued success depends, in part, on the popularity of our cuisine and casual style of dining. A change from this dining style may have an adverse effect on our business. Labor Shortages, an Increase in Labor Costs, or an Inability to Attract Employees Could Harm Our Business - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Our employees and our ability to deliver an enjoyable dining experience to our customers are essential to our operations. If we are unable to attract and retain enough qualified restaurant and/or package liquor store personnel at a reasonable cost, and if they do not deliver an enjoyable dining experience, our results may be negatively affected. Additionally, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages, which could result in higher labor costs. Increases in Employee Minimum Wages by the Federal or State Government Could Adversely Affect Business - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Certain of our Company employees are paid wages that relate to federal and state minimum wage rates. Increases in the minimum wage rates, such as annual cost of living increases in the State of Florida minimum wage, may 21 significantly increase our labor costs. In addition, since our business is labor-intensive, shortages in the labor pool or other inflationary pressure could increase labor costs, which could harm our financial performance. Fluctuations in Commodity Prices and Availability of Commodities Including Pork, Beef, Fish, Poultry and Dairy Could Affect Our Business - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- A significant component of our costs are related to food commodities including pork, beef, fish, poultry and dairy products. If there is a substantial increase in prices for these products and we are unable to offset the increases with changes in menu prices, our results could be negatively affected. Due to Our Geographic Locations, Restaurants are Subject to Climate Conditions that Could Affect Operations - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- All but one (1) of our restaurants and package liquor stores are located in South Florida, with the remaining restaurant located in Central Florida. During hurricane season, (June 1st through November 30th each year), our restaurants and/or package liquor stores may face harsh weather associated with hurricanes and tropical storms. These harsh weather conditions may make it more difficult for customers to visit our restaurants and package liquor stores, or may necessitate the closure of the stores and restaurants for a period of time. If customers are unable to visit our restaurants and/or package liquor stores, our sales and operating results may be negatively affected. Due to Our Geographic Locations, We May Not be Able to Acquire Windstorm Insurance Coverage or Adequate Windstorm Insurance Coverage at a Reasonable Rate - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Due to the anticipated active hurricane seasons in South Florida in the future, we may not be able to acquire windstorm insurance coverage for our restaurant and package liquor store locations on a year-to-year basis or may not be able to get adequate windstorm insurance coverage at reasonable rates. If we are unable to obtain windstorm insurance coverage or adequate windstorm insurance coverage at reasonable rates, then we will be self-insured for all or a part of the exposure for damages caused by a hurricane impacting South Florida, which may have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition and/or results of operations. Inability to Attract and Retain Customers Could Affect Results of Operations - ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- We take pride in our ability to attract and retain customers, however, if we do not deliver an enjoyable dining experience for our customers, they may not return and results may be negatively affected. 22 We May Face Liability Under Dram Shop Statutes - ---------------------------------------------- Our sale of alcoholic beverages subjects us to "dram shop" statutes. These statutes allow an injured person to recover damages from an establishment that served alcoholic beverages to an intoxicated person. If we receive a judgment substantially in excess of our insurance coverage, or if we fail to maintain our insurance coverage, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. We currently have no "dram shop" claims. See "Item 1. Business--Government Regulation" for a discussion of the regulations with which we must comply. We May Face Instances of Food Borne Illness - ------------------------------------------- Recently, several nationally known restaurants experienced outbreaks of food poisoning believed to be caused by E.coli contained in fresh spinach, which is not included in any of the items on our menu. In years past, Asian and European countries experienced outbreaks of avian flu. Incidents of "mad cow" disease have occurred in Canadian and U.S. cattle herds. These problems, other food-borne illnesses (such as, hepatitis A, trichinosis or salmonella) and injuries caused by food tampering have in the past, and could in the future, adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients and cause changes in consumer preference. As a result, our sales could decline. Instances of food-borne illnesses, real or perceived, whether at our restaurants or those of our competitors, could also result in negative publicity about us or the restaurant industry, which could adversely affect sales. If we react to negative publicity by changing our menu or other key aspects of the dining experience we offer, we may lose customers who do not accept those changes and may not be able to attract enough new customers to produce the revenue needed to make our restaurants profitable. If our guests become ill from food-borne illnesses, we could be forced to temporarily close some restaurants. A decrease in guest traffic as a result of health concerns or negative publicity, or as a result of a change in our menu or dining experience or a temporary closure of any of our restaurants, could materially harm our business. We Face Competition in the Restaurant and Liquor Industries, and If We are Unable to Compete Effectively, Our Business and Financial Performance will be Adversely Affected - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The restaurant and liquor industries are intensely competitive and are affected by changes in customer tastes, dietary habits and by economic and demographic trends. New menu items, concepts and trends are constantly emerging. We compete on quality, variety, value, service, price and location. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. 23 