Item 1A Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. These risks should be considered carefully with the uncertainties described below, and all other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before deciding whether to purchase our common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to management or that management currently deems immaterial may also become important factors that may harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks and uncertainties and you may lose part or all of your investment. 18 Table of Contents Certain statements in this report contain forward-looking information. In general, forward-looking statements include estimates of future revenues, cash flow, capital expenditures, or other financial items and assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Forward-looking statements reflect management’s current expectations regarding future events and use words such as “anticipate”, “believe”, “expect”, “may”, “will” and other similar terminology. These statements speak only as of the date they were made and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Several factors, many beyond our control, could cause actual results to differ materially from management’s expectations. Continued High Unemployment, Instability in the Housing Market, High Energy and Food Costs and General Economic Uncertainty could result in a Decline in Consumer Discretionary Spending that would Materially Affect our Financial Performance. Dining out is a discretionary expense. Factors that affect consumer behavior and spending for restaurant dining, such as changes in general economic conditions (including national, regional and local economic conditions), discretionary spending patterns, employment levels, instability in the housing market, and high energy and food costs may have a material adverse effect on us. Leading economic indicators, such as unemployment and consumer confidence, remain volatile and may not show meaningful improvement in our fiscal year 2013. If economic conditions worsen, our financial performance could be adversely affected. Intense Competition In The Restaurant And Package Liquor Store Industry Could Prevent Us From Increasing Or Sustaining Our Revenues And Profitability. The restaurant and package liquor store industry is intensely competitive with respect to food quality, price-value relationships, ambiance, service and location and many restaurants and package liquor stores compete with us at each of our locations. There are a number of well-established competitors with substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than ours, and many of our competitors are well established in the markets where we have restaurants and/or stores where we intend to locate restaurants. Additionally, other companies may develop restaurants and/or stores that operate with similar concepts. Any inability to successfully compete with the other restaurants and/or stores in our markets will prevent us from increasing or sustaining our revenues and profitability and will result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may also need to modify or refine elements of our business to evolve our concepts in order to compete with popular new restaurant formats or store concepts that may develop in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in implementing these modifications or that these modifications will not reduce our profitability. 19 Table of Contents New Information Or Attitudes Regarding Diet And Health Could Result In Changes In Regulations And Consumer Eating Habits That Could Adversely Affect Our Revenues. Regulations and consumer eating habits may change as a result of new information or attitudes regarding diet and health. These changes may include regulations that impact the ingredients and nutritional content of our menu items at our restaurants. For example, a number of states, counties and cities are enacting menu labeling laws requiring multi-unit restaurant operators to make certain nutritional information available to guests or restrict the sales of certain types of ingredients in restaurants. The success of our restaurant operations is dependent, in part, upon our ability to effectively respond to changes in consumer health and disclosure regulations and to adapt our menu offerings to trends in eating habits. If consumer health regulations or consumer eating habits change significantly, we may be required to modify or delete certain menu items. To the extent we are unable to respond with appropriate changes to our menu offerings, it could materially affect customer demand and have an adverse impact on our revenues. Adverse Public Or Medical Opinions About Health Effects Of Consuming Our Products As Well As Negative Publicity About Us, Our Restaurants And/Or Package Liquor Stores And About Others Across The Food And Liquor Industry Supply Chain, Whether Or Not Accurate, Could Negatively Affect Us. Restaurant operators have received more scrutiny from regulators and health organizations in recent years relating to the health effects of consuming certain products. An unfavorable report on the products we use in our menu, the size of our portions or the consumption of those items could influence the demand for our offerings. In addition, adverse publicity or news reports, whether or not accurate, of food quality issues, illness, injury, health concerns, or operating issues stemming from a single restaurant, a limited number of restaurants, restaurants operated by others or generally in the food supply chain could be damaging to the restaurant industry overall and specifically harm our reputation. A decrease in guest traffic as a result of these types of health concerns or negative publicity could materially harm our results of operations. Our Inability To Successfully And Sufficiently Raise Menu Prices Could Result In A Decline In Profitability. We utilize menu price increases to help offset cost increases, including increased cost for commodities, minimum wages, employee benefits, insurance arrangements, construction, utilities and other key operating costs. If our selection and amount of menu price increases are not accepted by consumers and reduce guest traffic, or are insufficient to counter increased costs, our financial results could be negatively affected. However, we have not experienced any adverse affects from our recent menu price increases. 20 Table of Contents Increases in food costs, raw materials and other supplies and services may have a material adverse impact on our financial performance. Our operating margins depend on, among other things, our ability to anticipate and react to changes in the costs of key operating resources, including food and beverage costs, utilities and other supplies and services. We attempt to negotiate short-term and long-term agreements for our principal commodity, supply and equipment requirements, depending on market conditions and expected demand. However, we are currently unable to contract for extended periods of time for certain of our commodities. Consequently, these commodities can be subject to unforeseen supply and cost fluctuations due to factors such as changes in demand patterns, increases in the cost of key inputs, fuel costs, weather and other market conditions outside of our control. Dairy costs can also fluctuate due to government regulation. Our suppliers also may be affected by higher costs to produce and transport commodities used in our restaurants, higher minimum wage and benefit costs, and other expenses that they pass through to their customers, which could result in higher costs for goods and services supplied to us. Our Business Could Be Materially Adversely Affected If We Are Unable To Expand In A Timely And Profitable Manner To grow successfully, we must open new restaurants on a timely and profitable basis. We have experienced delays in restaurant openings from time to time and may experience delays in the future. During our fiscal year 2012 we have one new restaurant under development which opened for business on December 27, 2012. During our fiscal year 2011, we did not open any new restaurants, nor did we have any new restaurants under development. Our ability to open and profitably operate restaurants and/or package liquor stores is subject to various risks such as identification and availability of suitable and economically viable locations, the negotiation of acceptable leases or the purchase terms of existing locations, the availability of limited partner investors or other means to raise capital, the need to obtain all required governmental permits (including zoning approvals) on a timely basis, the need to comply with other regulatory requirements, the availability of necessary contractors and subcontractors, the availability of construction materials and labor, the ability to meet construction schedules and budgets, variations in labor and building material costs, changes in weather or other acts of God that could result in construction delays and adversely affect the results of one or more restaurants and/or package liquor stores for an indeterminate amount of time. If we are unable to successfully manage these risks, we will face increased costs and lower than anticipated revenues which will materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. 21 Table of Contents Changes In Customer Preferences For Casual Dining Styles Could Adversely Affect Financial Performance Changing customer preferences, tastes and dietary habits can adversely impact our business and financial performance. We offer a large variety of entrees, side dishes and desserts and our continued success depends, in part, on the popularity of our cuisine and casual style of dining. A change from this dining style may have an adverse effect on our business. Our Success Depends Substantially on the Value of our Brands and our Reputation for Offering Guests a Satisfactory Experience. We believe we have built a reasonably strong reputation for the predictability of our menu items, as part of the experience that guests enjoy in our restaurants. We believe we must protect and grow the value of our brands to continue to be successful in the future. Any incident that erodes consumer trust in or affinity for our brands could be harmful to us. If consumers perceive or experience a reduction in food quality, service or ambiance, or in any way believe we failed to deliver a consistently positive experience, our brand value could suffer. Labor Shortages, An Increase In Labor Costs, Or Inability To Attract Employees Could Harm Our Business Our employees are essential to our operations and our ability to deliver an enjoyable dining experience to our customers. If we are unable to attract and retain enough qualified restaurant and/or package liquor store personnel at a reasonable cost, and if they do not deliver an enjoyable dining experience, our results may be negatively affected. Additionally, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages, which could result in higher labor costs. Increases In Employee Minimum Wages By The Federal Or State Government Could Adversely Affect Business Certain of our Company employees are paid wages that relate to federal and state minimum wage rates. Increases in the minimum wage rates, such as annual cost of living increases in the State of Florida minimum wage, may significantly increase our labor costs. In addition, since our business is labor-intensive, shortages in the labor pool or other inflationary pressure could increase labor costs, which could harm our financial performance. Due To Our Geographic Locations, Restaurants Are Subject To Climate Conditions That Could Affect Operations All but one (1) of our restaurants and package liquor stores are located in South Florida, with the remaining restaurant located in Central Florida. During hurricane season, (June 1st through November 30th each year), our restaurants and/or package liquor stores may face harsh weather associated with hurricanes and tropical storms. These harsh weather conditions may make it more difficult for customers to visit our restaurants and package liquor stores, or may necessitate the closure of the stores and restaurants for a period of time. If customers are unable to visit our restaurants and/or package liquor stores, our sales and operating results may be negatively affected. 22 Table of Contents Due To Our Geographic Locations, We May Not Be Able To Acquire Windstorm Insurance Coverage Or Adequate Windstorm Insurance Coverage At A Reasonable Rate Due to the anticipated active hurricane seasons in South Florida in the future, we may not be able to acquire windstorm insurance coverage for our restaurant and package liquor store locations on a year-to-year basis or may not be able to get adequate windstorm insurance coverage at reasonable rates. If we are unable to obtain windstorm insurance coverage or adequate windstorm insurance coverage at reasonable rates, then we will be self-insured for all or a part of the exposure for damages caused by a hurricane impacting South Florida, which may have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition and/or results of operations. Inability To Attract And Retain Customers Could Affect Results Of Operations We take pride in our ability to attract and retain customers, however, if we do not deliver an enjoyable dining experience for our customers, they may not return and results may be negatively affected. Failure To Comply With Governmental Regulations Could Harm Our Business And Our Reputation. We are subject to regulation by federal agencies and regulation by state and local health, sanitation, building, zoning, safety, fire and other departments relating to the development and operation of restaurants. These regulations include matters relating to: ● the environment; ● building construction; ● zoning requirements; ● the preparation and sale of food and alcoholic beverages; and ● employment. Our facilities are licensed and subject to regulation under state and local fire, health and safety codes. The construction and remodeling of restaurants will be subject to compliance with applicable zoning, land use and environmental regulations. We may not be able to obtain necessary licenses or other approvals on a cost-effective and timely basis in order to construct and develop restaurants in the future. Various federal and state labor laws govern our operations and our relationship with our employees, minimum wage, overtime, working conditions, fringe benefit and work authorization requirements. In particular, we are subject to federal immigration regulations. Given the location of many of our restaurants, even if we operate those restaurants in strict compliance with federal immigration requirements, our employees may not all meet federal work authorization or residency requirements, which could lead to disruptions in our work force. 23 Table of Contents Our business can be adversely affected by negative publicity resulting from, among other things, complaints or litigation alleging poor food quality, food-borne illness or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one or a limited number of restaurants. Unfavorable publicity could negatively impact public perception of our brands. We are required to comply with the alcohol licensing requirements of the federal government, states and municipalities where our restaurants are located. Alcoholic beverage control regulations require applications to state authorities and, in certain locations, county and municipal authorities for a license and permit to sell alcoholic beverages. Typically, licenses must be renewed annually and may be revoked or suspended for cause at any time. Alcoholic beverage control regulations relate to numerous aspects of the daily operations of the restaurants, including minimum age of guests and employees, hours of operation, advertising, wholesale purchasing, inventory control and handling and storage and dispensing of alcoholic beverages. If we fail to comply with federal, state or local regulations, our licenses may be revoked and we may be forced to terminate the sale of alcoholic beverages at one or more of our restaurants. The Federal Americans with Disabilities Act (the “ADA”) prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in public accommodations and employment. We are required to comply with the ADA and regulations relating to accommodating the needs of disabled persons in connection with the construction of new facilities and with significant renovations of existing facilities. Failure to comply with these and other regulations could negatively impact our reputation and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We May Face Liability Under Dram Shop Statutes Our sale of alcoholic beverages subjects us to “dram shop” statutes. These statutes allow an injured person to recover damages from an establishment that served alcoholic beverages to an intoxicated person. If we receive a judgment substantially in excess of our insurance coverage, or if we fail to maintain our insurance coverage, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. We currently have two “dram shop” claims, which we are defending vigorously. See “Item 1. Business—Government Regulation” for a discussion of the regulations with which we must comply. 24 Table of Contents We May Face Instances Of Food Borne Illness In years past, several nationally known restaurants experienced outbreaks of food poisoning believed to be caused by E.coli contained in fresh spinach, which is not included in any of the items on our menu, Asian and European countries experienced outbreaks of avian flu and incidents of “mad cow” disease have occurred in Canadian and U.S. cattle herds. These problems, other food-borne illnesses (such as, hepatitis A, trichinosis or salmonella) and injuries caused by food tampering have in the past, and could in the future, adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients and cause changes in consumer preference. As a result, our sales could decline. Instances of food-borne illnesses, real or perceived, whether at our restaurants or those of our competitors, could also result in negative publicity about us or the restaurant industry, which could adversely affect sales. If we react to negative publicity by changing our menu or other key aspects of the dining experience we offer, we may lose customers who do not accept those changes, and may not be able to attract enough new customers to produce the revenue needed to make our restaurants profitable. If our guests become ill from food-borne illnesses, we could be forced to temporarily close some restaurants. A decrease in guest traffic as a result of health concerns or negative publicity, or as a result of a change in our menu or dining experience or a temporary closure of any of our restaurants, could materially harm our business. If We Are Unable To Protect Our Customers’ Credit Card Data, We Could Be Exposed To Data Loss, Litigation, And Liability, And Our Reputation Could Be Significantly Harmed. In connection with credit card sales, we transmit confidential credit card information by way of secure private retail networks. Although we use private networks, third parties may have the technology or know-how to breach the security of the customer information transmitted in connection with credit card sales, and our security measures and those of our technology vendors may not effectively prohibit others from obtaining improper access to this information. If a person is able to circumvent these security measures, he or she could destroy or steal valuable information or disrupt our operations. Any security breach could expose us to risks of data loss, litigation, and liability, and could seriously disrupt our operations and any resulting negative publicity could significantly harm our reputation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As a Smaller Reporting Company as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act and in Item 10(f)(1) of Regulation S-K, we are electing scaled disclosure reporting obligations and therefore are not required to provide the information requested by this Item 1B. 