D. Risk factors. The following is a discussion of some of the risk factors relating specifically to the Corporation and its business. A downturn in the demand for air travel could adversely impact the demand for loyalty currency services The Corporation and the majority of its loyalty program partners operate in the travel industry, specifically the air travel industry. The ability of the Corporation's loyalty program partners to continue to drive commercial activity to their businesses is integral to generating loyalty miles and points for their respective programs. Airline capacity, fare levels, and overall demand for air travel can all impact the demand for the loyalty currency services offered by the Corporation. For example, demand for air travel began to slow in the last quarter of 2008 and global economic conditions in 2009 substantially reduced airline industry revenues and overall capacity in 2009. The demand for loyalty currency services offered by the Corporation was adversely impacted by the decline in the air travel industry during this time. In the first half of 2009, the Corporation saw an overall softness in miles and points transacted due to economic pressures on the air travel industry which adversely impacted the Corporation's operations. The Corporation is unable to predict when a downturn in the demand for air travel will arise. During an economic downturn, Points' partners and potential partners in the air travel industry often cancel, reduce, defer or delay entering into new engagements. This may cause Points' pricing, revenue and profitability to be negatively impacted. - 5 - Our business depends on the continued popularity and utility of consumer loyalty programs The Corporation generates the substantial majority of its revenue from end customers who are transacting loyalty miles/points through the Corporation's online solutions. While the popularity of loyalty programs has grown significantly in the last decade, there is no assurance that the popularity of these programs will continue to grow or maintain current levels of popularity. In addition, a change in the value proposition currently offered by these programs could significantly change consumer demand for loyalty programs. We rely on contractual relationships with loyalty program partners that are subject to termination and renegotiation There can be no assurance that the Corporation will be successful in maintaining its existing contractual relationships with its loyalty program partners. The Corporation's loyalty program partners have in the past, and may in the future, negotiate arrangements that are short-term and subject to renewal, non-exclusive and/or terminable at the option of the partner on relatively short notice without penalty. Loyalty program partners that have not provided a long-term commitment or guarantee of exclusivity, or that have the ability to terminate on short notice, may exercise this flexibility to end their relationship with the Corporation or to negotiate from time to time more preferential financial and other terms than originally contracted for. The Corporation cannot ensure that such negotiations will not have a material adverse affect on the financial condition or results of operations of the Corporation. We could face significant liquidity risk if we fail to meet contractual performance commitments The Corporation, in some of its agreements with loyalty program partners, has made commitments as to the number of points/miles it will process or revenues it will generate for its partners over the term of its agreements. As of December 31, 2009, these commitments totaled $125 million in the aggregate. The commitments are measured annually. There is a risk that these commitments may not be met, resulting in the Corporation being required to purchase the shortfall in points/miles to meet annual contracted levels and take these into inventory. The Corporation's ability to use or sell any purchased points/miles is limited by terms in its contracts. As a result, there is a risk that the Corporation may have difficulty in selling or making use of this inventory which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, operating results and financial condition. There is also a risk that the Corporation may have insufficient resources to purchase any shortfall and that the Corporation may need to obtain financing to meet such commitments. There is a risk that such financing may not be available to the Corporation. The failure to obtain such financing could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation's business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. Loyalty program partners may have, or develop, in-house business solutions departments that could take responsibility for services currently provided by the Corporation Many of the Corporation's existing and potential partners do or could have greater technical and financial resources than the Corporation. Consequently, loyalty program partners that have not provided a long-term commitment or guarantee of exclusivity could move business solutions currently provided by the Corporation in-house. In 2009, Delta Air Lines elected to leverage internal capabilities and repatriate the retail mileage sale and transfer programs that were previously operated by the Corporation. Other loyalty program partners could leverage similar internal capabilities, which could have an adverse material impact on the Corporations business, operating results, and prospects. Our results are affected by the exchange rate between the US and Canadian dollar The Corporation reports its financial results in the US dollar. The US dollar is subject to fluctuations in the exchange rate of currencies of the countries in which the Corporation operates, including Canadian dollars, British pounds sterling and Euros. The most significant foreign exchange impact on the Corporation's financial results is the translation of foreign currency based transactions and expenses into the US dollar. Accordingly, fluctuations in the exchange rates of these currencies could have a material adverse affect on the Corporation's reported results. - 6 - For the year ended December 31, 2009, 85% of the Corporation's revenues were transacted in the US dollar (2008 – 97%), 11% (2008 – 3%) were transacted in Euros with the remainder transacted in Canadian dollars, British pounds sterling and the Swedish kroner. A significant change in the Euro/US dollar foreign exchange rate could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation's financial results. The translation of the Corporation's expenses is, and will continue to be, sensitive to changes in the Canadian / US foreign exchange rate. A change to the FX Rate has an impact on certain expenses of the Corporation, including employment costs, professional fees, and office expenses. For the year ended December 31, 2009, approximately 16% (2008 – 18%) of the Corporation's expenses (including non-cash interest expense but excluding provision for future income taxes) are in CAD$ and 9% (2008 – nil) of the Corporations expenses are in Euros, with the remaining expenses primarily inUS$. In an effort to minimize its risk to fluctuations in the Canadian / US exchange rate and control costs, the Corporation entered into foreign currency forward contracts in 2010 to hedge the exchange rate risk on the majority of its expected requirement for Canadian dollar expenses. Our revenue and profitability is affected by our ability to control credit card fraud A chargeback is any credit card transaction undertaken by an end-customer that is later reversed or repudiated. The Corporation is subject to exposure in regard to chargebacks, a high incidence of which could result in penalties or eventual shut down of the payment method. While Points has fraud control measures in place to minimize exposure, on-line credit card fraud techniques employed by fraudsters are consistently evolving. An increase in the level of chargeback activity could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's operating results and financial condition. Financial performance is substantially dependent on retaining key technical and management personnel The continued success of the Corporation is highly dependent on the performance of the senior members our management team, including the efforts of the Chief Executive Officer, President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Technology Officer and other senior members of the management team. The future performance of the Corporation will be impacted by any disruptions in the continued service of executives and other officers. Competition for senior management in the industry is always strong. The loss of any member of our senior management or other key personnel may have an adverse material effect on the business, prospects and results of operations of the corporation. Our financial performance could suffer if we fail to anticipate and develop new services and enhance existing services in order to keep pace with rapid changes in technology The on-line technology services industry is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving partner and customer preferences and new product and service introductions. The success of the Corporation will depend on its ability to anticipate these advances and develop new products and services to meet changing partner and customer needs. Failure to anticipate or respond to these advances in a timely manner could negatively impact the ongoing operations of the Corporation. In addition, there is no guarantee that new products and services developed by the Corporation will be successful in a continually evolving on-line marketplace. Our operations are dependent on the performance of our technology infrastructure and the Internet The end-consumers of the Corporation's software depend on internet service providers, online service providers and the Corporation's infrastructure for access to the software solutions the Corporation provides to its loyalty program partners. These services are subject to service outages and delays due to system failures, stability or interruption, which result in lost transactions and revenues. In addition, the Corporation may not be able to meet a satisfactory level of service as contracted with its partners, and may cause a breach of the Corporation's contractual commitments, which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. - 7 - The promotion and strengthening of our brand is critical to our business The Corporation believes that continuing to strengthen its brand is an important factor in achieving widespread acceptance of the Corporation's services, and will require an increased focus on active marketing efforts. The Corporation will likely need to spend increasing amounts of money on, and devote greater resources to, advertising, marketing, and other efforts to create and maintain brand loyalty among users and potential users. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenues, and even if they do, any increased revenues may not offset the expenses incurred in building the Corporation's brand. If the Corporation fails to promote and maintain the Corporation's brand, or if the Corporation incurs substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain the Corporation's brand, the Corporation's business could be harmed. Like other innovative online businesses we face the risk of patent and other intellectual property litigation The on-line technology services industry is highly competitive and experiencing rapid change. New products, services and web content are continually introduced on-line which can increase the risk of intellectual property infringement. Third parties may assert claims against the Corporation alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. As the popularity of the products and services offered by Corporation grows, the risk of such claims increases. An adverse determination in any litigation of this type could result in the Corporation being required to pay significant damages, require the Corporation to design around a third party's patent or to license alternative technology from another party. In addition, litigation may be time-consuming and expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of time and resources. Any claims by third parties may also result in limitations on the ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. Our operations are dependant on the proper functioning of computer software Defects in our owned or licensed software products, delays in delivery, and failures or mistakes in our processing of electronic transactions could materially harm our business, including our customer relationships and operating results. Our operations are dependent on our ability to protect our computer equipment and the information stored in our data centres against damage that may be caused by fire, power loss, telecommunication failures, unauthorized intrusion, computer viruses and disabling devices, and other similar events. A failure in our production systems or a disaster or other event affecting our production systems or business operations could result in a disruption or loss of availability of our products or services to our customers. Any disruption to our services could impair our reputation and cause us to lose customers or revenue, or face litigation, necessitate customer service or repair work that would involve substantial costs and distract management from operating our business. Our business could be negatively impacted by changes to domestic and international tax laws, rules and regulations The Corporation operates in multiple jurisdictions and has relationships with several foreign partners. The application of various domestic and international sales, use, occupancy, value-added and other tax laws, rules and regulations to the Corporation's products and services is subject to interpretation by the applicable taxing authorities. Many of the fundamental statutes and regulations that impose these taxes were established before the growth of the internet and Ecommerce. If the tax laws, rules and regulations are amended, if new adverse laws, rules or regulations are adopted, or if current laws are interpreted adversely to the Corporation's interests, particularly with respect to occupancy or value-added taxes, the results could increase the Corporation's tax payments (prospectively or retrospectively) and/or subject it to penalties and decrease the demand for the Corporation's products and services if the Corporation passes on such costs to the consumer. As a result, these changes could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, operating results and financia lcondition. In addition, a key component of the Corporation's growth plan is to pursue additional partnerships with foreign loyalty programs in new jurisdictions. Tax rules and regulations in these new jurisdictions could be adversely interpreted to the Corporation's interest, which could prevent the Corporation from signing new partnerships with foreign loyalty programs. - 8 - Our international growth plans may not be successful A key component of the Corporation's growth plan is to pursue additional partnerships with foreign loyalty programs in new jurisdictions, including those that operate in developing and emerging markets. Rules and regulations related to tax, transfer pricing, credit card processing, protection of intellectual property rights, or unexpected legal or regulatory requirements in foreign jurisdictions could limit or impair the Corporation's ability to operate in these jurisdictions as it currently does in North America and certain jurisdictions in Europe. Furthermore, unfavourable political or economic conditions or lower consumer demand for the products and services offered by the Corporation and for loyalty programs in general could adversely impact the Corporation's ability to operate in new markets. While the Corporation plans to continue to expand its business worldwide and increase international sales, the can be no assurance the Corporations plan for international expansion will be successful or have a positive effect on its operating results and financial condition. 