Item 1A. Risk Factors. Factors That May Affect Future Results (Cautionary Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) Certain written and oral statements made or incorporated by reference from time to time by us or our representatives in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, other filings or reports filed with the SEC, press releases, conferences, or otherwise, are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (set forth in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”) and Section 21E of the Exchange Act). In particular, statements relating to our liquidity and capital resources, prospective asset dispositions, portfolio performance and results of operations contain forward-looking statements. Furthermore, all of the statements regarding future financial performance (including anticipated funds from operations (“FFO”), market conditions and demographics) are forward-looking statements. We are including this cautionary statement to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for any such forward-looking statements. We caution investors that any forward-looking statements presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or that management may make orally or in writing from time to time, are based on management’s beliefs and assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. When used, the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “might,” “plan,” “estimate,” “project,” “should,” “will,” “result” and similar expressions that do not relate solely to historical matters are intended to 7Table of Contentsidentify forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions and may be affected by known and unknown risks, trends, uncertainties and factors that are beyond our control. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected. We expressly disclaim any responsibility to update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Accordingly, investors should use caution in relying on past forward-looking statements, which were based on results and trends at the time they were made, to anticipate future results or trends. Some of the risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results, performance, liquidity or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: • Difficulties in disposing of non-core assets, as discussed throughout this report; • Our failure to obtain additional capital or extend or refinance debt maturities; • Further decreases in the market value of our properties; • Difficulties resulting from any defaults by our special purpose property-owning subsidiaries under loans that are recourse or non-recourse to our Operating Partnership; • The continued disruption of credit markets or a global economic slowdown; • Adverse economic or real estate developments in Southern California, particularly in the LACBD or Orange County region; • Our dependence on significant tenants, many of which are in industries that have been severely impacted by the current credit crisis and global economic slowdown; • Defaults on or non-renewal of leases by tenants; • Decreased rental rates, increased lease concessions or failure to achieve occupancy targets; • Potential loss of key personnel (most importantly members of senior management); • Our failure to reduce our significant level of indebtedness; • Future terrorist attacks in the U.S.; • Increased interest rates and operating costs; • Our failure to maintain our status as a REIT; • Difficulty in operating the properties owned through our joint venture; • Environmental uncertainties and risks related to earthquakes and other natural disasters; and • Changes in real estate and zoning laws and increases in real property tax rates. Set forth below are some (but not all) of the factors that could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks 8Table of Contentsand uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. We believe the following risks are material to our stockholders. You should carefully consider the following factors in evaluating our company, our properties and our business. The occurrence of any of the following risks might cause our stockholders to lose all or part of their investment. For purposes of this section, the term “stockholders” means the holders of shares of our common stock and of our 7.625% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock (the “Series A Preferred Stock”). Certain of our special purpose property-owning subsidiaries are currently in default under non-recourse mortgage loans, and other special purpose property-owning subsidiaries may default under their respective loans in the future. Five of our special purpose property-owning subsidiaries were in default as of December 31, 2010 under non-recourse mortgage loans secured by the following properties due to each such subsidiaries’ failure to make full monthly debt service payments: Stadium Towers Plaza, 2600 Michelson, 550 South Hope, 500 Orange Tower and City Tower. On February 16, 2011 and February 24, 2011, the special purpose property-owning subsidiaries that own 700 North Central and 801 North Brand, respectively, sent notices of imminent default to the master servicers related to the mortgage loans secured by these properties. In addition, on March 7, 2011 our special purpose property-owning subsidiary that owns Two California Plaza defaulted on the mortgage loan secured by the property. The continuing default by our special purpose property-owning subsidiaries under those non-recourse loans gives the special servicers the right to accelerate the payment on the loans and the right to foreclose on the property underlying such loan. There are several potential outcomes on each of these properties, including foreclosure, a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure, a cooperative short sale, or a negotiated modification to the terms of the loan. We are in various stages of negotiations with the special servicers on each of these assets, with the goal of reaching a cooperative resolution for each asset quickly. In most cases, we have reached an agreement that releases us from nearly all potential claims (including most recourse triggers) and establishes a definitive date by which we will exit the asset. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to resolve these matters in a short period of time. There also can be no assurance that we will achieve a favorable outcome with respect to City Tower, 700 North Central, 801 North Brand or Two California Plaza. During 2011, it is likely that additional special purpose property-owning subsidiaries will default and/or send notices of imminent default on non-recourse loans where the relevant project is or will be suffering from cash shortfalls on operating expenses and/or debt service obligations. Our senior management’s focus on asset dispositions, loan defaults, cash generation and general strategic matters may adversely affect us. As discussed throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have announced our intent to dispose of several non-core assets to preserve and generate cash. We are also concurrently exploring various strategic alternatives and capital raising opportunities to generate cash. This focus could adversely affect our operations in a number of ways, including the risks that such activities could, among other things: • Disrupt operations and distract management; • Fail to successfully achieve the expected benefits; • Be time consuming and expensive and result in the loss of business opportunities; • Subject us to litigation; • Result in increased difficulties due to uncertainties regarding our future operations; and 9Table of Contents• Cause the trading price of our common stock to further decrease and/or continue to be highly volatile. Our debt covenants restrict our ability to enter into certain transactions if or when we decide to do so. Certain of our material debt obligations require us to comply with financial and other covenants, including, but not limited to, net worth and liquidity covenants, due on sale clauses, change in control restrictions, New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) listing requirements and other financial requirements. Some or all of these covenants could prevent or delay our ability to enter into certain transactions that may be in the best interests of our stockholders, including our ability to: • Sell identified properties or portfolios of properties; • Engage in a transaction that results in a change in control of the Company; • Merge with or into another company; or • Sell all or substantially all of our assets. Specifically, some or all of these covenants may delay or prevent a change in control of the Company, even if a change in control might be beneficial to our stockholders, deter tender offers that may be beneficial to our stockholders, or limit stockholders’ opportunity to receive a potential premium for their shares. Absent any waiver of, or modification to, such covenants or the refinancing of the indebtedness containing such covenants, our ability to structure and consummate a transaction is restricted by our need to remain in compliance with such covenants. We may not be able to extend, refinance or repay our substantial indebtedness, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and common stock price. We have a substantial amount of debt that we may not be able to extend, refinance or repay. As of December 31, 2010, we have $204.1 million of debt maturing in 2011 and $400.0 million of debt maturing in 2012 (excluding Properties in Default). Due to (1) significantly reduced asset values throughout our portfolio, (2) our substantial debt level encumbering all of our assets, (3) limited access to commercial real estate mortgages in the current market and (4) material changes in lending parameters, including loan-to-value standards, we will face significant challenges refinancing our existing debt on acceptable terms or at all. Our substantial indebtedness also requires us to use a material portion of our cash flow to service principal and interest on our debt, which limits the cash flow available for other business expenses or opportunities. Also, our agreements with Robert F. Maguire III and other contributors obligate us to use commercially reasonable efforts to maintain certain debt levels that may limit our flexibility to refinance the debt encumbering our properties. We may not have the cash necessary to repay our debt as it matures. Failure to refinance or extend our debt as it comes due, or a failure to satisfy the conditions and requirements of such debt, could result in an event of default that could potentially allow lenders to accelerate such debt. If our debt is accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay such debt in full, and our available cash flow may not be adequate to maintain our current operations. If we are unable to refinance or repay our debt as it comes due (particularly in the case of loans with recourse to our Operating Partnership) and maintain sufficient cash flow, our business, financial condition, results of operations and common stock price will be materially and adversely affected, and we may be required to file for bankruptcy protection. Furthermore, even if we are able to obtain extensions on our existing debt, such extensions may include operational and financial covenants significantly more restrictive than our current debt covenants. Any such extensions will also require us to pay certain fees to, and expenses of, our lenders. Any such fees and cash flow restrictions will affect our ability to fund our ongoing operations from our operating cash flows, as discussed in this report. 10Table of ContentsOur Operating Partnership’s contingent obligations may become payable in the event of a default by our special purpose property-owning subsidiaries under their debt obligations. In connection with the issuance of otherwise non-recourse loans obtained by certain special purpose property-owning subsidiaries of our Operating Partnership, our Operating Partnership provided various forms of partial guaranties to the lenders originating those loans. These guaranties are contingent obligations that could give rise to defined amounts of recourse against our Operating Partnership, should the special purpose property-owning subsidiaries be unable to satisfy certain obligations under otherwise non-recourse mortgage loans. Our Operating Partnership’s partial guaranties are described in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Indebtedness—Operating Partnership Contingent Obligations.” Certain of these partial guarantees may be triggered if the relevant special purpose property-owning subsidiary defaults under the related debt obligation. Any payments made by our Operating Partnership under these partial guaranties could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operation and common stock price. There is also no assurance that our Operating Partnership will be able to make such payments as they become due. The recourse obligations also impact our ability to dispose of the underlying assets on favorable terms or at all. In some cases we may be required to continue to own properties that operate at a loss and utilize a portion of our limited unrestricted cash because we do not have the means to fund the recourse obligations in the case of a foreclosure of the property. Even if we are able to cooperatively dispose of these properties, the lender(s) will likely require cash payments to release us from the recourse obligations, impacting our liquidity position. Our Operating Partnership is subject to obligations under certain “non-recourse carve out” guarantees that may be triggered in the future. All of our properties are encumbered by traditional non-recourse debt obligations. In connection with these loans, our Operating Partnership entered into “non-recourse carve out” guarantees, which provide for these otherwise non-recourse loans to become partially or fully recourse against our Operating Partnership if certain triggering events occur. Although these events differ from loan to loan, some of the common events include: • The special purpose property-owning subsidiary’s or Operating Partnership’s filing a voluntary petition for bankruptcy; • The special purpose property-owning subsidiary’s failure to maintain its status as a special purpose entity; • Subject to certain conditions, the special purpose property-owning subsidiary’s failure to obtain the lender’s written consent prior to any subordinate financing or other voluntary lien encumbering the associated property; and • Subject to certain conditions, the special purpose property-owning subsidiary’s failure to obtain the lender’s written consent prior to a transfer or conveyance of the associated property, including, in many cases, indirect transfers in connection with a change in control of our Operating Partnership or the Company. In addition, other items that are customarily recourse to a non-recourse carve out guarantor include, but are not limited to, the payment of real property taxes, the breach of representations related to environmental issues or hazardous substances, physical waste of the property, liens which are senior to the mortgage loan and outstanding security deposits. In the event that any of these triggering events occur and the loans become partially or fully recourse against our Operating Partnership, our business, financial condition, results of operations and common stock price 11Table of Contentswould be materially adversely affected and our insolvency could result. Our substantial indebtedness adversely affects our financial health and operating flexibility. As of December 31, 2010, our total consolidated indebtedness was $3.6 billion, including $0.7 billion of debt associated with Properties in Default. Payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave us with insufficient cash resources to operate our properties. We may not generate sufficient cash flow after debt service to reinstate distributions on our common stock and/or Series A Preferred Stock in the near term or at all. Our existing mortgage agreements contain lockbox and cash management provisions, which, under certain circumstances, limit our ability to utilize available cash flows at the specific property, including for the payment of distributions. Our level of debt and the limitations imposed on us by our debt agreements could have significant adverse consequences to us and the value of our common stock, regardless of our ability to refinance or extend our debt, including: • Limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, execution of our business plan or other purposes; • Limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business or to pay dividends because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to service our debt; • Increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • Limiting our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures and adverse changes in government regulations; • Limiting our ability to fund capital expenditures, tenant improvements and leasing commissions; • Limiting our ability or increasing the costs to refinance our indebtedness; and • Limiting our ability to enter into marketing and hedging transactions by reducing the number of counterparties with whom we can enter into such transactions as well as the volume of those transactions. The lockbox and cash management arrangements contained in most of our loan agreements provide that substantially all of the income generated by our special purpose property-owning subsidiaries is deposited directly into lockbox accounts and then swept into cash management accounts for the benefit of our various lenders. With the exception of the Properties in Default, cash is distributed to us only after funding of improvement, leasing and maintenance reserves and the payment of debt service, insurance, taxes, operating expenses, and extraordinary capital expenditures and leasing expenses. Furthermore, foreclosures could create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, a circumstance that could hinder our ability to meet the REIT distribution requirements imposed by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). Foreclosures could also trigger our tax indemnification obligations under the terms of our agreements with Mr. Maguire and other contributors with respect to sales of certain properties, obligating us to use commercially reasonable efforts to make certain levels of indebtedness available for them to guarantee. Given the restrictions in our debt covenants and those that may be included in any loan extensions we may obtain in the future, we may be significantly limited in our operating and financial flexibility and may be limited in our ability to respond to changes in our business or competitive activities. 12Table of ContentsWe may not be able to raise capital to repay debt or finance our operations. We are working to generate capital from a variety of sources. There can be no assurance that any of these capital raising activities will be successful. Any deterioration in the economic climate could negatively affect the value of our properties and therefore reduce our ability to dispose of these properties on acceptable terms. Our ability to dispose of our properties is also negatively affected by the weakness of the credit markets, which increases the cost and difficulty for potential purchasers to acquire financing, as well as by the illiquid nature of real estate. Finally, our current financial difficulties may encourage potential purchasers to offer less attractive terms for our properties. These conditions also negatively affect our ability to raise capital through other means, including through the sale of equity or joint venture interests. Tax indemnification obligations in the event that we dispose of certain properties could limit our operating flexibility. At the time of our initial public offering, we agreed to indemnify Mr. Maguire and related entities and other contributors from all direct and indirect adverse tax consequences in the event that our Operating Partnership directly or indirectly sells, exchanges or otherwise disposes (including by way of merger, sale of assets or otherwise) of any portion of its interests in certain properties in a taxable transaction. Certain types of transactions, including but not limited to joint ventures and refinancings, can be structured to avoid triggering the tax indemnification obligations. These tax indemnification obligations cover five of the office properties in our portfolio, which represented 59.1% of our Effective Portfolio’s aggregate annualized rent as of December 31, 2010 (excluding Properties in Default). These obligations apply for periods of up to 12 years from the date that these properties were contributed to our Operating Partnership at the time of our initial public offering in June 2003. The tax indemnification obligations may serve to prevent the disposition of the following assets that might otherwise provide important liquidity alternatives to us: • Gas Company Tower (initial expiration in June 2012, with final expiration in June 2015); • US Bank Tower (initial expiration in June 2012, with final expiration in June 2015); • KPMG Tower (initial expiration in June 2012, with final expiration in June 2015); • Wells Fargo Tower (extended expiration in June 2011, with final expiration in June 2013); and • Plaza Las Fuentes (excluding the Westin® Pasadena Hotel) (extended expiration in June 2011, with final expiration in June 2013). We agreed to these provisions in order to assist Mr. Maguire and certain other contributors in preserving their tax position after their contribution of property interests to us. While we do not intend to dispose of any of these properties in transactions that would trigger these tax indemnifications obligations, if we were to trigger our tax indemnification obligations under these agreements, we would be required to pay damages for the resulting tax consequences to Mr. Maguire and certain other contributors, and we have acknowledged that a calculation of damages in the event these tax indemnification obligations are triggered will not be based on the time value of money nor the time remaining within the lock-out period, but will also give consideration to the tax effect of the disposition on the contributor or contributors. In addition, we could involuntarily trigger our tax indemnification obligations under these provisions in the event of a condemnation of one of these properties or in the event one of these properties were to be transferred in a foreclosure proceeding, pursuant to deed-in-lieu of foreclosure, or in any other taxable transaction. Were tax indemnification obligations to be triggered with respect to any of the above properties, the damages we would incur would likely have a material effect on our financial position and could result in our insolvency. The tax indemnification obligations may serve to prevent the sale of certain assets that might otherwise provide valuable liquidity alternatives to us and certain change of control transactions that would create adverse tax consequences for Mr. Maguire and the other contributors. 13Table of ContentsContinuing adverse economic conditions may have an adverse effect on our revenue and available cash, and may also impact our ability to sell certain properties if or when we decide to do so. Our business requires continued access to cash to finance our operations, dividends, capital expenditures, indebtedness repayment obligations and development costs. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash for these purposes. Given current market conditions, rental revenue generated from our tenants may decrease due to tenant defaults and/or tenant bankruptcies. In addition to the direct adverse effect of tenant failures on our operations, these events also negatively affect our ability to attract and maintain rent levels for new tenants. Further, the actual or perceived adverse impact of current economic conditions on certain industries in which many of our tenants operate, including the mortgage, financial, insurance and professional services industries, may also negatively impact our revenue and our ability to complete any sale of our properties. These circumstances negatively affect our revenue and available cash, and also decrease the value of our properties, reducing the likelihood that we would be able to sell such properties, if or when we decide to do so, on attractive terms or at all. Real properties are illiquid investments and we may be unable to adjust our portfolio in response to changes in economic or other conditions or dispose of properties if or when we decide to do so. Real properties are illiquid investments and we may be unable to adjust our portfolio in response to changes in economic or other conditions. In addition, the real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand, all of which are beyond our control. Particularly in light of current economic conditions, we cannot predict whether we will be able to dispose of any property for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective buyer would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing buyer and to close the sale of a property or the disposition of properties that are in default. In addition, the availability of financing and current market conditions may delay or prevent the closing of a sale of a property even if the price and other terms of the transaction were acceptable to us. The foregoing could mean that we may be unable to complete the disposition of identified properties in the near term or at all. Our inability to dispose of the Westin® Pasadena Hotel in accordance with our projected timing and pricing could have a material negative impact on our liquidity position. We have the power to issue additional securities. Subject to (1) the limited rights of holders of our Series A Preferred Stock and each parity class or series of preferred stock, voting together as a single class, to approve certain issuances of senior classes or series of stock and (2) any stockholder consent required by applicable law or any stock exchange rules, we may issue certain securities without further action by our stockholders. Our board of directors may authorize us to issue securities that could, depending upon the terms of the particular securities, delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control of the Company that might involve a premium price for our stockholders or otherwise be in their best interests. In addition, future issuances of securities could be dilutive to existing stockholders and could adversely impact the trading prices of our common stock and/or our Series A Preferred Stock.If our common stock is delisted from the NYSE, there could be a negative effect on our business that could impact our financial condition, results of operations and ability to service our debt obligations. Our lowered stock price increases the risk that our stock will be delisted from the NYSE. The delisting of our common stock or threat thereof could have adverse effects by, among other things: • Reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock; • Reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, thereby further restricting our ability to obtain equity financing; • Damaging our reputation with current or potential tenants, lenders, vendors and other third parties; 14Table of Contents• Potentially giving rise to lender consent rights with respect to future change in control arrangements, property dispositions and certain other transactions under several of our debt agreements; • Reducing our ability to retain, attract and motivate our directors, officers and employees; and • Requiring the time and attention of our management and key employees on this issue, diverting attention from other responsibilities. We depend on significant tenants. As of December 31, 2010, our 20 largest tenants represented 50.2% of our Effective Portfolio’s total annualized rental revenue (excluding Properties in Default). Our rental revenue depends on entering into leases with and collecting rents from tenants. General and regional economic conditions, such as the current challenging economic climate described above, may adversely affect our major tenants and potential tenants in our markets. Some of our tenants are in the mortgage, financial, insurance and professional services industries, and these industries have been severely impacted by the current economic climate. Many of our major tenants have experienced or may experience a notable business downturn, weakening their financial condition and potentially resulting in their failure to make timely rental payments and/or a default under their leases. In many cases, we have made substantial up-front investments in the applicable leases, through tenant improvement allowances and other concessions, as well as typical transaction costs (including professional fees and commissions) that we may not be able to recover. In the event of any tenant default, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant also may adversely affect the income produced by our properties. If any tenant becomes a debtor in a case under the United States Bankruptcy Code, we cannot evict the tenant solely because of the bankruptcy. In addition, the bankruptcy court might authorize the tenant to reject and terminate their lease with us. Our claim against the tenant for unpaid future rent would be subject to a statutory cap that might be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease. Also, our claim for unpaid rent would likely not be paid in full. During 2008 and 2009, there were a number of high profile bank failures. Failed banks or banks involved in government-facilitated sales are subject to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation’s (the “FDIC”) statutory authority and receivership process. The FDIC has receivership powers that are substantially broader than those of a bankruptcy trustee. In dealing with the FDIC in any repudiation of a lease, the Company as landlord is likely in a less favorable position than with a debtor in a bankruptcy proceeding. Many of the creditor protections that exist in a bankruptcy proceeding do not exist in a FDIC receivership. Our revenue and cash flow could be materially adversely affected if any of our significant tenants were to become bankrupt or insolvent, or suffer a downturn in their business, default under their leases or fail to renew their leases at all or renew on terms less favorable to us than their current terms. Continuing state budget problems in California may have an adverse effect on our operating results and occupancy levels. The State of California began its fiscal year on July 1, 2010 with a significant reported deficit, which continues to impact the current recessionary conditions within that state. The State of California continues to address severe budget shortfalls through reductions of benefits and services and the layoff or furlough of employees. The State’s budgetary issues may reduce demand for leased space in California office properties. We may be unable to renew leases, lease vacant space or re-lease space as leases expire. As of December 31, 2010, leases representing 9.7% of the square footage of the properties in our Effective Portfolio (excluding Properties in Default) will expire in 2011 and an additional 16.1% of the square 15Table of Contentsfootage of the properties in our Effective Portfolio (excluding Properties in Default) was available for lease. Above-market rental rates at some of our properties will force us to renew or re-lease some expiring leases at lower rates. We cannot assure you that leases will be renewed or that our properties will be re-leased at net effective rental rates equal to or above their current net effective rental rates (particularly in the current softened leasing market). U.S. economic conditions have been uncertain and challenging. U.S. market and economic conditions continue to be challenging, with tighter credit conditions and modest growth. While recent economic data reflects a stabilization of the economy and credit markets, the cost and availability of credit may continue to be adversely affected. Concern about continued stability of the economy and credit markets generally, and the strength of counterparties specifically, has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases cease, to provide funding to borrowers. Volatility in the U.S. and international capital markets and continued recessionary conditions in global economies, and in the California economy in particular, may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the liquidity and financial condition of our tenants. If these market conditions continue, they may limit our ability and the ability of our tenants to satisfy maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. Inflation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Should inflation increase in the future, we may experience: • Difficulty in replacing or renewing expiring leases; and/or • An inability to receive reimbursement from our tenants for their share of certain operating expenses, including common area maintenance, real estate taxes and insurance. Inflation also poses a potential threat to us due to the probability of future increases in interest rates. Such increases would adversely impact us due to our outstanding variable-rate debt as well as result in higher interest rates on new fixed-rate debt. Our stock price may continue to be adversely affected. The price of our common stock has decreased materially and will continue to be affected by the factors described under this Item 1A. “Risk Factors.” The price at which our common stock will trade may be volatile and may fluctuate due to factors such as: • Our financial condition and performance, including the risk of insolvency; • Our quarterly and annual operating results; • Variations between our actual results and analyst and investor expectations or changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; • The performance and prospects of our industry; • The depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; • Concentration of ownership; • Short sales of our stock triggered by hedging activities, including the purchase of credit default swaps by certain of our lenders; • U.S. and international economic conditions; 16Table of Contents• The extent of institutional investors’ interest in us; • The reputation of REITs generally and the attractiveness of their equity securities in comparison to other equity securities; and • General market volatility, conditions and trends. Fluctuations may be unrelated to or disproportionate to our financial performance. These fluctuations may result in a material decline in the trading price of our common stock. Most of our properties depend upon the Southern California economy and the demand for office space. Most of our properties are located in Los Angeles County and Orange County, California, and many of them are concentrated in the LACBD, which exposes us to greater economic risks than if we owned properties in several geographic regions. Moreover, because our portfolio of properties consists primarily of office buildings, a decrease in the demand for office space, and Class A office space in particular, may have a greater adverse effect on our business and financial condition than if we owned a more diversified real estate portfolio. We are susceptible to adverse developments in the Southern California region (such as business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns (such as the current significant downturns in the mortgage and finance industries), relocations of businesses, changing demographics, increased telecommuting, terrorist targeting of high-rise structures, infrastructure quality, California state budgetary constraints and priorities (particularly during challenging financial times like the present), increases in real estate and other taxes, costs of complying with government regulations or increased regulation and other factors) and the national and Southern California regional office space market (such as oversupply of, reduced demand for or decline in property values in such office space). The State of California is also generally regarded as more litigious and more highly regulated and taxed than many states, which may reduce demand for office space in California. We cannot assure you of the growth of the Southern California economy or the national economy or our future growth rate. Potential losses may not be covered by insurance. We carry commercial liability, fire, extended coverage, earthquake, flood, pollution legal liability, boiler and machinery, earthquake sprinkler leakage, terrorism, business interruption and rental loss insurance covering all of the properties in our portfolio under a portfolio insurance program. We believe the policy specifications and insured limits are appropriate and adequate given the relative risk of loss, the cost of the coverage and industry practice. We do not carry insurance for generally uninsured losses such as loss from riots or war. Some of our policies, such as those covering losses due to terrorism, earthquake and floods, are insured subject to limitations involving large deductibles or co-payments and policy limits, which may not be sufficient to cover such losses. Most of our properties are located in Southern California, an area especially subject to earthquakes. Six of the seven largest properties in our office portfolio—US Bank Tower, Gas Company Tower, Wells Fargo Tower, KPMG Tower, Two California Plaza and One California Plaza (one of our joint venture properties)—are all located within the Bunker Hill section of downtown Los Angeles. Together, these properties represented roughly 69.5% of our Effective Portfolio’s aggregate annualized rent (excluding Properties in Default) as of December 31, 2010. Because these properties are located so closely together, an earthquake in downtown Los Angeles and associated disasters could materially damage, destroy or impair the use by tenants of all of these properties. While we presently carry earthquake insurance on our properties, the amount of our earthquake insurance coverage may not be sufficient to fully cover losses from earthquakes and associated disasters, particularly in downtown Los Angeles. In addition, we may discontinue earthquake, terrorism or other insurance on some or all of our properties in the future if the cost of premiums for any of these policies exceeds, in our judgment, the value of the coverage discounted for the risk of loss. The cost of coverage for losses due to earthquakes and other natural disasters may significantly increase, and our ability to obtain appropriate levels of coverage may be adversely impacted, as a result of the recent series of disasters in Japan. 17Table of ContentsIf we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds policy limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties as well as the anticipated future cash flow from those properties. In addition, if the damaged properties are subject to recourse indebtedness, we would continue to be liable for the indebtedness, even if these properties were irreparably damaged. In such event, securing additional insurance, if possible, could be significantly more expensive than our current program. Future terrorist attacks in the United States could harm the demand for and the value of our properties. Future terrorist attacks in the U.S., such as the attacks that occurred in New York City and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, and other acts of terrorism or war could harm the demand for and the value of our properties. Certain of our properties are well-known landmarks and may be perceived as more likely terrorist targets than similar, less recognizable properties, which could potentially reduce the demand for and value of these properties. A decrease in demand or value could make it difficult for us to renew leases or re-lease space at lease rates equal to or above historical rates or then-prevailing market rates. Terrorist attacks also could directly impact the value of our properties through damage, destruction, loss, or increased security costs, and the availability of insurance for such acts may be limited or cost more. Six of the seven largest properties in our office portfolio—US Bank Tower, Gas Company Tower, Wells Fargo Tower, KPMG Tower, Two California Plaza and One California Plaza (one of our joint venture properties)—are all located within the Bunker Hill section of downtown Los Angeles. Together, these properties represented roughly 69.5% of our Effective Portfolio’s aggregate annualized rent (excluding Properties in Default) as of December 31, 2010. Because these properties are located so closely together, a terrorist attack on any one of these properties, or in the downtown Los Angeles or Bunker Hill areas generally, could materially damage, destroy or impair the use by tenants of all of these properties. To the extent that our tenants are impacted by future attacks, their ability to continue to honor obligations under their existing leases with us could be adversely affected. Additionally, certain tenants have termination rights or purchase options in respect of certain casualties. If we receive casualty proceeds, we may not be able to reinvest such proceeds profitably or at all, and we may be forced to recognize a taxable gain on the affected property. Failure to reinvest casualty proceeds in the affected property or properties could also trigger our tax indemnification obligations under our agreements with certain limited partners of our Operating Partnership with respect to sales of specified properties. Market interest rates and other factors may affect the value of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock. One of the factors that influence the price of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock is the dividend yield relative to market interest rates. An increase in market interest rates, which are currently at low levels relative to historical rates, could cause the market price of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock to go down. The trading price of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock would also depend on many other factors, which may change from time to time, including: • Whether we are paying dividends on our common stock and/or Series A Preferred Stock; • Prevailing interest rates; • The market for similar securities; • The attractiveness of REIT securities in comparison to the securities of other companies, taking into account, among other things, the higher tax rates imposed on dividends paid by REITs; • Government action or regulation; • General economic conditions; and 18Table of Contents• Our financial condition, performance and prospects. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect results of operations. We seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements that involve risk, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements and that such arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. Our performance and value are subject to risks associated with real estate assets and with the real estate industry. Our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders depends on our ability to generate revenue in excess of expenses, scheduled principal payments on debt and capital expenditure requirements. Events and conditions generally applicable to owners and operators of real property that are beyond our control may decrease cash available for distribution and the value of our properties. These events include: • Local oversupply, increased competition or reduction in demand for office space; • Inability to collect rent from tenants; • Vacancies or our inability to rent space on favorable terms; • Inability to finance property development and acquisitions on favorable terms; • Increased operating costs, including insurance premiums, utilities and real estate taxes; • Costs of complying with changes in governmental regulations; • The relative illiquidity of real estate investments; • Property damage resulting from seismic activity or other natural disasters; and • Changing submarket demographics. In addition, we are subject to risks generally incident to the ownership of real property, including changes in global, national, regional or local economic or real estate market conditions. For example, the current credit crisis and global economic slowdown makes it more difficult for us to lease space in or dispose of our properties. In addition, rising interest rates could also make alternative interest-bearing and other investments more attractive and therefore potentially lower the relative value of our existing real estate investments. These conditions, or the public perception that any of these conditions may occur, could result in a general decline in rents or an increased incidence of defaults under existing leases. Increasing utility costs in California may have an adverse effect on our operating results and occupancy levels. The State of California continues to address issues related to the supply of electricity, water and natural gas. In recent years, shortages of electricity have resulted in increased costs for consumers and certain interruptions in service. Increased consumer costs and consumer perception that the State is not able to effectively manage its utility needs may reduce demand for leased space in California office properties. A significant reduction in demand for office space could adversely affect our future financial condition and results of operations. 19Table of ContentsWe face significant competition, which may decrease or prevent increases of the occupancy and rental rates of our properties. We compete with numerous developers, owners and operators of office and commercial real estate, many of whom own properties similar to ours in the same submarkets in which our properties are located. If our competitors offer space at rental rates below current market rates, or below the rental rates we currently charge our tenants, some of which are significantly above current market rates, we may lose potential tenants and may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge in order to retain tenants when their leases expire. Our competitors also may be able to offer better tenant incentives than we can due to our liquidity challenges. We could default on leases for land on which some of our properties are located. We possess leasehold interests on the land at Two California Plaza that, including renewal options, expires in 2082. We also have a lease for the land at Brea Corporate Place that expires in 2083. As of December 31, 2010, we had 1,657,739 net rentable square feet of office space located on these parcels. If we default under the terms of these long-term leases, we may be liable for damages and lose our interest in these properties, including our options to purchase the land subject to the leases. On March 7, 2011, our special purpose property-owning subsidiary that owns Two California Plaza defaulted on the mortgage loan secured by the property. Because we own a hotel property, we face the risks associated with the hospitality industry. We own the Westin® Pasadena Hotel located in Pasadena, California and are susceptible to risks associated with the hospitality industry, including: • Competition for guests with other hotels, some of which may have greater marketing and financial resources than the manager of our hotel; • Increases in operating costs from inflation and other factors that the manager of our hotel may not be able to offset through higher room rates; • Future terrorist attacks that could adversely affect the travel and tourism industries and decrease demand for our hotel; • Fluctuating and seasonal demands of business travelers and tourism; • General and local economic conditions (such as the current economic downturn) may affect demand for travel in general; and • Potential oversupply of hotel rooms resulting from excessive new development. We could incur significant costs related to government regulation and private litigation over environmental matters. Under various laws relating to the protection of the environment, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for contamination resulting from the presence or discharge of hazardous or toxic substances at that property, and may be required to investigate and clean up such contamination at that property or emanating from that property. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the contaminants, and the liability may be joint and several. The presence of contamination or the failure to remedy contamination in our properties may expose us to third-party liability or adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or develop the real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. These environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance and removal of ACBM, and may impose 20Table of Contentsfines and penalties for failure to comply with these requirements or expose us to third-party liability. Some of our properties contain ACBM and we could be liable for such fines or penalties. We cannot assure our stockholders that costs of future environmental compliance will not affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders or such costs or other remedial measures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results of operations. None of the recent site assessments revealed any past or present environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results of operations. If excessive moisture accumulates in our buildings or on our building materials, it may trigger mold growth. Mold may emit airborne toxins or irritants. Inadequate ventilation, chemical contamination and other biological contaminants (including pollen, viruses, and bacteria) could also impair indoor air quality at our buildings. Impaired indoor air quality may cause a variety of adverse health effects, such as allergic reactions. If mold or other airborne contaminants exist or appear at our properties, we may have to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the contaminants or increase indoor ventilation. If indoor air quality were impaired, we may have to temporarily relocate some or all of a property’s tenants and could be liable to our tenants, their employees or others for property damage and/or personal injury. Some of the properties in our portfolio contain, or may have contained, or are adjacent to or near other properties that have contained or currently contain, underground storage tanks for the storage of petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances. If hazardous or toxic substances were released from these tanks, we could incur significant costs or be liable to third parties with respect to the releases. From time to time, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) designates certain sites affected by hazardous substances as “Superfund” sites pursuant to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act. The EPA identifies parties who are considered to be potentially responsible for the hazardous substances at Superfund sites and makes them liable for the costs of responding to the hazardous substances. The parcel of land on which the Glendale Center is located lies within a large Superfund site, and we could be named as a potentially responsible party with respect to that site. Existing conditions at some of our properties may expose us to liability related to environmental matters. Independent environmental consultants have conducted Phase I or other environmental site assessments on all of the properties in our existing portfolio. Site assessments are intended to discover and evaluate information regarding the environmental condition of the surveyed property and surrounding properties. These assessments do not generally include soil samplings, subsurface investigations or an asbestos survey and the assessments may fail to reveal all environmental conditions, liabilities or compliance concerns. None of the site assessments revealed any past or present environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results of operations. However, the assessments may have failed to reveal all environmental conditions, liabilities or compliance concerns. Material environmental conditions, liabilities, or compliance concerns may have arisen after the review was completed or may arise in the future and future laws, ordinances or regulations may impose material additional environmental liability. Losses resulting from the breach of our loan document representations related to environmental issues or hazardous substances are generally recourse to our Operating Partnership pursuant to our non-recourse carve out guarantees and therefore present a risk to MPG Office Trust, Inc. should a special purpose property-owning subsidiary be unable to cover such a loss. We cannot assure our stockholders that costs of future environmental compliance will not affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders or such costs or other remedial measures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results of operations. We face risks related to climate change and climate change regulation. Although we cannot say with certainty the rate, if any, at which climate change will occur, climate change could have a material adverse impact on our properties, results of operations and business. If climate change 21Table of Contentstriggers a rise in sea levels or increases storm intensities, a decrease in demand for office space in our buildings may result, or we may have to cease operation of the buildings. Climate change could raise the cost of property insurance or electricity, making one or both difficult to obtain on acceptable terms. The EPA has been moving to regulate greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions from large stationary and other sources, including electricity producers. States have also taken actions to regulate GHG emissions. For example, the State of California enacted AB 32, the Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006, establishing the first statewide program in the U.S. to limit GHG emissions. The California Air Resources Board has taken, and plans to take, various actions to implement AB 32, including approving in December 2010 a GHG cap-and-trade program, which is scheduled to take effect in 2012. Any additional taxation or regulation of GHGs, including as a result of (i) new legislation that Congress may pass, (ii) the regulations that the EPA has proposed or finalized, or (iii) regulations under legislation that states have passed or may pass could significantly increase our costs of operations and impact demand for our properties. Potential environmental liabilities may exceed our environmental insurance coverage limits. We carry environmental insurance to cover likely and reasonably anticipated potential environmental liability, including liability associated with the discharge, seepage, migration or release of any solid, liquid or gaseous contaminant. While we believe this coverage is sufficient to protect us against likely environmental risks, we cannot assure you that our insurance coverage will be sufficient. Losses resulting from the breach of our loan document representations related to environmental issues or hazardous substances are generally recourse to our Operating Partnership pursuant to our non-recourse carve out guarantees and therefore present a risk to MPG Office Trust, Inc. should a special purpose property-owning subsidiary be unable to cover such a loss. We may incur significant costs complying with the ADA and similar laws. Under the ADA, all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Although we believe that the properties in our portfolio substantially comply with present requirements of the ADA and we continue to make capital expenditures to address the requirements of the ADA, we have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance. If one or more of our properties is not in compliance with the ADA, then we would be required to incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance. Additional federal, state and local laws also may require modifications to our properties, or restrict our ability to renovate our properties. We cannot predict the ultimate amount of the cost of compliance with the ADA or other legislation. We may incur significant costs complying with other regulations. The properties in our portfolio are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. If we fail to comply with these various requirements, we might incur governmental fines or private damage awards. We believe that the properties in our portfolio are currently in material compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements. However, we do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether future requirements will require us to make significant unanticipated expenditures. Joint venture investments, including our joint venture with Charter Hall Group, could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on co-venturers’ financial condition and disputes between us and our co-venturers. We are currently partners with Charter Hall Group in a joint venture. We may also co-invest in the future with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures or other entities, acquiring non-controlling interests in or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of a property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. In the case of our existing joint venture and any additional joint ventures, we would not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the property, partnership, joint venture or other entities. Additionally we have a right of 22Table of Contentsfirst opportunity agreement with Charter Hall Group, which obligates us to offer them the first opportunity to invest in any potential acquisition property. Investments in partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that partners or co-venturers might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Partners or co-venturers may have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. These risks are more significant in light of Charter Hall Group’s stated desire to pursue an orderly exit from the joint venture. Such investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions, such as a sale, because neither we nor the partner or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. Impasses could also result in either the sale of a building or buildings, the sale of our joint venture interest or the purchase of Charter Hall Group’s interest. Disputes between us and partners or co-venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and/or directors from focusing their time and effort on our business. Consequently, actions by or disputes with partners or co-venturers might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. In addition, we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners or co-venturers. We will seek to maintain sufficient control of such entities to permit them to achieve our business objectives. Failure to qualify as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences to us and the value of our stock. We operate in a manner that is intended to allow us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes under the Code. To qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy a number of asset, income, organizational, operational, dividend distribution, stock ownership and other requirements. For example, we must make distributions to our stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding net capital gains. However, we have not had REIT taxable income, and have not been required to make any distributions to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement, for the past several years and do not anticipate having to make any distributions to satisfy such requirement for 2011. We have not requested and do not plan to request a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) that we qualify as a REIT, and the statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are not binding on the IRS or any court. If we lose our REIT status, we will face serious tax consequences that would substantially reduce the funds available for distribution to our stockholders for each of the years involved because: (i) we would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to stockholders in computing our taxable income and we would be subject to federal and state income tax at regular corporate rates; (ii) we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and (iii) unless we are entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will not be required to make distributions to stockholders. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and would adversely affect the value of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The complexity of these provisions and of the applicable U.S. Treasury Department regulations that have been promulgated under the Code is greater in the case of a REIT that, like us, holds its assets through a partnership. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. In addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may adversely affect our investors, our ability to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes or the desirability of an investment in a REIT relative to other investments. Even if we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we may be subject to some federal, state and local taxes on our income or property and, in certain cases, a 100% penalty tax in the event we sell property as a dealer or if our services company enters into agreements with us or our tenants on a basis that is determined to be other than on an arm’s-length basis. 23Table of ContentsOur success depends on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed. We depend on the efforts of key personnel. If we lost their services, our business and investment opportunities and relationships could diminish. Many of our senior executives have strong regional industry reputations, which aid us in identifying opportunities, having opportunities brought to us, and negotiating with tenants. While we believe that we could find replacements for all of these key personnel, the loss of their services could materially and adversely affect our operations because of diminished relationships with lenders, existing and prospective tenants and industry personnel. Our charter and Maryland law contain provisions that may delay, defer or prevent transactions that may be beneficial to the holders of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock. Our charter contains a 9.8% ownership limit. Our Articles of Amendment and Restatement (our “charter”), subject to certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT and to limit any person to actual or constructive ownership of no more than 9.8% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt a proposed transferee from the ownership limit. However, our board of directors may not grant an exemption from the ownership limit to any proposed transferee whose ownership, direct or indirect, in excess of 9.8% of the value of our outstanding shares of our common stock could jeopardize our status as a REIT. These restrictions on transferability and ownership will not apply if our board of directors determines that it is no longer in our best interests to attempt to qualify, or to continue to qualify, as a REIT. The ownership limit may delay or impede a transaction or a change in control that might be in the best interest of our stockholders. We could authorize and issue stock without stockholder approval. Our charter authorizes our board of directors to amend the charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have the authority to issue, to issue authorized but unissued shares of our common stock or Series A Preferred Stock and to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of our common stock or Series A Preferred Stock and to set the preferences, rights and other terms of such classified or unclassified shares. Our board of directors could establish another series of stock that could, depending on the terms of such series, delay, defer or prevent a transaction that might be in the best interest of our stockholders. Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes in control. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law (“MGCL”) may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change in control under circumstances that otherwise could be in the best interest of our stockholders, including: (i) “business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our outstanding voting shares or any affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our then outstanding shares) or an affiliate thereof for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter imposes special appraisal rights and supermajority stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and (ii) “control share” provisions that provide that “control shares” of our company (defined as shares that, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of issued and outstanding “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares. We have opted out of these provisions of the MGCL, in the case of the business combination provisions of the MGCL by resolution of our board of directors, and in the case of the control share provisions of the MGCL pursuant to a provision in our bylaws. However, our board of directors may by resolution elect to opt in to the business combination provisions of the MGCL and we may, by amendment to our bylaws, opt in to the control share provisions of the MGCL in the future. In addition, provided that we have a class of equity securities registered under the Exchange Act and at least three independent directors, Subtitle 8 of Title 3 of the MGCL permits us to elect to be subject, by provision in our charter or bylaws 24Table of Contentsor a resolution of our board of directors and notwithstanding any contrary provision in the charter or bylaws, to certain provisions, including a classified board and a requirement that a vacancy on the board be filled only by the remaining directors and for the remainder of the full term of the class of directors in which the vacancy occurred. Our charter, bylaws, the partnership agreement and Maryland law also contain other provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 