D. Risk factors. Current Economic Climate In 2008, the global economy experienced unprecedented volatility. While many stock market indices and commodity prices reached all-time highs in the first half of the year, global credit markets contracted in the latter half, resulting in decreased bank liquidity and a global credit crisis. This crisis led to sharp declines in stock market indices, reduced investor confidence, lower interest rates, volatile foreign exchange markets, high profile bank failures, intervention by governments and central banks in the marketplace, and a general slowdown in global economic activity. While the impact these developments will have on the Corporation’s business cannot be reasonably determined, they could adversely impact the Corporation’s revenues, earnings and cash flow and its ability to attract and retain loyalty program partners. Travel Industry Risks The Corporation and the majority of its loyalty program partners operate in the travel industry in North America. The ability of the Corporation’s loyalty program partners to continue to drive commercial activity to their businesses is integral to generating loyalty miles/points for their respective programs. As well, the overall popularity of loyalty miles/points and value they have to end-customers is what drives the business activity of the Corporation. Points generates the majority of its revenue from end-customers who are transacting loyalty miles/points through the Corporation’s online solutions. As such, revenue is transactional in nature and dependent on the number and size of these transactions. There is no assurance that the popularity of these programs will continue to grow or maintain current levels of popularity. A change in consumer tastes or a downturn in the travel industry in North America may adversely affect the Corporation’s ability to generate ongoing revenue from transactions. - 4 - Dependence on Loyalty Program Partners There can be no assurance that the Corporation will be successful in maintaining its existing contractual relationships with its loyalty program partners. The Corporation’s loyalty program partners have in the past, and may in the future, negotiate arrangements that are short-term and subject to renewal, non-exclusive and/or terminable at the option of the partner on relatively short notice without penalty. Loyalty program partners that have not provided a long-term commitment or guarantee of exclusivity, or that have the ability to terminate on short notice, may exercise this flexibility to end their relationship with the Corporation or to negotiate from time to time more preferential financial and other terms than originally contracted for. The Corporation cannot ensure that such negotiations will not have an adverse affect on the financial condition or results of operations of the Corporation. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Corporation will be able to establish relationships with new loyalty program partners. For the year ended December 31, 2008, two of the Corporation’s loyalty program partners represented 78% (three loyalty program partners for the year ended December 31, 2007 represented 75%) of the Corporation’s consolidated revenue. The loss of any one or more of the Corporation’s key loyalty program partners could have a material adverse affect on the Corporation’s business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. Contractual Performance Commitments The Corporation, in some of its agreements with loyalty program partners, has made commitments as to the number of points it will process or revenues it will generate for its partners over the term of its agreements. The commitments are measured annually. There is a risk that these commitments may not be met, resulting in the Corporation being required to purchase the shortfall in points/miles to meet annual contracted levels and take these into inventory. The Corporation's ability to use or sell any purchased points/miles is limited by terms in its contracts. As a result, there is a risk that the Corporation may have difficulty in selling or making use of this inventory which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. There is also a risk that the Corporation may have insufficient resources to purchase any shortfall and that the Corporation may need to obtain financing to meet such commitments. There is no guarantee that the Corporation would be able to obtain such financing if needed. The failure to purchase any shortfall under a performance commitment or the failure to obtain necessary financing could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, revenues, liquidity, operating results and financial condition. Lack of Profitability Prior to the first quarter of 2008, the Corporation had never had a profitable quarter in its operating history. The Corporation may not be profitable in future periods. Limited Financial Resources The financial resources of the Corporation are limited. If cash flows provided by operations do not remain positive and increase the Corporation’s liquid and unencumbered cash position, the Corporation could in the future be dependent upon its ability to obtain additional financing either by debt, equity or other means. The ability of the Corporation to arrange such additional financing will depend in part upon the then prevailing capital market conditions, as well as the business performance of the Corporation. There can be no assurance that the Corporation will be successful in its efforts to arrange additional financing on terms satisfactory to the Corporation. If additional financing is raised by the issuance of common shares from treasury, this may result in significant dilution to the holders of the outstanding common shares. If additional financing is raised by the issuance of debt, the Corporation will be more highly leveraged going forward and interest payments upon such debt could have a negative impact on the cash flow of the Corporation. If cash flows provided by the Corporation’s operations do not remain positive and/or adequate financing is not available, or is not available on acceptable terms, the Corporation may not be able to take advantage of opportunities, invest in technological development and enhancements, meet its liabilities as they become due or otherwise respond to competitive pressures, any of which would have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. - 5 - Liabilities of the Corporation As at December 31, 2008, the Corporation had outstanding consolidated current liabilities of $30,271,057 and consolidated total liabilities of $30,530,277. There is no assurance that the Corporation will be able to repay such amounts when and if they are due, as any such repayment will be dependent upon generating sufficient cash reserves and may also be dependent upon securing additional financing. Revenue Operating revenues are derived from contracts for Ecommerce Services and Points.com participation. This includes revenue in the form of principal revenue, technical development and maintenance fees, commissions and membership fees. Revenue growth is dependent on attracting new loyalty program partners and customers for the Corporation’s business, increasing the number of transactions engaged in by current consumers, and in securing continued contracts for its Ecommerce Services. Competition or other business factors may have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s ability to grow its revenue. Competition There are several companies that compete with certain products and services offered by the Corporation. Further, new competitors could enter the market at any time, or alliances among competitors could emerge. Many of the Corporation’s existing competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, service and other resources than the Corporation. The Corporation’s competitors may announce or develop new products, services or enhancements that better meet the needs of customers. As well, competitors of the Corporation may have long-standing relationships with their customers. As a result, it may be difficult for the Corporation to penetrate certain markets to gain new customers or loyalty program partners. In addition, it is possible that the Corporation will not be able to maintain its existing relationships with retail customers and loyalty program partners, because of competition or other factors. Increased competition may cause price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. Growth-Related Risks The Corporation may be subject to growth-related risks, including working capital constraints, capacity constraints and pressure on its internal systems and controls. The Corporation’s ability to manage potential future growth effectively will require it to continue to implement and improve its operational and financial systems and to expand, train and manage its employee base. Any inability of the Corporation to deal with this growth could have a materially adverse impact on its business, operations and prospects. Internet Viability and System Infrastructure Reliability Risk The widespread growth in internet usage has caused frequent interruptions and delays in transmitting and processing information and data over the internet. There can be no assurance that the internet infrastructure of the Corporation’s own network systems will continue to be able to support the demands placed on it by the continued growth of the internet, the loyalty industry or that of its customers. The viability of the internet could be affected if the necessary infrastructure is not sufficient, or if other technologies and technological devices surpass the internet as a viable channel for business transactions. The end-consumers of the Corporation’s software depend on internet service providers, online service providers and the Corporation’s infrastructure for access to the software solutions the Corporation provides to its loyalty program partners. These services are subject to service outages and delays due to system failures, stability or interruption. The Corporation’s loyalty program partners may lose customers as a result of delays or interruption in service. As a result, the Corporation may not be able to meet a satisfactory level of service as contracted, and may cause a breach of the Corporation’s contractual commitments, which could have a material adverse affect on the Corporation’s business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. - 6 - Brand The Corporation believes that continuing to strengthen its brand is an important factor in achieving widespread acceptance of the Corporation’s services, and will require an increased focus on active marketing efforts. The Corporation will likely need to spend increasing amounts of money on, and devote greater resources to, advertising, marketing, and other efforts to create and maintain brand loyalty among users and potential users. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenues, and even if they do, any increased revenues may not offset the expenses incurred in building the Corporation’s brand. If the Corporation fails to promote and maintain the Corporation’s brand, or if the Corporation incurs substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain the Corporation’s brand, the Corporation’s business could be harmed. Online Advertising The Corporation currently derives, and intends in the future to derive, a portion of its revenue from online advertising. Many advertisers focus most of their advertising efforts on traditional media. The Corporation’s ability to generate online advertising revenue will depend on a number of factors, including its user base being attractive to advertisers, its ability to derive better demographic and other information from users, competition for online advertising dollars from other media and changes in the advertising industry and economy generally. Advertising is a discretionary business expense for many business organizations and industries. Consequently, a potential slowdown in the economy or in a particular business sector that represents a significant potential source of Points’ online advertising revenue could adversely affect Points’ ability to generate online advertising revenue. In addition, advertising on the internet may fall out of favour with advertisers. The Corporation’s expense levels are based in part on expectations of future online advertising revenue. Points may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall. As well, there is a risk that technologies may be developed that can block the display of advertisements on the Corporation’s web pages. As a result, ad-blocking technology could, in the future, adversely affect Points’ operating results. Intellectual Property The Corporation’s success depends in part on its ability to protect its rights in its intellectual property. The Corporation relies upon various intellectual property protections, including patents, copyright, trademarks, trade secrets and contractual provisions to preserve its intellectual property rights. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use the Corporation’s intellectual property without its authorization. Policing unauthorized use of intellectual property is difficult and some foreign laws do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the Canada or the United States. To protect the Corporation’s intellectual property, the Corporation may become involved in litigation, which could result in substantial expenses, divert the attention of its management, cause significant delays, materially disrupt the conduct of the Corporation’s business or materially adversely affect its revenues, financial condition or results of operations. Third parties may assert claims against the Corporation alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. An adverse determination in any litigation of this type could result in the Corporation being required to pay significant damages, require the Corporation to design around a third party’s patent or to license alternative technology from another party. In addition, litigation may be time-consuming and expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of time and resources. Any claims by third parties may also result in limitations on the ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. - 7 - Privacy and Protection of User Data The Corporation is subject to laws relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of personally identifiable information about the Corporation’s users, especially for financial information. New laws in this area have been passed by several jurisdictions, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. The interpretation and application of user data protection laws are in a state of flux. These laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and the Corporation’s current data protection policies and practices may not be consistent with those interpretations and applications. Complying with these varying international requirements could cause the Corporation to incur substantial costs or require the Corporation to change the Corporation’s business practices in a manner adverse to the Corporation’s business. In addition, the Corporation has and posts on the Corporation’s websites the Corporation’s own privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data. Any failure, or perceived failure, by the Corporation to comply with the Corporation’s posted privacy policies or with any regulatory requirements or orders or other federal, state or international privacy or consumer protection-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings or actions against the Corporation by governmental entities or others, subject the Corporation to significant penalties and negative publicity and materially adversely affect the Corporation. In addition, the Corporation is subject to the possibility of security breaches, which themselves may result in a violation of these laws. As well, a substantial data breach could significantly harm the Corporation’s business, damage the Corporation’s reputation, expose it to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability and/or cause customers and potential customers to lose confidence in the Corporation’s security, which would have a negative effect on the value of the Corporation’s brands. These and other privacy and security developments that are difficult to anticipate could materially adversely affect the Corporation’s business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. Dependence upon Key Personnel The Corporation’s future success is dependent upon certain key management and technical personnel. The loss of these individuals and the inability to attract and retain highly qualified employees could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. Foreign Exchange As of January 1, 2008, the Corporation changed its reporting currency from Canadian dollars to U.S. dollars. The U.S. dollar is subject to fluctuations in the exchange rate of currencies of the countries in which the Corporation operates, including Canadian dollars, British pounds sterling and Euros. Accordingly, fluctuations in the exchange rates of world currencies could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s reported results. At present, the Corporation does not utilize any hedging programs to mitigate the Corporation’s currency risk. As a result, there can be no assurance that the Corporation will not experience currency losses in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. In 2008, currency markets experienced unprecedented levels of volatility as a fall out from recent turbulence in the financial markets, particularly in the third quarter. As at December 31, 2008, foreign currencies had weakened considerably in relation to the US dollar since the end of the third quarter. In general and strictly relating to the FX loss (gain) of translating certain balance sheet accounts, a strengthening US dollar will lead to a FX loss. Sensitivity to a +/- 10% movement in exchange rates with the US dollar would affect the Corporation’s income and other comprehensive income by $672,117. Credit Risk The Corporation’s term deposits expose the Corporation to credit risk. The Corporation has guaranteed investment certificates, as per its practice of protecting its capital rather than maximizing investment yield. The Corporation manages credit risk by investing in cash equivalents, term deposits and short term investments rated as A or R1 or above. The Corporation, in the normal course of business, is exposed to credit risk from its customers and the accounts receivable are subject to normal industry risks. The majority of the Corporation’s customers are loyalty program operators. The Corporation usually provides various Ecommerce services to these loyalty program operators which normally results in an amount payable to the loyalty program operator in excess of the amount held in accounts receivable. The Corporation also manages and analyzes its accounts receivable on an ongoing basis which means the Corporation’s exposure to bad debts is not significant. - 8 - Interest rate risk The Corporation’s short-term investments subject the Corporation to interest rate risk. The Corporation’s exposure to interest rate risk is limited to the interest revenue that would be earned on cash invested in short-term investments and term deposits. Interest revenue earned in 2008 was $920,328 (2007 - $689,354). The global credit crisis in 2008 resulted in a decline in short-term interest rates in Canada and the United States in an effort by the Bank of Canada and US Federal Reserve to spur economic activity. While it is anticipated that the decline in short-term interest rates will adversely impact interest revenue in 2009, Management does not believe that the results of operations or cash flows of the Corporation will be affected to any significant degree. Chargebacks A chargeback is any credit card transaction undertaken by an end-customer that is later reversed or repudiated. The Corporation is subject to exposure in regard to chargebacks, a high incidence of which could result in penalties or eventual shut down of the payment method. As Points moves more actively to participate in its business relationships with loyalty program partners as a principal, this risk is borne by the Corporation. Risk to the Corporation from chargebacks could exceed the margin of return to Points from the transaction being carried out. While Points has fraud control measures in place to minimize exposure, chargebacks could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. Tax The application of various domestic and international sales, use, occupancy, value-added and other tax laws, rules and regulations to the Corporation’s products and services is subject to interpretation by the applicable taxing authorities. Many of the fundamental statutes and regulations that impose these taxes were established before the growth of the internet and ecommerce. If the tax laws, rules and regulations are amended, if new adverse laws, rules or regulations are adopted, or if current laws are interpreted adversely to the Corporation’s interests, particularly with respect to occupancy or value-added taxes, the results could increase the Corporation’s tax payments (prospectively or retrospectively) and/or subject it to penalties and decrease the demand for the Corporation’s products and services if the Corporation passes on such costs to the consumer. As a result, these changes could have a material adverse affect on the Corporation’s business, operating results and financial condition. Goodwill The Corporation accounts for goodwill in accordance with CICA Handbook Section 3062, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets", which, among other things, requires that goodwill be tested for impairment at least annually. Although the results of the Corporation’s testing for the year ended December 31, 2008 indicated no evidence of impairment, should the fair value of the Corporation’s net assets, determined by the Corporation’s market capitalization, be less than the carrying value of the Corporation’s net assets at future annual impairment test dates, the Corporation may have to recognize goodwill impairment losses in the Corporation’s future results of operations. This could impair the Corporation’s ability to achieve or maintain profitability in the future. U.S. and Canadian Securities Laws Compliance Risks Any future changes to the laws and regulations affecting public companies, as well as compliance with existing provisions of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 ("SOX") in the U.S. and Part XXIII.1 of the Securities Act (Ontario) and related rules and other applicable securities legislation, may cause the Corporation to incur increased costs as it evaluates the implications of new rules and responds to new requirements. Delays, or a failure to comply with the new laws, rules and regulations, could result in enforcement actions, the assessment of other penalties and civil suits. The new laws and regulations make it more expensive for the Corporation under indemnities provided by the Corporation to its officers and directors and may make it more difficult for the Corporation to obtain certain types of insurance, including liability insurance for directors and officers. Accordingly, the Corporation may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for the Corporation to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on its board of directors, or as executive officers. The Corporation may be required to hire additional personnel and utilize additional outside legal, accounting and advisory services — all of which could cause general and administrative costs to increase beyond what is currently planned. The Corporation is presently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these laws, rules and regulations, and cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs the Corporation may incur or the timing of such costs. - 9 - The Corporation is required annually to review and report on the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting in accordance with SOX section 404. The Corporation’s registered public accounting firm is also required to report on the effectiveness of management’s review and on the effectiveness of the Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting. Management’s review is designed to provide reasonable assurance, not absolute assurance, that all material weaknesses existing within the Corporation’s disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting are identified. During the first quarter of 2008, the Corporation completed the remediation of the material weakness in internal control over financial reporting identified as at December 31, 2007 (and disclosed in the Corporation’s Annual Report). While Management believes that the remediation plan has successfully remediated the material weakness, there can be no assurance that the Corporation will continue to maintain effective internal controls over its financial reporting in the future. Failure to maintain adequate controls can give rise to the possibility of errors or omissions occurring or misrepresentations in the Corporation’s disclosures which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, its financial statements, and the value of the common shares. Stock Volatility The market price for the common shares has experienced significant fluctuation and may continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price of the common shares may be adversely affected by various factors such as quarterly variations in revenue and operating results, signing or loss of a customer, changes in earnings estimates by financial analysts, speculation in the press or analyst community and general market conditions. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These company-specific or broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of the common shares. Although the common shares are listed and traded in Canada on the TSX and quoted in the United States on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board, there may from time to time not be a liquid market in the common shares. ITEM 