Risk Factors. Factors That May Affect Future Results (Cautionary Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) Certain written and oral statements made or incorporated by reference from time to time by us or our representatives in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, other filings or reports filed with the SEC, press releases, conferences, or otherwise, are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (set forth in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), which sets forth the safe harbor from civil liability provided for forward-looking statements. In particular, statements relating to our capital resources, portfolio performance and results of operations contain forward-looking statements. Furthermore, all of the statements regarding future financial performance (including anticipated funds from operations, and market conditions, demographics and results of operations) are forward-looking statements. We are including this cautionary statement to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for any such forward-looking statements. We caution investors that any forward-looking statements presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or that management may make orally or in writing from time to time, are based on management’s beliefs and assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. When used, the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “might,” “plan,” “estimate,” “project,” “should,” “will,” “result” and similar expressions, which do not relate solely to historical matters, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions and may be affected by known and unknown risks, trends, uncertainties and factors that are beyond our control. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected. We caution you that while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith beliefs when we make them, they are not guarantees of future performance and are impacted by actual events when they occur after we make such statements. We expressly disclaim any responsibility to update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Accordingly, investors should use caution in relying on past forward-looking statements, which were based on results and trends at the time they were made, to anticipate future results or trends. Some of the risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: • Adverse economic or real estate developments in Southern California, particularly in the LACBD or Orange County region; • General economic conditions; • Future terrorist attacks in the U.S.; 10 Table of Contents • Defaults on or non-renewal of leases by tenants; • Increased interest rates and operating costs; • Our failure to obtain necessary outside financing; • Decreased rental rates or increased vacancy rates; • Difficulties in identifying properties to acquire and completing acquisitions; • Difficulty in operating the properties owned through our joint ventures; • Our failure to successfully operate acquired properties and operations; • Difficulties in disposing of identified properties at attractive valuations or at all; • Our failure to reduce our level of indebtedness; • Our failure to successfully develop or redevelop properties; • Our failure to maintain our status as a REIT; • Environmental uncertainties and risks related to natural disasters; • Financial market fluctuations; and • Changes in real estate and zoning laws and increases in real property tax rates. The risks included here are not exhaustive, and additional factors could adversely affect our business and financial performance, including factors and risks included in other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Moreover, we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. Set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our stockholders. You should carefully consider the following factors in evaluating our company, our properties and our business. The occurrence of any of the following risks might cause our stockholders to lose all or a part of their investment. For purposes of this section, the term “stockholders” means the holders of shares of our common stock and of our Series A Preferred Stock. When we refer to our “Effective Portfolio,” it includes properties in our joint venture with Macquarie Office Trust at our ownership interest. Most of our properties depend upon the Southern California economy and the demand for office space. Most of our properties are located in Los Angeles County, California, Orange County, California and San Diego County, California, and many of them are concentrated in the LACBD, which exposes us to greater economic risks than if we owned properties in several geographic regions. Moreover, because our portfolio of properties consists primarily of office buildings, a decrease in the demand for office space, and Class A office space in particular, may have a greater adverse effect on our business and financial condition than if we owned a more diversified real estate portfolio. We are susceptible to adverse developments in the Southern California region (such as business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns (such as the current difficulties in the mortgage industry), relocations of businesses, changing demographics, increased telecommuting, terrorist targeting of high-rise structures, infrastructure quality, California state budgetary constraints and priorities, increases in real estate and other taxes, costs of complying with government regulations or increased regulation and other factors) and the national and Southern California regional office space market (such as oversupply of, 11 Table of Contents reduced demand for or decline in property values in such office space). The State of California is also generally regarded as more litigious and more highly regulated and taxed than many states, which may reduce demand for office space in California. Any adverse economic or real estate developments in the Southern California region, or any decrease in demand for office space resulting from California’s regulatory environment, business climate or energy or fiscal problems, could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, the per share trading price of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders. We cannot assure you of the growth of the Southern California economy or the national economy or our future growth rate. Tax indemnification obligations in the event that we sell certain properties could limit our operating flexibility. We have agreed to indemnify Mr. Maguire (and certain related entities) and certain others against adverse tax consequences to them in the event that our Operating Partnership directly or indirectly sells, exchanges or otherwise disposes (including by way of merger, sale of assets or otherwise) of any portion of its interests, in a taxable transaction, in five of the office properties in our portfolio, which represented 37.2% of our Effective Portfolio’s aggregate annualized rent as of December 31, 2007. These tax indemnity obligations apply for initial periods ranging between seven and nine years from the date of our IPO, which occurred on June 27, 2003, with up to three one-year extension periods if Mr. Maguire and related entities maintain ownership of Operating Partnership units equal to 50% of the units received by them in the formation transactions. In addition, Mr. Maguire and certain entities owned or controlled by Mr. Maguire and entities controlled by certain former senior executives of our Predecessor have guaranteed $591.8 million of our debt as of December 31, 2007. We agreed to these provisions in order to assist Mr. Maguire and certain other contributors in preserving their tax position after their contribution of property interests to us. While we do not intend to sell any of these properties in transactions that would trigger these tax indemnifications obligations, if we were to trigger our tax indemnification obligations under these agreements, we would be required to pay damages for the resulting tax consequences to Mr. Maguire and other contributors, and we have acknowledged that a calculation of damages will not be based on the time value of money or the time remaining within the restricted period. In addition, we could involuntarily trigger our tax indemnification obligations under these provisions in the event of a condemnation of one of these properties. Potential losses may not be covered by insurance. We carry commercial liability, fire, extended coverage, earthquake, flood, pollution legal liability, boiler and machinery, earthquake sprinkler leakage, terrorism, business interruption and rental loss insurance covering all of the properties in our portfolio under a blanket policy that also covers certain properties owned by Mr. Maguire. We believe the policy specifications and insured limits are appropriate and adequate given the relative risk of loss, the cost of the coverage and industry practice. We do not carry insurance for generally uninsured losses such as loss from riots or war. Some of our policies, like those covering losses due to terrorism, earthquake and floods, are insured subject to limitations involving large deductibles or co-payments and policy limits, which may not be sufficient to cover such losses. Most of our properties are located in Southern California, an area especially subject to earthquakes. Six of the eight largest properties in our office portfolio—US Bank Tower, Gas Company Tower, Wells Fargo Tower, KPMG Tower, Two California Plaza and One California Plaza (one of our joint venture properties)—are all located within the Bunker Hill section of downtown Los Angeles. Together, these properties represented roughly 45.1% of our Effective Portfolio’s aggregate annualized rent as of December 31, 2007. Because these properties are located so closely together, an earthquake in downtown Los Angeles could materially damage, destroy or impair the use by tenants of all of these properties. While we presently carry earthquake insurance on our properties, the amount of our earthquake insurance coverage may not be sufficient to fully cover losses from earthquakes, particularly losses from an earthquake in downtown Los Angeles. In addition, we may discontinue earthquake, terrorism or other insurance on some or all of our properties in the future if the cost of premiums for any of these policies exceeds, in our judgment, the value of the coverage discounted for the risk of loss. 12 Table of Contents If we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds policy limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties as well as the anticipated future cash flows from those properties. In addition, if the damaged properties are subject to recourse indebtedness, we would continue to be liable for the indebtedness, even if these properties were irreparably damaged. In the event of a significant loss at one of the properties owned by Mr. Maguire covered by the blanket policy, the remaining insurance under this policy, if any, could be insufficient to adequately insure our existing properties covered by this policy. In such event, securing additional insurance, if possible, could be significantly more expensive than our current policy. Future terrorist attacks in the United States could harm the demand for and the value of our properties. Future terrorist attacks in the U.S., such as the attacks that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, and other acts of terrorism or war could harm the demand for and the value of our properties. Certain of our properties (including US Bank Tower) are well-known landmarks and may be perceived as more likely terrorist targets than similar, less recognizable properties, which could potentially reduce the demand for and value of these properties. A decrease in demand or value could make it difficult for us to renew or re-lease our properties at lease rates equal to or above historical rates or then-prevailing market rates. Terrorist attacks also could directly impact the value of our properties through damage, destruction, loss, or increased security costs, and the availability of insurance for such acts may be limited or may cost more. Six of the eight largest properties in our office portfolio—US Bank Tower, Gas Company Tower, Wells Fargo Tower, KPMG Tower, Two California Plaza and One California Plaza (one of our joint venture properties)—are all located within the Bunker Hill section of downtown Los Angeles. Together, these properties represented roughly 45.1% of our Effective Portfolio’s aggregate annualized rent as of December 31, 2007. Because these properties are located so closely together, a terrorist attack on any one of these properties, or in the downtown Los Angeles or Bunker Hill areas generally, could materially damage, destroy or impair the use by tenants of all of these properties. To the extent that our tenants are impacted by future attacks, their ability to continue to honor obligations under their existing leases with us could be adversely affected. Additionally, certain tenants have termination rights or purchase options in respect of certain casualties. If we receive casualty proceeds, we may not be able to reinvest such proceeds profitably or at all, and we may be forced to recognize taxable gain on the affected property. Failure to reinvest casualty proceeds in the affected property or properties could also trigger our tax indemnification obligations under our agreements with certain limited partners of our Operating Partnership with respect to sales of specified properties. Our debt level reduces cash available for distribution, including cash available to pay dividends on our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock, and may expose us to the risk of default under our debt agreements. As of December 31, 2007, our total consolidated indebtedness was approximately $5.0 billion. At December 31, 2007, we had a $130.0 million secured revolving credit facility under which we had no outstanding borrowings; however, approximately $10.3 million of this facility has been used to secure standby letters of credit, none of which have been drawn. The terms of our secured revolving credit facility include certain restrictions and covenants, which limit, among other things, the payment of dividends, the incurrence of additional indebtedness and liens and the disposition of assets. The terms also require compliance with financial ratios relating to interest coverage, fixed charge coverage and maximum leverage, the maximum amount of unsecured indebtedness and certain investment limitations. Payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave us with insufficient cash resources to operate our properties. We may not generate sufficient operating cash flow after debt service to pay the distributions currently contemplated and any such distributions may be financed by additional borrowings until we reduce our leverage level sufficiently to enable us to pay distributions from operating cash flow. In the event of default, our debt agreements may also prevent us from paying distributions necessary to maintain our REIT qualification. Our revolving credit facility also prohibits us from distributing to our stockholders in excess of the greater of (1) 95% of our “funds from operations” (as defined in our revolving credit facility) or (2) $1.60 per share during any four consecutive fiscal quarters, except as necessary to enable us 13 Table of Contents to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Our existing mortgage agreements contain lockbox and cash management provisions, which, under certain circumstances, limit our ability to utilize available cash flows at the specific property, including paying distributions. Our level of debt and the limitations imposed on us by our debt agreements could have significant adverse consequences including the following: • Our cash flow may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments; • We may be unable to borrow additional funds as needed or on favorable terms; • We may be unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or the refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms of our original indebtedness; • Because a portion of our debt bears interest at variable rates, increases in interest rates could increase our interest expense; • We may be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms; • We may default on our obligations and the lenders or mortgagees may foreclose on our properties that secure their loans and receive an assignment of rents and leases; • We may violate restrictive covenants in our loan agreements, which would entitle the lenders to accelerate our debt obligations; • Our default under any one of our mortgage loans with cross default provisions could result in a default on other indebtedness; and • Our agreement with Mr. Maguire and other contributors to use commercially reasonable efforts to maintain certain debt levels may limit our flexibility to refinance the debt encumbering our properties. If any one of these events were to occur, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders could be adversely affected. In addition, our debt agreements contain lockbox and cash management arrangements pursuant to which substantially all of the income generated by our properties is deposited directly into lockbox accounts and then swept into cash management accounts for the benefit of our various lenders and from which cash is distributed to us only after funding of improvement, leasing and maintenance reserves and the payment of debt service, insurance, taxes, operating expenses, and extraordinary capital expenditures and leasing expenses. As a result, we may be forced to draw funds from our revolving credit facility in order to pay dividends to our stockholders and maintain our qualification as a REIT. Furthermore, foreclosures could create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, a circumstance which could hinder our ability to meet the REIT distribution requirements imposed by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). Foreclosures could also trigger our tax indemnification obligations under the terms of our agreements with Mr. Maguire and others with respect to sales of certain properties obligating us to use commercially reasonable efforts to make certain levels of indebtedness available for them to guarantee. We depend on significant tenants. As of December 31, 2007, our 20 largest tenants represented approximately 34.9% of our Effective Portfolio’s total annualized rental revenues. Our rental revenues depend on entering into leases with and collecting rents from tenants. General and regional economic conditions, such as the current difficulties in the mortgage industry, may adversely affect our major tenants and potential tenants in our markets. These major tenants may experience a downturn in their business, which may weaken their financial condition, resulting in their failure to make timely rental payments and/or default under their leases. In the event of any tenant default, we may experience delays in enforcing our 14 Table of Contents rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant also may adversely affect the income produced by our properties. If any tenant becomes a debtor in a case under the United States Bankruptcy Code, we cannot evict the tenant solely because of the bankruptcy. In addition, the bankruptcy court might authorize the tenant to reject and terminate its lease with us. Our claim against the tenant for unpaid, future rent would be subject to a statutory cap that might be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease. Even so, our claim for unpaid rent would likely not be paid in full. The chance of a downturn in our tenants’ business or one or more tenant bankruptcies may be increased with respect to tenants that are in or rely on the mortgage industry. Our revenue and cash available for distribution to our stockholders could be materially adversely affected if any of our significant tenants were to become bankrupt or insolvent, or suffer a downturn in their business, or fail to renew their leases at all or renew on terms less favorable to us than their current terms. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect results of operations. We seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements that involve risk, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, and that such arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. We may be unable to complete acquisitions or successfully operate acquired properties. We continue to evaluate the market of available properties and may acquire office and other properties when strategic opportunities exist. Our ability to acquire properties on favorable terms and successfully operate them may be adversely affected by the following significant risks: • Our potential inability to acquire a desired property because of competition from other real estate investors with significant capital, including both publicly traded REITs and institutional investment funds; • Even if we are able to acquire a desired property, competition from other potential acquirers may significantly increase the purchase price; • Even if we enter into agreements for the acquisition of office properties, these agreements are subject to customary conditions to closing, including completion of due diligence investigations to our satisfaction; • We may be unable to finance the acquisition at all or on favorable terms; • We may spend more than budgeted amounts to make necessary improvements or renovations to acquired properties; • We may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and as a result our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected; • Market conditions may result in higher than expected vacancy rates and lower than expected rental rates; • We may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities such as liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination, claims by tenants, vendors or other persons dealing with the former owners of the properties and claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties; and 15 Table of Contents • In connection with certain potential acquisitions, we have entered into a right of first opportunity agreement with Macquarie Office Trust, whereby for any potential acquisition or development property prospect located in Southern California meeting certain investment criteria, we are obligated to offer Macquarie Office Trust the first opportunity to acquire a participating interest in that property. If we cannot finance property acquisitions on favorable terms, or operate acquired properties to meet our financial expectations, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders could be adversely affected. We may be unable to successfully complete and operate developed properties. We intend to develop and substantially renovate office and other properties. Our future development and construction activities involve the following significant risks: • We may be unable to obtain construction financing at all or on favorable terms; • We may be unable to obtain permanent financing at all or on advantageous terms if we finance development projects through construction loans; • We may not complete development projects on schedule or within budgeted amounts; and • We may encounter delays or refusals in obtaining all necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy, and other required governmental permits and authorizations; and occupancy rates and rents at newly developed or renovated properties may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and economic conditions, and may result in our investment not being profitable. While we intend to develop office properties primarily in the Southern California market, we may in the future develop properties for commercial, retail or other use and expand our business to other geographic regions where we expect the development of property to result in favorable risk-adjusted returns on our investment. Presently, we do not possess the same level of familiarity with development of other property types or other markets, which could adversely affect our ability to develop such properties successfully or at all or to achieve expected performance. We may encounter problems during development and construction activities. We are currently developing projects at Lantana Media Campus, 207 Goode Avenue, 17885 Von Karman Avenue and Mission City Corporate Center. We are currently planning development projects at 755 South Figueroa, Glendale Center, Stadium Tower II, Brea Financial Commons/Brea Corporate Place, Pacific Arts Plaza, Park Place, 2600 Michelson, 500 Orange Center, 605 City Parkway, City Plaza II, City Tower II and San Diego Tech Center. These construction projects, and others that we may undertake from time to time, are subject to significant development and construction risks, any of which could cause unanticipated cost increases and delays. These include the following: • Adverse weather that damages the project or causes delays; • Delays in obtaining or inability to obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals; • Changes to the plans or specifications; • Shortages of materials and skilled labor; • Increases in material and labor costs; • Engineering problems; • Labor disputes and work stoppages with contractors, subcontractors or others that are constructing the project; 16 Table of Contents • Environmental issues; • Shortages of qualified employees; • Fire, flooding and other natural disasters; • Expenditure of funds on, and the devotion of management time to, projects that may not be completed; and • Geological, construction, excavation, regulatory and equipment problems. We may not be able to complete the development of any projects we begin and, if completed, our development and construction activities may not be completed in a timely manner or within budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and prospects. Our performance and value are subject to risks associated with real estate assets and with the real estate industry. Our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders depends on our ability to generate revenues in excess of expenses, scheduled principal payments on debt and capital expenditure requirements. Events and conditions generally applicable to owners and operators of real property that are beyond our control may decrease cash available for distribution and the value of our properties. These events include: • Local oversupply, increased competition or reduction in demand for office space; • Inability to collect rent from tenants; • Vacancies or our inability to rent space on favorable terms; • Inability to finance property development and acquisitions on favorable terms; • Increased operating costs, including insurance premiums, utilities and real estate taxes; • Costs of complying with changes in governmental regulations; and • Changing submarket demographics. In addition, we are subject to risks generally incident to the ownership of real property, including changes in global, national, regional or local economic or real estate market conditions. For example, the current difficulties in the mortgage industry or a rise in interest rates could make it more difficult for us to lease space in or dispose of our properties. In addition, rising interest rates could also make alternative interest bearing and other investments more attractive and therefore potentially lower the relative value of our existing real estate investments. These conditions, or the public perception that any of these conditions may occur, could result in a general decline in rents or an increased incidence of defaults under existing leases, which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders. Real properties are illiquid investments and we may be unable to adjust our portfolio in response to changes in economic or other conditions or sell a property if or when we decide to do so. Real properties are illiquid investments and we may be unable to adjust our portfolio in response to changes in economic or other conditions. In addition, the real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand, that are beyond our control. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. The foregoing could mean that we may be unable to complete our planned $2.0 billion sale of strategically-identified properties in the near term or at all. 17 Table of Contents If we do not have adequate cash to fund our business, we will be adversely affected. Our business requires continued access to adequate cash to finance our operations, dividends, capital expenditures, indebtedness repayment obligations, development costs and property acquisition costs, if any. We expect to generate the cash to be used for those purposes primarily with internally generated cash flow, existing cash on hand, borrowings under our $130.0 million revolving credit facility, refinancing of existing indebtedness and the proceeds from sales of strategically-identified assets and potential joint ventures. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash for these purposes. For example, we may have difficulties with cash flow, particularly if we are unable to renew leases, lease vacant space or re-lease space as leases expire according to expectations, which may impact our ability to comply with the covenants of the revolving credit facility and to draw funds under that facility (and in turn our compliance with the 3161 Michelson construction loan). We may be unable to refinance existing indebtedness on favorable terms or at all, especially during periods of uncertainty in the credit markets. Based on market conditions, we may be unable to complete any joint venture transactions or sell non-strategic assets. Any of the foregoing would adversely affect our stockholders and could impact our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders. We face significant competition, which may decrease or prevent increases of the occupancy and rental rates of our properties. We compete with numerous developers, owners and operators of office and commercial real estate, many of whom own properties similar to ours in the same submarkets in which our properties are located. If our competitors offer space at rental rates below current market rates, or below the rental rates we currently charge our tenants, some of which are significantly above current market rates, we may lose potential tenants and may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge in order to retain tenants when their leases expire. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders may be adversely affected. We could default on leases for land on which some of our properties are located. We possess leasehold interests on the land at Two California Plaza that, including renewal options, expires in 2082. We also have a lease for the land at Brea Corporate Place that expires in 2083. As of December 31, 2007, we had 1,656,580 net rentable square feet of office space located on these parcels. If we default under the terms of these long-term leases, we may be liable for damages and lose our interest in these properties, including our options to purchase the land subject to the leases. We may be unable to renew leases, lease vacant space or re-lease space as leases expire. As of December 31, 2007, leases representing 8.4% and 6.4% of the square footage of the properties in our Effective Portfolio will expire in 2008 and 2009, respectively, and an additional 18.9% of the square footage of the properties in our Effective Portfolio was available. Above market rental rates at some of our properties will force us to renew or re-lease some expiring leases at lower rates. We cannot assure you that leases will be renewed or that our properties will be re-leased at net effective rental rates equal to or above their current net effective rental rates. If the rental rates for our properties decrease, our existing tenants do not renew their leases or we do not re-lease a significant portion of our available space and space for which leases will expire, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders would be adversely affected. Because we own a hotel property, we face the risks associated with the hospitality industry. We own the Westin® Pasadena Hotel in Pasadena, California and are susceptible to risks associated with the hospitality industry, including: • Competition for guests with other hotels, some of which may have greater marketing and financial resources than the manager of our hotel; 18 Table of Contents • Increases in operating costs from inflation and other factors that the manager of our hotel may not be able to offset through higher room rates; • Future terrorist attacks that could adversely affect the travel and tourism industries and decrease demand for our hotel; • Fluctuating and seasonal demands of business travelers and tourism; • General and local economic conditions that may affect demand for travel in general; and • Potential oversupply of hotel rooms resulting from excessive new development. If our hotel does not generate sufficient revenues, our financial position, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders may be adversely affected. We could incur significant costs related to government regulation and private litigation over environmental matters. Under various laws relating to the protection of the environment, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for contamination resulting from the presence or discharge of hazardous or toxic substances at that property, and may be required to investigate and clean up such contamination at that property or emanating from that property. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the contaminants, and the liability may be joint and several. The presence of contamination or the failure to remedy contamination in our properties may expose us to third-party liability or adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or develop the real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. These environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance and removal of ACBM, and may impose fines and penalties for failure to comply with these requirements or expose us to third-party liability. Some of our properties contain ACBM and we could be liable for such fines or penalties. We cannot assure our stockholders that costs of future environmental compliance will not affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders or those such costs or other remedial measures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results of operations. None of the recent site assessments revealed any past or present environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results of operations. Some of the properties in our portfolio contain, or may have contained, or are adjacent to or near other properties that have contained or currently contain, underground storage tanks for the storage of petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances. If hazardous or toxic substances were released from these tanks, we could incur significant costs or be liable to third parties with respect to the releases. From time to time, the EPA designates certain sites affected by hazardous substances as “Superfund” sites pursuant to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act. The EPA identifies parties who are considered to be potentially responsible for the hazardous substances at Superfund sites and makes them liable for the costs of responding to the hazardous substances. The parcel of land on which the Glendale Center is located lies within a large Superfund site, and we could be named as a potentially responsible party with respect to that site. Existing conditions at some of our properties may expose us to liability related to environmental matters. Independent environmental consultants have conducted Phase I or other environmental site assessments on all of the properties in our existing portfolio. Site assessments are intended to discover and evaluate information regarding the environmental condition of the surveyed property and surrounding properties. These assessments do not generally include soil samplings, subsurface investigations or an asbestos survey. None of the site 19 Table of Contents assessments revealed any past or present environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results of operations. However, the assessments may have failed to reveal all environmental conditions, liabilities or compliance concerns. Material environmental conditions, liabilities, or compliance concerns may have arisen after the review was completed or may arise in the future and future laws, ordinances or regulations may impose material additional environmental liability. We cannot assure our stockholders that costs of future environmental compliance will not affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders or those such costs or other remedial measures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results of operations. Potential environmental liabilities may exceed our environmental insurance coverage limits. We carry environmental insurance to cover likely and reasonably anticipated potential environmental liability associated with above-ground and underground storage tanks at all of our properties where such tanks are located. While we believe this coverage is sufficient to protect us against likely environmental risks, we cannot assure you that our insurance coverage will be sufficient or that our liability, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders. We may incur significant costs complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act and similar laws. Under the ADA, all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Although we believe that the properties in our portfolio substantially comply with present requirements of the ADA and we continue to make capital expenditures to address the requirements of the ADA, we have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance. If one or more of our properties is not in compliance with the ADA, then we would be required to incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance. Additional federal, state and local laws also may require modifications to our properties, or restrict our ability to renovate our properties. We cannot predict the ultimate amount of the cost of compliance with the ADA or other legislation. If we incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA and any other legislation, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders could be adversely affected. We may incur significant costs complying with other regulations. The properties in our portfolio are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. If we fail to comply with these various requirements, we might incur governmental fines or private damage awards. We believe that the properties in our portfolio are currently in material compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements. However, we do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether future requirements will require us to make significant unanticipated expenditures that will adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, the per share trading price of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders. Our exploration of strategic alternatives may adversely affect us. On December 11, 2007, we announced that we formed a Special Committee comprised solely of independent directors to focus on strategic alternatives for achieving stockholder value, including a possible sale of our company. We cannot assure you that any transaction will be proposed by any party or found acceptable. The Special Committee’s ability to complete a transaction, if the Special Committee decides to pursue such a strategy, will depend on numerous factors, some of which are outside the Special Committee’s control. There are various risks and uncertainties related to our strategic alternatives review process, including: • The process may disrupt operations and distract management; 20 Table of Contents • We may not be able to successfully achieve the benefits of any strategic alternative undertaken by us; • The process may be time consuming and expensive and may result in the loss of business opportunities; • Regardless of whether the current process results in any transaction, we may be subject to a related proxy contest and/or stockholder litigation; • Perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in increased difficulties, including difficulties in: (1) recruiting and retaining employees, particularly senior management, (2) entering into deals with potential joint venture partners, (3) securing new loans or refinancing existing loans and (4) leasing new space or renewing existing leases; and • The trading prices of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock may be highly volatile during the process, including following any further public announcements regarding the process. The foregoing could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, the per share trading price of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders. We may face a proxy contest and/or stockholder litigation. In the ordinary course of business or in connection with a particular set of facts, we may be subject to a proxy contest and/or stockholder litigation. If we were to engage in a proxy contest and/or stockholder litigation, the process may prove to be costly, disrupt our operations and distract management. Our growth depends on external sources of capital that are outside of our control. In order to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we are required under the Code to annually distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gain. In addition, we will be subject to federal and state income tax at regular corporate rates to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income, including any net capital gains. Because of these distribution requirements, we may not be able to fund future capital needs, including any necessary acquisition financing, from operating cash flow. Consequently, we rely on third-party sources to fund our capital needs. We may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all. Any additional debt we incur will increase our leverage. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends, in part, on: • General market conditions; • The market’s perception of our growth potential; • Our current debt levels; • Our current and expected future earnings; • Our cash flow and cash distributions; and • The market price per share of our capital stock. If we cannot obtain capital from third-party sources, we may not be able to acquire or develop properties when strategic opportunities exist, satisfy our debt service obligations or pay the cash dividends to our stockholders necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT. Joint venture investments, including our joint venture with Macquarie Office Trust, could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on co-venturers’ financial condition and disputes between us and our co-venturers. We are currently partners with Macquarie Office Trust and DH Von Karman, LLC in joint ventures. We may also co-invest in the future with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures or other entities, acquiring 21 Table of Contents non-controlling interests in or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of a property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. In the case of our existing joint ventures and any additional joint ventures, we would not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the property, partnership, joint venture or other entities. Additionally we have a right of first opportunity agreement with Macquarie Office Trust, which obligates us to offer Macquarie Office Trust the first opportunity to invest in any potential acquisition property. Investments in partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that partners or co-venturers might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Partners or co-venturers may have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Such investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions, such as a sale, because neither we nor the partner or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. Impasses could also result in either the sale of a building or buildings, the sale of our joint venture interest or the purchase of Macquarie Office Trust’s interest. Disputes between us and partners or co-venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and/or directors from focusing their time and effort on our business. Consequently, actions by or disputes with partners or co-venturers might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. In addition, we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners or co-venturers. We will seek to maintain sufficient control of such entities to permit them to achieve our business objectives. A recently completed acquisition of office and development real property subjects us to various risks which could adversely affect our operating results. On April 24, 2007, we purchased 24 properties and 11 developments sites from Blackstone Real Estate Advisors for $2.875 billion. During 2007, we disposed of eight properties and three development sites and contributed one property to a joint venture that were acquired as part of this transaction. We purchased the properties on an as is, where is basis and with all faults and defects, without any representations or warranties, except as expressly set forth in the Purchase Agreement. The properties are located in Los Angeles and Orange County, California and as of the date of purchase totaled approximately 5.9 million rentable square feet and developable land now estimated to support approximately 3.0 million square feet of improvements. Risks associated with the acquisition of the properties include: • We may be unable to find buyers for properties that have been determined by management to be non-core properties; and • In addition, because we have released the seller from all claims related to the properties to the extent provided by law, we may be subject to unknown future liabilities without any recourse. Each of the above instances may potentially have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flow, the per share trading price of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders. Conflicts of interest exist with holders of units in our Operating Partnership. We may pursue less vigorous enforcement of terms of certain agreements because of conflicts of interest with one of our officers. Mr. Maguire has entered into employment and non-competition agreements with us pursuant to which he has agreed, among other things, not to engage in certain business activities in competition with us and pursuant to which he will devote substantially full-time attention to our affairs. We have also entered into property management and development agreements with respect to certain properties owned by Mr. Maguire. None of these employment, non-competition, and management and development agreements was negotiated on an arm’s-length basis. We may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under these employment, non-competition, management and development agreements because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with the individuals involved. 22 Table of Contents Tax consequences upon sale or refinancing. Some holders of Operating Partnership units, including Mr. Maguire (and certain related entities), may suffer different and more adverse tax consequences than holders of our common stock or Series A Preferred Stock upon the sale or refinancing of the properties owned by our Operating Partnership, and therefore these holders may have different objectives regarding the appropriate pricing, timing and other material terms of any sale or refinancing of certain properties. Outside activities of management. Mr. Maguire has substantial outside business interests, including Maguire Aviation, his controlling interests in the Solana property in Texas, a senior housing project located at 740 South Olive Street and a parking structure located at 17th and Grand Avenue both in the LACBD, 1733 Ocean Avenue, Western Asset Plaza, Water’s Edge I and II and certain other passive real estate investments, and Master Investments, LLC, an entity that is a potential competitor. Although Mr. Maguire is party to an employment agreement, which requires that he devote substantially full-time attention to our business and affairs, this agreement also permits Mr. Maguire to devote time to his outside business interests consistent with his past practice prior to our IPO, and we have no assurance that Mr. Maguire will continue to devote any specific portion of his time to us. As a result, these outside business interests could interfere with Mr. Maguire’s ability to devote time to our business and affairs. Our chairman and chief executive officer has substantial influence over our affairs. As of December 31, 2007, Mr. Maguire beneficially owns common stock and Operating Partnership units redeemable for cash or shares of our common stock, at our option, totaling an aggregate of 9,042,036 shares, including 52,632 Operating Partnership units beneficially owned through Maguire Partners—Master Investments, LLC, an entity in which Mr. Maguire owns a 55% interest, representing a total of approximately 16.60% of the total outstanding shares of our common stock and outstanding Operating Partnership Units. As of December 31, 2007, Mr. Maguire had pledged 2,040,039 of his Operating Partnership units and 1,567,810 shares of his common stock to lenders as collateral for personal loans. Consequently, Mr. Maguire has substantial influence on us and could exercise his influence in a manner that is not in the best interests of our stockholders. Pursuant to the partnership agreement of our Operating Partnership, we may not engage in termination transactions, such as a tender offer, merger or sale of substantially all of our assets, without meeting certain criteria with respect to the consideration to be received by the limited partners and without the consent of partners (including us) holding 50% of all partnership interests. Failure to qualify as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences to us and the value of our stock. We operate in a manner that is intended to allow us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes under the Code. We have not requested and do not plan to request a ruling from the IRS that we qualify as a REIT, and the statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are not binding on the IRS or any court. If we lose our REIT status, we will face serious tax consequences that would substantially reduce the funds available for distribution to our stockholders for each of the years involved because: (i) we would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to stockholders in computing our taxable income and we would be subject to federal and state income tax at regular corporate rates; (ii) we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and (iii) unless we are entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will not be required to make distributions to stockholders, and all distributions to stockholders will be subject to tax as regular corporate dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and would adversely affect the value of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The complexity of these provisions and of the applicable U.S. Treasury Department regulations that have been promulgated under the Code is greater in the case of a REIT that, like us, holds its assets through a partnership. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. To qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy a number of asset, income, 23 Table of Contents organizational, distribution, stock ownership and other requirements. Also, we must make distributions to our stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding capital gains. In addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may adversely affect our investors, our ability to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes or the desirability of an investment in a REIT relative to other investments. Even if we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we may be subject to some federal, state and local taxes on our income or property and, in certain cases, a 100% penalty tax in the event we sell property as a dealer or if our services company enters into agreements with us or our tenants on a basis that is determined to be other than an arm’s-length basis. To maintain our REIT status, we may be forced to borrow funds on a short-term basis during unfavorable market conditions. To qualify as a REIT, we generally must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income each year, excluding capital gains, and we will be subject to regular corporate income taxes to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income each year. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. In order to maintain our REIT status and avoid the payment of income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the REIT distribution requirements even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. These short-term borrowing needs could result from differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. Our success depends on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed. We depend on the efforts of key personnel, particularly Mr. Maguire. Among the reasons that Mr. Maguire is important to our success is that he has a national industry reputation that attracts business and investment opportunities and assists us in negotiations with lenders, existing and potential tenants and industry personnel. If we lost his services, our relationships with such personnel could diminish. In addition, Mr. Maguire is 72 years old and, although he has informed us that he does not currently plan to retire, his continued service to us cannot be guaranteed. Many of our other senior executives also have strong regional industry reputations, which aid us in identifying opportunities, having opportunities brought to us, and negotiating with tenants and build-to-suit prospects. While we believe that we could find replacements for all of these key personnel, the loss of their services could materially and adversely affect our operations because of diminished relationships with lenders, existing and prospective tenants and industry personnel. Our charter and Maryland law contain provisions that may delay, defer, or prevent transactions that may be beneficial to the holders of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock. Our charter contains a 9.8% ownership limit. Our Articles of Amendment and Restatement (our “charter”), subject to certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT and to limit any person to actual or constructive ownership of no more than 9.8% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt a proposed transferee from the ownership limit. However, our board of directors may not grant an exemption from the ownership limit to any proposed transferee whose ownership, direct or indirect, in excess of 9.8% of the value of our outstanding shares of our common stock could jeopardize our status as a REIT. These restrictions on transferability and ownership will not apply if our board of directors determines that it is no longer in our best interests to attempt to qualify, or to continue to qualify, as a REIT. The ownership limit may delay or impede a transaction or a change of control that might be in the best interest of our stockholders. We could authorize and issue stock without stockholder approval. Our charter authorizes our board of directors to amend the charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of 24 Table of Contents shares of stock of any class or series that we have the authority to issue, to issue authorized but unissued shares of our common stock or Series A Preferred Stock and to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of our common stock or Series A Preferred Stock and to set the preferences, rights and other terms of such classified or unclassified shares. Although our board of directors has no such intention at the present time, it could establish another series of stock that could, depending on the terms of such series, delay, defer or prevent a transaction that might be in the best interest of our stockholders. Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes in control. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law (“MGCL”), may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could be in the best interest of our stockholders, including: (i) “business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our outstanding voting shares or any affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our then outstanding voting shares) or an affiliate thereof for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter imposes special appraisal rights and special stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and (ii) “control share” provisions that provide that “control shares” of our company (defined as shares that, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares. We have opted out of these provisions of the MGCL, in the case of the business combination provisions of the MGCL by resolution of our board of directors, and in the case of the control share provisions of the MGCL pursuant to a provision in our bylaws. However, our board of directors may by resolution elect to opt in to the business combination provisions of the MGCL and we may, by amendment to our bylaws, opt in to the control share provisions of the MGCL in the future. In addition, provided that we have a class of equity securities registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and at least three independent directors, Subtitle 8 of Title 3 of the MGCL permits us to elect to be subject, by provision in our charter or bylaws or a resolution of our board of directors and notwithstanding any contrary provision in the charter or bylaws, to certain provisions, including a classified board and a requirement that a vacancy on the board be filled only by the remaining directors and for the remainder of the full term of the class of directors in which the vacancy occurred. Our charter, bylaws, the partnership agreement and Maryland law also contain other provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Market interest rates and other factors may affect the value of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock. One of the factors influences the price of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock is the dividend yield on our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock relative to market interest rates. An increase in market interest rates, which are currently at low levels relative to historical rates, could cause the market price of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock to go down. The trading price of shares of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock would also depend on many other factors, which may change from time to time, including: • Prevailing interest rates; • The market for similar securities; • The attractiveness of REIT securities in comparison to the securities of other companies, taking into account, among other things, the higher tax rates imposed on dividends paid by REITs; • Government action or regulation; 25 Table of Contents • General economic conditions; and • Our financial condition, performance and prospects. Our revolving credit facility prohibits us from redeeming our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock and may limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock. Our revolving credit facility prohibits us from redeeming or otherwise repurchasing any shares of our stock, including the common stock and Series A Preferred Stock. Our revolving credit facility also prohibits us from distributing to our stockholders more than 95% of our “funds from operations” (as defined in our revolving credit facility) during any four consecutive fiscal quarters, except as necessary to enable us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. As a result, if we do not generate sufficient funds from operations (as defined in our revolving credit facility) during the twelve months preceding any common stock and Series A Preferred Stock dividend payment date, we would not be able to pay all or a portion of the accumulated dividends payable to holders of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock on such payment date without causing a default under our revolving credit facility. In the event of a default under our revolving credit facility, we would be unable to borrow under our revolving credit facility and any amounts we have borrowed thereunder could become due and payable. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 