Item 1A. Risk Factors. Factors That May Affect Future Results (Cautionary Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) Certain written and oral statements made or incorporated by reference from time to time by us or our representatives in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, other filings or reports filed with the SEC, press releases, conferences, or otherwise, are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (set forth in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Exchange Act). In particular, statements relating to our capital resources, portfolio performance and results of operations contain forward-looking statements. Furthermore, all of the statements regarding future financial performance (including anticipated funds from operations (“FFO”), market conditions and demographics) are forward-looking statements. We are including this cautionary statement to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for any such forward-looking statements. We caution investors that any forward-looking statements presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or that management may make orally or in writing from time to time, are based on management’s beliefs and assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. When used, the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “might,” “plan,” “estimate,” “project,” “should,” “will,” “result” and similar expressions that do not relate solely to historical matters are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions and may be affected by known and unknown risks, trends, uncertainties and factors that are beyond our control. Should one or more of 5 Table of Contents these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected. We expressly disclaim any responsibility to update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Accordingly, investors should use caution in relying on past forward-looking statements, which were based on results and trends at the time they were made, to anticipate future results or trends. Some of the risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results, performance, liquidity or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: • The negative impact of the current credit crisis and global economic slowdown; • Adverse economic or real estate developments in Southern California, particularly in the LACBD or Orange County region; • Difficulties in disposing of identified properties at attractive prices or at all; • Our failure to obtain additional capital or refinance debt maturities; • Our dependence on significant tenants, many of which are in industries that have been severely impacted by the current credit crisis and global economic slowdown; • Defaults on or non-renewal of leases by tenants; • Decreased rental rates or failure to achieve occupancy targets; • Our failure to reduce our level of indebtedness; • Decreases in the market value of our properties; • Future terrorist attacks in the U.S.; • Increased interest rates and operating costs; • Potential loss of key personnel; • Our failure to maintain our status as a REIT; • Our failure to successfully operate acquired properties and operations; • Difficulty in operating the properties owned through our joint venture; • Our failure to successfully develop or redevelop properties; • Environmental uncertainties and risks related to natural disasters; and • Changes in real estate and zoning laws and increases in real property tax rates. Set forth below are some (but not all) of the factors that could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all of such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all of such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. We believe the following risks are material to our stockholders. You should carefully consider the following factors in evaluating our company, our properties and our business. The occurrence of any of the following risks might cause our stockholders to lose all or part of their investment. For purposes of this section, the term “stockholders” means the holders of shares of our common stock and of our Series A Preferred Stock. 6 Table of Contents Our senior management’s focus on refinancing alternatives and capital raising opportunities may adversely affect us. As discussed throughout this report, we are currently exploring many refinancing alternatives and capital raising opportunities. This focus could adversely affect our operations in a number of ways, including the risks that such activities could, among other things: • Disrupt operations and distract management; • Fail to successfully achieve their expected benefits; • Be time consuming and expensive and result in the loss of business opportunities; • Subject us to litigation; • Result in increased difficulties due to uncertainties regarding our future operations; and • Cause the trading price of our common stock to further decrease and/or continue to be highly volatile. Recent U.S. economic conditions have been uncertain and challenging. Recent U.S. economic conditions have been uncertain and challenging, particularly in the credit and financial markets. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of inflation, energy costs and geopolitical issues have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for the U.S. economy. In the second half of 2008, added concerns fueled by various federal government interventions in the U.S. credit markets led to increased market uncertainty and instability in both U.S. and international capital and credit markets. These conditions, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, contributed to unprecedented volatility in 2008 and in the first quarter of 2009. As a result of these market conditions, the cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. Concerns about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases cease to provide, funding to borrowers. Continued turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economies may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our tenants. If these market conditions continue or deteriorate further, they may limit our ability, and the ability of our tenants, to timely replace maturing liabilities, and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs, resulting in an adverse effect on our, and our tenants’, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that the recent actions of the U.S. government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies, or the market’s response to these actions, will achieve its intended effect, and our business may not benefit from these or any future actions. In response to the financial issues affecting the banking system and financial markets, and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) was enacted. The EESA provides the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury with the authority to purchase from financial institutions up to $700 billion of residential or commercial mortgages and any securities, obligations, or other instruments that are based on or related to such mortgages, pursuant to the Troubled Asset Relief Program, now renamed the Financial Stability Plan, provided that certain conditions are met. In addition, the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury has the authority to establish a program to guarantee, upon request from a financial institution, the timely payment of principal and interest on these financial assets. There can be no assurance that the EESA will have a beneficial impact on the financial markets, particularly given the current extreme level of volatility. Moreover, the market may not respond favorably to the Financial Stability Plan, it may not function as intended or our business may not receive the anticipated positive impact 7 Table of Contents from the legislation. In addition to the Financial Stability Plan, the U.S. Government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking other actions to address the financial crisis. We cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur or what impact, if any, such actions could have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Deteriorating economic conditions may have an adverse effect on our revenue and available cash, and may also impact our ability to sell certain properties if or when we decide to do so. Our business requires continued access to adequate cash to finance our operations, dividends, capital expenditures, indebtedness repayment obligations and development costs. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash for these purposes. Given the current market conditions, we believe there is a significantly increased risk that rental revenue generated from our tenants will decrease due to their deteriorating ability to make rent payments and the increasing risk of tenant bankruptcies. In addition to the direct adverse effect of tenant failures on our operations, these events also negatively affect our ability to attract and maintain rent levels for new tenants. Further, the actual or perceived adverse impact of recent economic conditions on certain industries in which many of our tenants operate, including the mortgage, financial, insurance and professional services industries, may also negatively impact our revenue and our ability to complete any sale of our properties. These circumstances negatively affect our revenue and available cash, and also decrease the value of our properties, reducing the likelihood that we would be able to sell such properties, if or when we decide to do so, on attractive terms or at all. Inflation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Should inflation increase in the future, we may experience: • Difficulty in replacing or renewing expiring leases; and/or • An inability to receive reimbursement from our tenants for their share of certain operating expenses, including common area maintenance, real estate taxes and insurance. Inflation also poses a potential threat to us due to the probability of future increases in interest rates. Such increases would adversely impact us due to our outstanding variable-rate debt as well as result in higher interest rates on new fixed-rate debt. Real properties are illiquid investments and we may be unable to adjust our portfolio in response to changes in economic or other conditions or sell properties if or when we decide to do so. Real properties are illiquid investments and we may be unable to adjust our portfolio in response to changes in economic or other conditions. In addition, the real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand, that are beyond our control. Particularly in light of the current economic conditions, we cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective buyer would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing buyer and to close the sale of a property. In addition, the availability of financing and current market conditions may delay or prevent the closing of a sale of a property even if the price and other terms of the transaction were acceptable to us. The foregoing could mean that we may be unable to complete the sale of identified properties in the near term or at all. Our debt covenants restrict our ability to enter into certain transactions if or when we decide to do so. Certain of our material debt obligations require us to comply with financial and other covenants, including, but not limited to, net worth and liquidity covenants, due on sale clauses, change in control restrictions, listing 8 Table of Contents requirements and other financial requirements. Some or all of these covenants could prevent or delay our ability to enter into certain transactions that may be in the best interests of our stockholders, including our ability to: • Sell identified properties or portfolios of properties; • Engage in a change in control of the Company; • Merge with or into another company; or • Sell all or substantially all of our assets. Specifically, some or all of these covenants may delay or prevent a change in control of the Company, even if a change in control might be beneficial to our stockholders, deter tender offers that may be beneficial to our stockholders, or limit stockholders’ opportunity to receive a potential premium for their shares. Absent any waiver of, or modification to, such covenants or the refinancing of the indebtedness containing such covenants, our ability to structure and consummate a transaction is restricted by our need to remain in compliance with such covenants. We may not be able to refinance or repay our substantial indebtedness, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and common stock price. We have a substantial amount of debt that we may not be able to refinance or repay. As of December 31, 2008, we have approximately $260 million of debt maturing in 2009. Due to continued weakness in the credit markets, there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance this debt on acceptable terms or at all. Our ability to successfully refinance our debt is negatively affected by the real or perceived decline in the value of our properties based on deteriorating economic conditions. Our substantial indebtedness also requires us to use a material portion of our cash flow to service principal and interest on our debt, which limits the cash flow available for other business expenses or opportunities. Also, our agreement with Mr. Maguire and other contributors to use commercially reasonable efforts to maintain certain debt levels may limit our flexibility to refinance the debt encumbering our properties. We may not have the cash necessary to repay our debt as it matures. Therefore, failure to refinance or extend our debt as it comes due, or a failure to satisfy the conditions and requirements of such debt, could result in an event of default that could potentially allow lenders to accelerate such debt. If our debt is accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay such debt in full, and our available cash flow may not be adequate to maintain our current operations. If we are unable to refinance or repay our debt as it comes due and maintain sufficient cash flow, our business, financial condition, results of operations and common stock price will be materially and adversely affected, and we may be required to file for bankruptcy protection. Furthermore, even if we are able to obtain extensions on our existing debt, such extensions may include operational and financial covenants significantly more restrictive than our current debt covenants. Any such extensions will also require us to pay certain fees to, and expenses of, our lenders. These fees and cash flow restrictions will affect our ability of fund our ongoing operations from our operating cash flows, as discussed in this report. Our substantial indebtedness adversely affects our financial health and operating flexibility. As of December 31, 2008, our total consolidated indebtedness was approximately $4.9 billion. Payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave us with insufficient cash resources to operate our properties. We may not generate sufficient cash flow after debt service to pay distributions on our common stock and/or Series A Preferred Stock. In the event of default, our debt agreements may also prevent us from paying distributions necessary to maintain our REIT qualification. Our existing mortgage agreements contain lockbox and cash management provisions, which, under certain circumstances, limit our ability to utilize available cash flows at the specific property, including paying distributions. Our level of debt and the limitations imposed on us 9 Table of Contents by our debt agreements could have significant adverse consequences to us and the value of our common stock, regardless of our ability to refinance or extend our debt, including: • Limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, execution of our business plan or other purposes; • Limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business or to pay dividends because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to service our debt; • Increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • Limiting our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures and adverse changes in government regulation; • Limiting our ability to fund capital expenditures, tenant improvements and leasing commissions; • Limiting our ability or increasing the costs to refinance our indebtedness; and • Limiting our ability to enter into marketing and hedging transactions by reducing the number of counterparties with whom we can enter into such transactions as well as the volume of those transactions. The lockbox and cash management arrangements contained in our debt agreements provide that substantially all of the income generated by our properties is deposited directly into lockbox accounts and then swept into cash management accounts for the benefit of our various lenders. Cash is distributed to us only after funding of improvement, leasing and maintenance reserves and the payment of debt service, insurance, taxes, operating expenses, and extraordinary capital expenditures and leasing expenses. Furthermore, foreclosures could create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, a circumstance which could hinder our ability to meet the REIT distribution requirements imposed by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). Foreclosures could also trigger our tax indemnification obligations under the terms of our agreements with Nelson C. Rising, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Maguire and others with respect to sales of certain properties, obligating us to use commercially reasonable efforts to make certain levels of indebtedness available for them to guarantee. Given the restrictions in our debt covenants and in any loan extensions we may obtain in the future, we may be significantly limited in our operating and financial flexibility and may be limited in our ability to respond to changes in our business or competitive activities. If our common stock is delisted from the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”), there could be a negative effect on our business that could impact our financial condition, results of operations and ability to service our debt obligations. Our lowered stock price increases the risk that our stock will be delisted from the NYSE. The delisting of our common stock or threat thereof could have adverse effects by, among other things: • Reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock; • Reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, thereby further restricting our ability to obtain equity financing; • Damaging our reputation with current or potential tenants, lenders, vendors and other third parties; • Potentially giving rise to lender consent rights with respect to future change in control arrangements, property dispositions and certain other transactions under several of our debt agreements; • Reducing our ability to retain, attract and motivate our directors, officers and employees; and • Requiring the time and attention of our management and key employees on this issue, diverting attention from other responsibilities. 10 Table of Contents Our stock price may continue to be adversely affected. The price of our common stock has decreased materially and will continue to be affected by the factors described under this Item 1A. “Risk Factors.” The price at which our common stock will trade may be volatile and may fluctuate due to factors such as: • Our financial condition and performance, including the risk of insolvency; • Our quarterly and annual operating results; • Variations between our actual results and analyst and investor expectations or changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; • The performance and prospects of our industry; • The depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; • Concentration of ownership; • Short sales of our stock triggered by hedging activities, including the purchase of credit default swaps by certain of our lenders; • U.S. and international economic conditions; • The extent of institutional investors’ interest in us; • The reputation of REITs generally and the attractiveness of their equity securities in comparison to other equity securities; and • General market volatility, conditions and trends. Fluctuations may be unrelated to or disproportionate to our financial performance. These fluctuations may result in a material decline in the trading price of our common stock. Most of our properties depend upon the Southern California economy and the demand for office space. Most of our properties are located in Los Angeles County, Orange County and San Diego County, California, and many of them are concentrated in the LACBD, which exposes us to greater economic risks than if we owned properties in several geographic regions. Moreover, because our portfolio of properties consists primarily of office buildings, a decrease in the demand for office space, and Class A office space in particular, may have a greater adverse effect on our business and financial condition than if we owned a more diversified real estate portfolio. We are susceptible to adverse developments in the Southern California region (such as business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns (such as the current significant downturns in the mortgage and finance industries), relocations of businesses, changing demographics, increased telecommuting, terrorist targeting of high-rise structures, infrastructure quality, California state budgetary constraints and priorities (particularly during challenging financial times like the present), increases in real estate and other taxes, costs of complying with government regulations or increased regulation and other factors) and the national and Southern California regional office space market (such as oversupply of, reduced demand for or decline in property values in such office space). The State of California is also generally regarded as more litigious and more highly regulated and taxed than many states, which may reduce demand for office space in California. Any adverse economic or real estate developments in the Southern California region, or any decrease in demand for office space resulting from California’s regulatory environment, business climate or energy or fiscal problems, could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, the per share trading price of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders. We cannot assure you of the growth of the Southern California economy or the national economy or our future growth rate. 11 Table of Contents We depend on significant tenants. As of December 31, 2008, our 20 largest tenants represented approximately 35.6% of our Effective Portfolio’s total annualized rental revenue. Our rental revenue depends on entering into leases with and collecting rents from tenants. General and regional economic conditions, such as the current challenging economic climate described above, may adversely affect our major tenants and potential tenants in our markets. Some of our tenants are in the mortgage, financial, insurance and professional services industries and these industries have been severely impacted by the current economic climate. Many of our major tenants have experienced or may experience a notable business downturn, weakening their financial condition, and in turn, resulting in their failure to make timely rental payments and/or a default under their leases. In many cases, we have made substantial up-front investments in the applicable leases, through tenant improvement allowances and other concessions, as well as typical transaction costs (including professional fees and commissions). In the event of any tenant default, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant also may adversely affect the income produced by our properties. If any tenant becomes a debtor in a case under the United States Bankruptcy Code, we cannot evict the tenant solely because of the bankruptcy. In addition, the bankruptcy court might authorize the tenant to reject and terminate their lease with us. Our claim against the tenant for unpaid future rent would be subject to a statutory cap that might be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease. Even so, our claim for unpaid rent would likely not be paid in full. There have recently been a number of high profile bank failures, and several of our banking tenants faced distress in 2008 and continue to face distress in 2009. Failed banks or banks involved in government-facilitated sales are subject to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation’s (“FDIC”) statutory authority and receivership process. The FDIC has receivership powers that are substantially broader than those of a bankruptcy trustee. In dealing with the FDIC in any repudiation of a lease, the Company as landlord is likely in a less favorable position than with a debtor in a bankruptcy proceeding. Many of the creditor protections that exist in a bankruptcy proceeding do not exist in a FDIC receivership. Our revenue and cash flow could be materially adversely affected if any of our significant tenants were to become bankrupt or insolvent, or suffer a downturn in their business, default under their leases or fail to renew their leases at all or renew on terms less favorable to us than their current terms. Tax indemnification obligations in the event that we sell certain properties could limit our operating flexibility. At the time of our initial public offering, we agreed to indemnify Maguire Partners – Master Investments, LLC (“Master Investments”), an entity in which Mr. Rising has a minority interest, against adverse tax consequences to them in the event that our Operating Partnership directly or indirectly sells, exchanges or otherwise disposes (including by way of merger, sale of assets or otherwise) of any portion of its interests, in a taxable transaction. This tax indemnification covers five of the office properties in our portfolio, which represented 37.8% of our Effective Portfolio’s aggregate annualized rent as of December 31, 2008. These obligations apply for periods of up to 12 years from the date that these properties were contributed to our Operating Partnership at the time of our initial public offering in June 2003 (the “lock-out period”). In connection with the tax indemnification agreement, Master Investments has also guaranteed a portion of our mortgage loans, which totals $65.0 million as of December 31, 2008. Also at the time of our initial public offering, we entered into a tax indemnification agreement with Mr. Maguire. Under this agreement, we agreed not to dispose of five of the office properties in our portfolio for periods of up to 12 years from the date these properties were contributed to our Operating Partnership at the time 12 Table of Contents of our initial public offering as long as certain conditions under Mr. Maguire’s contribution agreement were met. Mr. Maguire’s separation agreement modified his tax indemnification agreement. As modified, for purposes of determining whether Mr. Maguire and related entities maintain ownership of Operating Partnership units equal to 50% of the units received by them in the formation transactions (which is a condition to the continuation of the lock-out period to its maximum length), shares of our common stock received by Mr. Maguire in exchange for Operating Partnership units in accordance with Section 8.6B of the Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Maguire Properties, L.P., as amended, shall be treated as Operating Partnership units received in the formation transactions. In addition, Mr. Maguire and certain entities owned or controlled by Mr. Maguire and entities controlled by certain former senior executives of the Maguire Properties predecessor have guaranteed $591.8 million of our mortgage loans as of December 31, 2008. We agreed to these provisions in order to assist Mr. Rising, Mr. Maguire and certain other contributors in preserving their tax position after their contribution of property interests to us. While we do not intend to sell any of these properties in transactions that would trigger these tax indemnifications obligations, if we were to trigger our tax indemnification obligations under these agreements, we would be required to pay damages for the resulting tax consequences to Mr. Rising, Mr. Maguire and other contributors, and we have acknowledged that a calculation of damages in the event these tax indemnification obligations are triggered will not be based on the time value of money nor the time remaining within the lock-out period, but will also give consideration to the tax effect of the disposition on the contributor or contributors. In addition, we could involuntarily trigger our tax indemnification obligations under these provisions in the event of a condemnation of one of these properties. The tax indemnification obligations may serve to prevent the sale of certain assets that might otherwise provide valuable liquidity alternatives to us. Potential losses may not be covered by insurance. We carry commercial liability, fire, extended coverage, earthquake, flood, pollution legal liability, boiler and machinery, earthquake sprinkler leakage, terrorism, business interruption and rental loss insurance covering all of the properties in our portfolio under a blanket policy. We believe the policy specifications and insured limits are appropriate and adequate given the relative risk of loss, the cost of the coverage and industry practice. We do not carry insurance for generally uninsured losses such as loss from riots or war. Some of our policies, such as those covering losses due to terrorism, earthquake and floods, are insured subject to limitations involving large deductibles or co-payments and policy limits, which may not be sufficient to cover such losses. Most of our properties are located in Southern California, an area especially subject to earthquakes. Six of the eight largest properties in our office portfolio – US Bank Tower, Gas Company Tower, Wells Fargo Tower, KPMG Tower, Two California Plaza and One California Plaza (one of our joint venture properties) – are all located within the Bunker Hill section of downtown Los Angeles. Together, these properties represented roughly 45.4% of our Effective Portfolio’s aggregate annualized rent as of December 31, 2008. Because these properties are located so closely together, an earthquake in downtown Los Angeles could materially damage, destroy or impair the use by tenants of all of these properties. While we presently carry earthquake insurance on our properties, the amount of our earthquake insurance coverage may not be sufficient to fully cover losses from earthquakes, particularly losses from an earthquake in downtown Los Angeles. In addition, we may discontinue earthquake, terrorism or other insurance on some or all of our properties in the future if the cost of premiums for any of these policies exceeds, in our judgment, the value of the coverage discounted for the risk of loss. If we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds policy limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties as well as the anticipated future cash flow from those properties. In addition, if the damaged properties are subject to recourse indebtedness, we would continue to be liable for the indebtedness, even if these properties were irreparably damaged. In such event, securing additional insurance, if possible, could be significantly more expensive than our current policy. 13 Table of Contents Future terrorist attacks in the United States could harm the demand for and the value of our properties. Future terrorist attacks in the U.S., such as the attacks that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, and other acts of terrorism or war could harm the demand for and the value of our properties. Certain of our properties (including US Bank Tower) are well-known landmarks and may be perceived as more likely terrorist targets than similar, less recognizable properties, which could potentially reduce the demand for and value of these properties. A decrease in demand or value could make it difficult for us to renew leases or re-lease space at lease rates equal to or above historical rates or then-prevailing market rates. Terrorist attacks also could directly impact the value of our properties through damage, destruction, loss, or increased security costs, and the availability of insurance for such acts may be limited or cost more. Six of the eight largest properties in our office portfolio – US Bank Tower, Gas Company Tower, Wells Fargo Tower, KPMG Tower, Two California Plaza and One California Plaza (one of our joint venture properties) – are all located within the Bunker Hill section of downtown Los Angeles. Together, these properties represented roughly 45.4% of our Effective Portfolio’s aggregate annualized rent as of December 31, 2008. Because these properties are located so closely together, a terrorist attack on any one of these properties, or in the downtown Los Angeles or Bunker Hill areas generally, could materially damage, destroy or impair the use by tenants of all of these properties. To the extent that our tenants are impacted by future attacks, their ability to continue to honor obligations under their existing leases with us could be adversely affected. Additionally, certain tenants have termination rights or purchase options in respect of certain casualties. If we receive casualty proceeds, we may not be able to reinvest such proceeds profitably or at all, and we may be forced to recognize a taxable gain on the affected property. Failure to reinvest casualty proceeds in the affected property or properties could also trigger our tax indemnification obligations under our agreements with certain limited partners of our Operating Partnership with respect to sales of specified properties. Market interest rates and other factors may affect the value of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock. One of the factors that influence the price of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock is the dividend yield on our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock relative to market interest rates. An increase in market interest rates, which are currently at low levels relative to historical rates, could cause the market price of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock to go down. The trading price of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock would also depend on many other factors, which may change from time to time, including: • Whether we are paying dividends on our common stock and/or Series A Preferred Stock; • Prevailing interest rates; • The market for similar securities; • The attractiveness of REIT securities in comparison to the securities of other companies, taking into account, among other things, the higher tax rates imposed on dividends paid by REITs; • Government action or regulation; • General economic conditions; and • Our financial condition, performance and prospects. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect results of operations. We seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements that involve risk, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements and that such arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. 14 Table of Contents We may be unable to complete acquisitions or successfully operate acquired properties. Our ability to acquire properties on favorable terms and successfully operate them may be adversely affected by the following significant risks: • Our potential inability to acquire a desired property because of competition from other real estate investors with significant capital, including both publicly-traded REITs and institutional investment funds; • Even if we are able to acquire a desired property, competition from other potential acquirers may significantly increase the purchase price; • Even if we enter into agreements for the acquisition of office properties, these agreements are subject to customary conditions to closing, including completion of due diligence investigations to our satisfaction; • We may be unable to finance the acquisition on favorable terms or at all, particularly in light of the current lack of financing available and general economic conditions; • We may spend more than budgeted amounts to make necessary improvements or renovations to acquired properties; • We may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and as a result our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected; • Acquired properties may be subject to reassessment, which may result in higher than expected property tax payments; • Market conditions may result in higher than expected vacancy rates and lower than expected rental rates; • We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for acquired properties; • Acquired properties may be located in new markets where we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, lack of business relationship in the area and unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures; • We may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities such as liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination, claims by tenants, vendors or other persons dealing with the former owners of the properties and claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties; and • In connection with certain potential acquisitions, we have entered into a right of first opportunity agreement with Macquarie Office Trust, whereby for any potential acquisition or development property prospect located in Southern California meeting certain investment criteria, we are obligated to offer Macquarie Office Trust the first opportunity to acquire a participating interest in that property. If we cannot finance property acquisitions on favorable terms, or operate acquired properties to meet our financial expectations, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders could be adversely affected. We may be unable to successfully complete and operate developed properties. Our future development and construction activities involve the following significant risks: • We may be unable to obtain construction financing at all or on favorable terms; 15 Table of Contents • We may be unable to obtain permanent financing at all or on advantageous terms if we finance development projects through construction loans; • We may not complete development projects on schedule or within budgeted amounts; and • We may encounter delays or refusals in obtaining all necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy, and other required governmental permits and authorizations; and occupancy rates and rents at newly developed or renovated properties may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and economic conditions, and may result in our investment not being profitable. While we intend to develop office properties primarily in the Southern California market, we may in the future develop properties for commercial, retail or other use and expand our business to other geographic regions where we expect the development of property to result in favorable risk-adjusted returns on our investment. Presently, we do not possess the same level of familiarity with development of other property types or other markets, which could adversely affect our ability to develop such properties successfully or at all or to achieve expected performance. We may encounter problems during development and construction activities. We are currently developing projects at Lantana Media Campus and 207 Goode Avenue. These construction projects, and others that we may undertake from time to time, are subject to significant development and construction risks, any of which could cause unanticipated cost increases and delays. These include the following: • Adverse weather that damages the project or causes delays; • Delays in obtaining or inability to obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals; • Changes to the plans or specifications; • Shortages of materials and skilled labor; • Increases in material and labor costs; • Engineering problems; • Labor disputes and work stoppages with contractors, subcontractors or others that are constructing the project; • Environmental issues; • Shortages of qualified employees; • Fire, flooding and other natural disasters; • Expenditure of funds on, and the devotion of management time to, projects that may not be completed; and • Geological, construction, excavation, regulatory and equipment problems. We may not be able to complete the development of any projects we begin and, if completed, our development and construction activities may not be completed in a timely manner or within budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and prospects. Our performance and value are subject to risks associated with real estate assets and with the real estate industry. Our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders depends on our ability to generate revenue in excess of expenses, scheduled principal payments on debt and capital expenditure requirements. Events and conditions 16 Table of Contents generally applicable to owners and operators of real property that are beyond our control may decrease cash available for distribution and the value of our properties. These events include: • Local oversupply, increased competition or reduction in demand for office space; • Inability to collect rent from tenants; • Vacancies or our inability to rent space on favorable terms; • Inability to finance property development and acquisitions on favorable terms; • Increased operating costs, including insurance premiums, utilities and real estate taxes; • Costs of complying with changes in governmental regulations; • The relative illiquidity of real estate investments; • Property damage resulting from seismic activity or other natural disasters; and • Changing submarket demographics. In addition, we are subject to risks generally incident to the ownership of real property, including changes in global, national, regional or local economic or real estate market conditions. For example, the current credit crisis and global economic slowdown makes it more difficult for us to lease space in or dispose of our properties. In addition, rising interest rates could also make alternative interest-bearing and other investments more attractive and therefore potentially lower the relative value of our existing real estate investments. These conditions, or the public perception that any of these conditions may occur, could result in a general decline in rents or an increased incidence of defaults under existing leases, which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders. Increasing utility costs in California may have an adverse effect on our operating results and occupancy levels. The State of California continues to address issues related to the supply of electricity, water and natural gas. In recent years, shortages of electricity have resulted in increased costs for consumers and certain interruptions in service. Increased consumer costs and consumer perception that the State is not able to effectively manage its utility needs may reduce demand for leased space in California office properties. A significant reduction in demand for office space could adversely affect our future financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, quoted trading prices of our securities and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay distributions to stockholders. We face significant competition, which may decrease or prevent increases of the occupancy and rental rates of our properties. We compete with numerous developers, owners and operators of office and commercial real estate, many of whom own properties similar to ours in the same submarkets in which our properties are located. If our competitors offer space at rental rates below current market rates, or below the rental rates we currently charge our tenants, some of which are significantly above current market rates, we may lose potential tenants and may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge in order to retain tenants when their leases expire. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders may be adversely affected. We could default on leases for land on which some of our properties are located. We possess leasehold interests on the land at Two California Plaza that, including renewal options, expires in 2082. We also have a lease for the land at Brea Corporate Place that expires in 2083. As of December 31, 2008, we 17 Table of Contents had 1,657,271 net rentable square feet of office space located on these parcels. If we default under the terms of these long-term leases, we may be liable for damages and lose our interest in these properties, including our options to purchase the land subject to the leases. We may be unable to renew leases, lease vacant space or re-lease space as leases expire. As of December 31, 2008, leases representing 5.4% and 9.5% of the square footage of the properties in our Effective Portfolio will expire in 2009 and 2010, respectively, and an additional 20.7% of the square footage of the properties in our Effective Portfolio was available for lease. Above-market rental rates at some of our properties will force us to renew or re-lease some expiring leases at lower rates. We cannot assure you that leases will be renewed or that our properties will be re-leased at net effective rental rates equal to or above their current net effective rental rates (particularly in the current softened leasing market). If the rental rates for our properties decrease, our existing tenants do not renew their leases or we do not re-lease a significant portion of our available space and space for which leases will expire, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders would be adversely affected. Because we own a hotel property, we face the risks associated with the hospitality industry. We own the Westin® Pasadena Hotel located in Pasadena, California and are susceptible to risks associated with the hospitality industry, including: • Competition for guests with other hotels, some of which may have greater marketing and financial resources than the manager of our hotel; • Increases in operating costs from inflation and other factors that the manager of our hotel may not be able to offset through higher room rates; • Future terrorist attacks that could adversely affect the travel and tourism industries and decrease demand for our hotel; • Fluctuating and seasonal demands of business travelers and tourism; • General and local economic conditions (such as the current economic downturn) may affect demand for travel in general; and • Potential oversupply of hotel rooms resulting from excessive new development. If our hotel does not generate sufficient revenue, our financial position, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders may be adversely affected. We could incur significant costs related to government regulation and private litigation over environmental matters. Under various laws relating to the protection of the environment, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for contamination resulting from the presence or discharge of hazardous or toxic substances at that property, and may be required to investigate and clean up such contamination at that property or emanating from that property. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the contaminants, and the liability may be joint and several. The presence of contamination or the failure to remedy contamination in our properties may expose us to third-party liability or adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or develop the real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. These environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance and removal of ACBM, and may impose fines and penalties for failure to comply with these requirements or expose us to third-party liability. Some of our 18 Table of Contents properties contain ACBM and we could be liable for such fines or penalties. We cannot assure our stockholders that costs of future environmental compliance will not affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders or such costs or other remedial measures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results of operations. None of the recent site assessments revealed any past or present environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results of operations. Some of the properties in our portfolio contain, or may have contained, or are adjacent to or near other properties that have contained or currently contain, underground storage tanks for the storage of petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances. If hazardous or toxic substances were released from these tanks, we could incur significant costs or be liable to third parties with respect to the releases. From time to time, the EPA designates certain sites affected by hazardous substances as “Superfund” sites pursuant to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act. The EPA identifies parties who are considered to be potentially responsible for the hazardous substances at Superfund sites and makes them liable for the costs of responding to the hazardous substances. The parcel of land on which the Glendale Center is located lies within a large Superfund site, and we could be named as a potentially responsible party with respect to that site. Existing conditions at some of our properties may expose us to liability related to environmental matters. Independent environmental consultants have conducted Phase I or other environmental site assessments on all of the properties in our existing portfolio. Site assessments are intended to discover and evaluate information regarding the environmental condition of the surveyed property and surrounding properties. These assessments do not generally include soil samplings, subsurface investigations or an asbestos survey and the assessments may fail to reveal all environmental conditions, liabilities or compliance concerns. None of the site assessments revealed any past or present environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results of operations. However, the assessments may have failed to reveal all environmental conditions, liabilities or compliance concerns. Material environmental conditions, liabilities, or compliance concerns may have arisen after the review was completed or may arise in the future and future laws, ordinances or regulations may impose material additional environmental liability. We cannot assure our stockholders that costs of future environmental compliance will not affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders or such costs or other remedial measures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results of operations. Potential environmental liabilities may exceed our environmental insurance coverage limits. We carry environmental insurance to cover likely and reasonably anticipated potential environmental liability associated with above-ground and underground storage tanks at all of our properties where such tanks are located. While we believe this coverage is sufficient to protect us against likely environmental risks, we cannot assure you that our insurance coverage will be sufficient or that our liability, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders. We may incur significant costs complying with the ADA and similar laws. Under the ADA, all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Although we believe that the properties in our portfolio substantially comply with present requirements of the ADA and we continue to make capital expenditures to address the requirements of the ADA, we have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance. If one or more of our properties is not in compliance with the ADA, then we would be required to incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance. Additional federal, state and local laws also may require modifications to our 19 Table of Contents properties, or restrict our ability to renovate our properties. We cannot predict the ultimate amount of the cost of compliance with the ADA or other legislation. If we incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA and any other legislation, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders could be adversely affected. We may incur significant costs complying with other regulations. The properties in our portfolio are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. If we fail to comply with these various requirements, we might incur governmental fines or private damage awards. We believe that the properties in our portfolio are currently in material compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements. However, we do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether future requirements will require us to make significant unanticipated expenditures that will adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, the per share trading price of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders. Joint venture investments, including our joint venture with Macquarie Office Trust, could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on co-venturers’ financial condition and disputes between us and our co-venturers. We are currently partners with Macquarie Office Trust and DH Von Karman, LLC in joint ventures. We may also co-invest in the future with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures or other entities, acquiring non-controlling interests in or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of a property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. In the case of our existing joint ventures and any additional joint ventures, we would not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the property, partnership, joint venture or other entities. Additionally we have a right of first opportunity agreement with Macquarie Office Trust, which obligates us to offer Macquarie Office Trust the first opportunity to invest in any potential acquisition property. Investments in partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that partners or co-venturers might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Partners or co-venturers may have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Such investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions, such as a sale, because neither we nor the partner or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. Impasses could also result in either the sale of a building or buildings, the sale of our joint venture interest or the purchase of Macquarie Office Trust’s interest. Disputes between us and partners or co-venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and/or directors from focusing their time and effort on our business. Consequently, actions by or disputes with partners or co-venturers might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. In addition, we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners or co-venturers. We will seek to maintain sufficient control of such entities to permit them to achieve our business objectives. Failure to qualify as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences to us and the value of our stock. We operate in a manner that is intended to allow us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes under the Code. We have not requested and do not plan to request a ruling from the IRS that we qualify as a REIT, and the statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are not binding on the IRS or any court. If we lose our REIT status, we will face serious tax consequences that would substantially reduce the funds available for distribution to our stockholders for each of the years involved because: (i) we would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to stockholders in computing our taxable income and we would be subject to federal and state 20 Table of Contents income tax at regular corporate rates; (ii) we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and (iii) unless we are entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will not be required to make distributions to stockholders, and all distributions to stockholders will be subject to tax as regular corporate dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and would adversely affect the value of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The complexity of these provisions and of the applicable U.S. Treasury Department regulations that have been promulgated under the Code is greater in the case of a REIT that, like us, holds its assets through a partnership. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. To qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy a number of asset, income, organizational, distribution, stock ownership and other requirements. Also, we must make distributions to our stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding capital gains. In addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may adversely affect our investors, our ability to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes or the desirability of an investment in a REIT relative to other investments. Even if we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we may be subject to some federal, state and local taxes on our income or property and, in certain cases, a 100% penalty tax in the event we sell property as a dealer or if our services company enters into agreements with us or our tenants on a basis that is determined to be other than on an arm’s-length basis. To maintain our REIT status, we may be forced to borrow funds on a short-term basis during unfavorable market conditions. To qualify as a REIT, we generally must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income each year, excluding capital gains, and we will be subject to regular corporate income taxes to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income each year. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. In order to maintain our REIT status and avoid the payment of income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the REIT distribution requirements even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. These short-term borrowing needs could result from differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. Our success depends on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed. We depend on the efforts of key personnel, particularly Nelson C. Rising, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Among the reasons that Mr. Rising is important to our success is that he has a national industry reputation that attracts business and investment opportunities and assists us in negotiations with lenders, existing and potential tenants and industry personnel. If we lost his services, our relationships with such personnel could diminish. Many of our other senior executives also have strong regional industry reputations, which aid us in identifying opportunities, having opportunities brought to us, and negotiating with tenants and build-to-suit prospects. While we believe that we could find replacements for all of these key personnel, the loss of their services could materially and adversely affect our operations because of diminished relationships with lenders, existing and prospective tenants and industry personnel. 21 Table of Contents Our charter and Maryland law contain provisions that may delay, defer or prevent transactions that may be beneficial to the holders of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock. Our charter contains a 9.8% ownership limit. Our Articles of Amendment and Restatement (our “charter”), subject to certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT and to limit any person to actual or constructive ownership of no more than 9.8% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt a proposed transferee from the ownership limit. However, our board of directors may not grant an exemption from the ownership limit to any proposed transferee whose ownership, direct or indirect, in excess of 9.8% of the value of our outstanding shares of our common stock could jeopardize our status as a REIT. These restrictions on transferability and ownership will not apply if our board of directors determines that it is no longer in our best interests to attempt to qualify, or to continue to qualify, as a REIT. The ownership limit may delay or impede a transaction or a change in control that might be in the best interest of our stockholders. We could authorize and issue stock without stockholder approval. Our charter authorizes our board of directors to amend the charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have the authority to issue, to issue authorized but unissued shares of our common stock or Series A Preferred Stock and to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of our common stock or Series A Preferred Stock and to set the preferences, rights and other terms of such classified or unclassified shares. Although our board of directors has no such intention at the present time, it could establish another series of stock that could, depending on the terms of such series, delay, defer or prevent a transaction that might be in the best interest of our stockholders. Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes in control. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law (“MGCL”) may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change in control under circumstances that otherwise could be in the best interest of our stockholders, including: (i) “business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our outstanding voting shares or any affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our then outstanding voting shares) or an affiliate thereof for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter imposes special appraisal rights and special stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and (ii) “control share” provisions that provide that “control shares” of our company (defined as shares that, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares. We have opted out of these provisions of the MGCL, in the case of the business combination provisions of the MGCL by resolution of our board of directors, and in the case of the control share provisions of the MGCL pursuant to a provision in our bylaws. However, our board of directors may by resolution elect to opt in to the business combination provisions of the MGCL and we may, by amendment to our bylaws, opt in to the control share provisions of the MGCL in the future. In addition, provided that we have a class of equity securities registered under the Exchange Act and at least three independent directors, Subtitle 8 of Title 3 of the MGCL permits us to elect to be subject, by provision in our charter or bylaws or a resolution of our board of directors and notwithstanding any contrary provision in the charter or bylaws, to certain provisions, including a classified board and a requirement that a vacancy on the board be filled only by the remaining directors and for the remainder of the full term of the class of directors in which the vacancy occurred. Our charter, bylaws, the partnership agreement and Maryland law also contain other provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. 22 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 