Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Related to our Business We have not been profitable on a consistent basis and our losses could continue. We have experienced significant losses in the past. For the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, we recorded net losses of approximately $29.5 million, $11.5 million and $0.3 million (excluding the gain of $4.1 million from the payoff of our debt), respectively. We recorded operating losses of approximately $25.7 million and $7.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004, respectively, and operating income of approximately $1.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $155.8 million. We have only recently generated sufficient cash flow from operations to fund our expenses and may not continue to do so as we launch new markets or products. We have not been profitable on a consistent basis and can give no assurance that our losses will not continue. We face intense competition from other providers of communications services that have significantly greater resources than we do. Several of these competitors are better positioned to engage in competitive pricing, which may impede our ability to implement our business model of attracting customers away from such providers. The market for communications services is highly competitive. We compete, and expect to continue to compete, with many types of communications providers, including traditional local telephone companies. In the future, we may also face increased competition from cable television companies, new VoIP-based service providers or other managed service providers with similar business models to our own. We integrated mobile services with our existing wireline services in the first quarter of 2006 and face competition from mobile service providers as well. Our current or future competitors may provide services comparable or superior to those provided by us, or at lower prices, or adapt more quickly to evolving industry trends or changing market requirements. A substantial majority of our target customers are existing small businesses that are already purchasing communications services from one or more of these providers. The success of our operations is dependent on our ability to persuade these small businesses to leave their current providers. Many of these providers have competitive advantages over us, including substantially greater financial, personnel and other resources, better access to capital, brand name recognition and long-standing relationships with customers. These resources may place us at a competitive disadvantage in our current markets and limit our ability to expand into new markets. Because of their greater financial resources, some of our competitors can also better afford to reduce prices for their services and engage in aggressive promotional activities. Such tactics could have a negative impact on our business. For example, some of our competitors have adopted pricing plans such that the rates that they charge are not always substantially higher, and in some cases are lower, than the rates that we charge for similar services. In addition, other providers are offering unlimited or nearly unlimited use of some of their services for an attractive monthly rate. Due to these and other competitive pricing pressures, we currently expect average monthly revenue per customer location to remain relatively flat or decline in the foreseeable future. Any of the foregoing factors could require us to reduce our prices to remain competitive or cause us to lose customers, resulting in a decrease in our revenue. Increasing use of VoIP technology by our competitors, entry into the market by new providers employing VoIP technology and improvements in quality of service of VoIP technology provided over the public Internet could increase competition. Our success is based partly on our ability to provide discounted local and long distance voice services by taking advantage of cost savings achieved by employing VoIP technology, as compared to using traditional networks. The adoption of VoIP technology by other communications carriers, including existing competitors such as local telephone companies that currently use legacy technologies, could increase price competition. 23 Table of Contents Moreover, other VoIP providers could also enter the market. Because networks using VoIP technology can be deployed with less capital investment than traditional networks, there are lower barriers to entry in this market and it may be easier for new entrants to emerge. Increased competition may require us to lower our prices or may make it more difficult for us to retain our existing customers or add new customers. We believe we generally do not compete with VoIP providers who use the public Internet to transmit communications traffic, as these providers generally do not provide the level and quality of service typically demanded by the business customers we serve. However, future advances in VoIP technology may enable these providers to offer an improved level and quality of service to business customers over the public Internet and with lower costs than using a private network. This development could result in increased price competition. The success of our expansion plans depends on a number of factors that are beyond our control. We have grown our business by entering new geographical markets, and we plan to expand into five additional markets by the end of 2009. We have never undertaken such a broad expansion plan and there can be no guarantee that our expansion plans will be successful. Our success in expanding to new markets depends on the following factors: • the availability and retention of qualified and effective local management; • the overall economic health of the new markets; • the number and effectiveness of competitors; • our ability to establish a relationship and work effectively with the local telephone company for the provision of access lines to customers; and • the maintenance of state regulation that protects us from unfair business practices by local telephone companies or others with greater market power who have relationships with us as both competitors and suppliers. Our operational support systems and business processes may not be adequate to effectively manage our growth. Our continued success depends on the scalability of our systems and processes. As of December 31, 2005, none of our individual market operations have supported levels of customers in excess of 6,500, and our centralized systems and processes have not supported more than 20,500 customers. We cannot be certain that our systems and processes are adequate to support ongoing growth in customers. Failure to manage our future growth effectively could harm our quality of service and customer relationships, which could increase our customer churn, result in higher operating costs, write-offs or other accounting charges, and otherwise materially harm our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to continue to grow our customer base at historic rates, which would result in a decrease in the rate of revenue growth. From December 31, 2004 to December 31, 2005, we experienced an annual growth rate in customer locations of 38%. We may not experience this same growth rate in the future, and we may not grow at all, in our current markets. Future growth in our existing markets may be more difficult than our growth has been to date due to increased or more effective competition in the future, difficulties in scaling our business systems and processes, or difficulty in maintaining sufficient numbers of qualified market management personnel, sales personnel and qualified integrated access device installation service providers to obtain and support additional customers. Failure to continue to grow our customer base at historic rates would result in a corresponding decrease in the rate of our revenue growth. 24 Table of Contents We depend on third party providers who install our integrated access devices at customer locations. We must maintain relationships with efficient installation service providers in our current cities and identify similar providers as we enter new markets in order to maintain quality in our operations. The installation of integrated access devices at customer locations is an essential step that enables our customers to obtain our service. We outsource the installation of integrated access devices to a number of different installation vendors in each market. We must insure that these vendors adhere to the timelines and quality that we require to provide our customers with a positive installation experience. In addition, we must obtain these installation services at reasonable prices. If we are unable to continue maintaining a sufficient number of installation vendors in our markets who provide high quality service at reasonable prices to us, we may have to use our own employees to perform installations of integrated access devices. We may not be able to manage such installations effectively using our own employees with the quality we desire and at reasonable costs. We depend on local telephone companies for the installation and maintenance of our customers’ T-1 access lines and other network elements and facilities. Our customers’ T-1 access lines are installed and maintained by local telephone companies in each of our markets. If the local telephone company does not perform the installation properly or in a timely manner, our customers could experience disruption in service and delays in obtaining our services. Since inception, we have experienced routine delays in the installation of T-1 lines by the local telephone companies to our customers in each of our markets, although these delays have not yet resulted in any material impact to our ability to compete and add customers in our markets. Any work stoppage action by employees of a local telephone company that provides us services in one of our markets could result in substantial delays in activating new customers’ lines and could materially harm our operations. Although local telephone companies may be required to pay fines and penalties to us for failures to provide us with these installation and maintenance services according to prescribed time intervals, the negative impact on our business of such failures could substantially exceed the amount of any such cash payments. Furthermore, we are also dependent on traditional local telephone companies for access to their colocation facilities and we utilize certain of their network elements. Failure of these elements or damage to a local telephone company’s colocation facility would cause disruptions in our service. Some of our services are dependent on facilities and systems maintained by third parties over which we have no control, the failure of which could cause interruptions or discontinuation of some of our services, damage our reputation, cause us to lose customers and limit our growth. We provide some of our existing services, such as email and webhosting, by reselling to our customers services provided by third parties, and beginning in the first quarter of 2006, we started offering mobile options integrated with our existing wireline services by reselling mobile services provided by an established national third-party mobile carrier. We do not have control over the networks and other systems maintained by these third parties. If our third-party providers fail to maintain their facilities properly or fail to respond quickly to network or other problems, our customers may experience interruptions in the service they obtain from us. Any service interruptions experienced by our customers could negatively impact our reputation, cause us to lose customers and limit our ability to attract new customers. If we cannot negotiate new (or extensions of existing) interconnection agreements with local telephone companies on acceptable terms, it will be more difficult and costly for us to provide service to our existing customers and to expand our business. We have agreements for the interconnection of our network with the networks of the local telephone companies covering each market in which we operate. These agreements also provide the framework for service to our customers when other local carriers are involved. We will be required to negotiate new interconnection agreements to enter new markets in the future. In addition, we will need to negotiate extension or replacement 25 Table of Contents agreements as our existing interconnection agreements expire. Most of our interconnection agreements have terms of three years, although the parties may mutually decide to amend the terms of such agreements. If we cannot negotiate new interconnection agreements or renew our existing interconnection agreements on favorable terms or at all, we may invoke binding arbitration by state regulatory agencies. The arbitration process is expensive and time-consuming, and the results of an arbitration may be unfavorable to us. If we are unable to obtain favorable interconnection terms, it would harm our existing operations and opportunities to grow our business in our current and new markets. The fixed pricing structure for our integrated packages makes us vulnerable to price increases by our suppliers for network equipment and access fees for circuits that we lease to gain access to our customers. We offer our integrated packages to customers at a fixed price for one, two, or three years. If we experience an increase in our costs due to price increases from our suppliers, vendors or third party carriers or increases in access, installation, interconnection fees payable to local telephone companies or other fees, we will not be able to pass these increases on to our customers immediately and this could materially harm our results of operations. We are regulated by the Federal Communications Commission, state public service commissions, and local regulating governmental bodies. Changes in regulation could result in price increases on the circuits that we lease from the local telephone companies or in our losing the right to lease these circuits from them. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to regulation by telecommunications authorities at the federal, state and local levels. Changes in regulatory policy could increase the fees we must pay to third parties, make certain required elements of our network less readily available to us, or subject us to more stringent requirements that could cause us to incur additional operating expenditures. The T-1 connections we provide to our customers are leased primarily from our competitors, the local telephone companies. The rules of the FCC adopted under the Telecommunications Act of 1996 generally entitle us to lease these connections at wholesale prices based on incremental costs. It is possible, though we believe unlikely, that Congress will pass legislation in the future that will diminish or eliminate our right to lease such connections at regulated rates. In addition, a court decision in late 2004 led the FCC to eliminate our right to purchase connections at wholesale prices based on incremental costs in some situations. The costs we incur to obtain some of these T-1 connections is therefore likely to increase. Our rights of access to the facilities of local telephone companies may also change as a result of future regulatory decisions as well as court decisions. Although we expect that we will continue to be able to obtain T-1 connections for our customers, we may not be able to do so at current prices. The pricing for the majority of the T-1 connections we use is established by state regulatory commissions and from time to time this pricing is reviewed and the state commission decisions are subject to appeal. While we have experienced rate reductions in Texas and Illinois, these rulings are under appeal. We have also been subject to an increase in pricing in Georgia for these connections as a result of a court ruling. If we lose the right to obtain these connections at regulated prices based on incremental costs, we will need to either negotiate new commercial arrangements with the local telephone companies to obtain the connections, perhaps at unfavorable rates and conditions, or obtain other means of providing connections to our customers, which may be expensive and require a long timeframe to implement. Also, the FCC is currently considering changing its rules for calculating incremental cost-based rates, which could result in either increases or decreases in our cost to lease these facilities. Significant increases in wholesale prices, especially for the loop element we use most extensively, could materially harm our business. The FCC is reexamining its policies towards VoIP and telecommunications in general. Changes in regulation could subject us to additional fees or increase the competition we face. We currently operate as a regulated common carrier, which subjects us to some regulatory obligations. The FCC adopted rules that require “interconnected VoIP providers” to enable emergency 911 services for all 26 Table of Contents customers that are comparable to the 911 services provided by traditional telephone networks, and to implement certain capabilities for the monitoring of communications by law enforcement agencies pursuant to a subpoena or court order. We currently comply with the 911 requirements and law enforcement assistance requirements applicable to traditional telecommunications carriers, and do not believe that the FCC’s rules will impose significant additional obligations and costs on us. However, the FCC is re-examining its other policies towards services provided over IP networks, such as our VoIP technology, and the results of these proceedings could impose additional obligations, fees or limitations on us. Regulatory decisions may also affect the level of competition we face. Reduced regulation of retail services offered by local telephone companies could increase the competitive advantages those companies enjoy, cause us to lower our prices in order to remain competitive or otherwise make it more difficult for us to attract and retain customers. Our network depends on new IP technology that has not been widely deployed. As a result, the adaptability and reliability of this technology remains uncertain. In contrast to the legacy circuit-switch technology used by the traditional telephone companies and other providers of traditional communications services, our network is based on IP technology. This technology is much newer and has not been used on active networks for as long. Although we believe that IP technology is well-designed for the provision of a broad array of communications services to high numbers of users, we cannot assure you that our IP-based network can adapt to future technological advancements, that it can handle increasingly higher volumes of voice and data traffic as we grow our business or as our customers’ usage increases, or that it will be reliable over long periods of time. Any failure of our network or any deterioration in our quality of service compared to those of other providers of communications services could cause an increase in our customer churn rate and make it difficult for us to acquire new customers. Our competitors may be better positioned than we are to adapt to rapid changes in technology, and we could lose customers. The communications industry has experienced, and will probably continue to experience, rapid and significant changes in technology. Technological changes, such as the use of wireless network access to customers in place of the T-1 access lines we lease from the local telephone companies, could render aspects of the technology we employ suboptimal or obsolete and provide a competitive advantage to new or larger competitors who might more easily be able to take advantage of these opportunities. Some of our competitors, including the local telephone companies, have a much longer operating history, more experience in making upgrades to their networks and greater financial resources than we do. We cannot assure you that we will obtain access to new technologies as quickly or on the same terms as our competitors, or that we will be able to apply new technologies to our existing networks without incurring significant costs or at all. In addition, responding to demand for new technologies would require us to increase our capital expenditures, which may require additional financing in order to fund. As a result of those factors, we would lose customers and our financial results could be harmed. Continued industry consolidation could further strengthen our competitors, and we could lose customers or face adverse changes in regulation. In 2005 Verizon announced its merger with MCI, and SBC announced its merger with AT&T, with the combined company being renamed AT&T. In early 2006 AT&T and BellSouth announced their intention to merge their two companies. While we believe that, at least in the short term, this increasing consolidation in the communications industry will result in a greater focus on the part of our competitors on the large enterprise and consumer markets, the increased size and market power of these companies may have adverse consequences for us. These competitors could focus their large resources in the future on regaining share in the small business sector, and we could lose customers or not grow as rapidly. Furthermore, these companies could use their greater 27 Table of Contents resources to lobby effectively for changes in federal or state regulation that could have an adverse effect on our cost structure or our right to use access circuits that they are currently required to make available to us. These changes would have a harmful effect on our future financial results. We have had material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting in the past and cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. Our failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in material misstatements in our financial statements which could require us to restate financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on our stock price. During 2003 and 2004, management and our independent registered public accounting firm identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, as defined in the standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, that affected our financial statements for each of the years in the four-year period ended December 31, 2004. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.” The material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting during 2002, 2003, and 2004 related to a lack of adequate procedures for recording certain expenses and assets, incorrect calculation of certain telecommunications transactional fees, failure to record certain accounting entries between us and our leasing subsidiary and the restatement of our financial statements for the 2001, 2002 and 2003 fiscal years. The net restatement adjustments resulting from these errors affected our prior year results by increasing our 2001 net loss by $0.1 million, or 0.3%, reducing our 2002 net loss by $3.8 million, or 7.4%, and increasing our 2003 net loss by $0.3 million, or 0.9%. We cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in additional material weaknesses, cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting that will be required when the SEC’s rules under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 become applicable to us beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2006, to be filed in early 2007. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. System disruptions could cause delays or interruptions of our service, which could cause us to lose customers or incur additional expenses. Our success depends on our ability to provide reliable service. Although we have designed our network service to minimize the possibility of service disruptions or other outages, our service may be disrupted by problems on our system, such as malfunctions in our software or other facilities, overloading of our network and problems with the systems of competitors with which we interconnect, such as physical damage to telephone lines and power surges and outages. Although we have experienced isolated power disruptions and other outages for short time periods, we have not had any system disruptions of a sufficient duration or magnitude that would have a significant impact to our customers or our business. Any significant disruption in our network could cause us to lose customers and incur additional expenses. Business disruptions, including disruptions caused by security breaches, terrorism or other disasters, could harm our future operating results. The day-to-day operation of our business is highly dependent on the integrity of our communications and information technology systems, and on our ability to protect those systems from damage or interruptions by 28 Table of Contents events beyond our control. Sabotage, computer viruses or other infiltration by third parties could damage our systems. Such events could disrupt our service, damage our facilities, damage our reputation, and cause us to lose customers, among other things, and could harm our results of operations. In addition, a catastrophic event could materially harm our operating results and financial condition. Catastrophic events could include a terrorist attack on the United States, or a major earthquake, fire, or similar event that affects our central offices, corporate headquarters, network operations center or network equipment. We believe that communications infrastructures, such as the one on which we rely, may be vulnerable in the case of such an event and our markets, which are metropolitan markets, or Tier 1 markets, may be more likely to be the targets of terrorist activity. Our customer churn rate may increase. Although our customer churn rate was approximately 1% per month for 2003, 2004 and 2005, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain this rate in the future. Customer churn occurs when a customer switches to one of our competitors or when a customer discontinues its business altogether. Changes in the economy, as well as increased competition from other providers, can both impact our customer churn rate. We cannot predict future pricing by our competitors, but we anticipate that aggressive price competition will continue. Lower prices offered by our competitors could contribute to an increase in customer churn. In addition, our historical customer churn rates may not be indicative of future rates because the initial term for many of our customer contracts has not yet expired. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 22% of our existing customer contracts will expire during 2006. We obtain the majority of our network equipment and software from Cisco Systems, Inc. Our success depends upon the quality, availability, and price of Cisco’s network equipment and software. We obtain the majority of our network equipment and software from Cisco Systems, Inc., or Cisco Systems. In addition, we rely on Cisco Systems for technical support and assistance. Although we believe that we maintain a good relationship with Cisco Systems and our other suppliers, if Cisco Systems or any of our other suppliers were to terminate our relationship or were to cease making the equipment and software we use, our ability to maintain, upgrade or expand our network could be impaired. Although we believe that we would be able to address our future equipment needs with equipment obtained from other suppliers, we cannot assure you that such equipment would be compatible with our network without significant modifications or cost, if at all. If we were unable to obtain the equipment necessary to maintain our network, our ability to attract and retain customers and provide our services would be impaired. In addition, our success depends on our obtaining network equipment and software at affordable prices. Significant increases in the price of these products would harm our financial results and may increase our capital requirements. We depend on third party vendors for information systems. If these vendors discontinue support for the systems we use or fail to maintain quality in future software releases, we could sustain a negative impact on the quality of our services to customers, the development of new services and features, and the quality of information needed to manage our business. We have entered into agreements with vendors that provide for the development and operation of back office systems such as ordering, provisioning and billing systems. We also rely on vendors to provide the systems for monitoring the performance and condition of our network. The failure of those vendors to perform their services in a timely and effective manner at acceptable costs could materially harm our growth and our ability to monitor costs, bill customers, provision customer orders, maintain the network and achieve operating efficiencies. Such a failure could also negatively impact our ability to retain existing customers or to attract new customers. 29 Table of Contents If we are unable to generate the cash that we need to pursue our business plan, we may have to raise additional capital on terms unfavorable to our stockholders. The actual amount of capital required to fund our operations and development may vary materially from our estimates. If our operations fail to generate the cash that we expect, we may have to seek additional capital to fund our business. If we are required to obtain additional funding in the future, we may have to sell assets, seek debt financing or obtain additional equity capital. In addition, the terms of our undrawn $25.0 million secured revolving line of credit with Bank of America, and any other indebtedness we incur in the future, could subject us to restrictive covenants limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business. If we do not comply with such covenants, our lenders could accelerate repayment of our debt or restrict our access to further borrowings. If we raise funds by selling more stock, our stockholders’ ownership in us will be diluted, and we may grant future investors rights superior to those of the common stockholders. If we are unable to obtain additional capital when needed, we may have to delay, modify or abandon some of our expansion plans. This could slow our growth, negatively affect our ability to compete in our industry and adversely affect our financial condition. Our new mobile service may prove difficult to bill, support, and sell, and may generate fewer sales or greater costs than we expect. Our new mobile service, BeyondMobile, may prove more difficult to integrate successfully with our operational support systems than we anticipate, which could result in billing errors and service problems. In addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate new applications and service features across both our mobile and landline platforms in ways that provide value to our customers, as we intend. These problems could cause us to spend more on our mobile service, create operating inefficiencies, and could also limit our ability to successfully add customers in sufficient amounts to justify our investment. In addition, if service and integration problems occur, we may not realize the benefits of greater customer satisfaction, and our customer churn rate may increase. Risks Related To Our Common Stock Future sales of shares by existing stockholders or issuances of our common stock by us could reduce our stock price. If our existing stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market or we issue additional shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, the market price of our common stock could decline. In connection with our initial public offering in November 2005 filed on Form S-1 (Reg. No. 333-124971) in which we sold 6,132,353 shares of our common stock at a public offering price of $12.00 (excluding underwriting discounts, commissions and other fees) (the “Initial Public Offering”), our directors, officers and certain of our stockholders entered into lock-up agreements with the underwriters or similar lock-up agreements with us under which they agreed not to sell their shares of our common stock until May 1, 2006 without the consent of the representatives of the underwriters (subject to certain exceptions). We also agreed that we will not sell additional shares of our common stock during this period. After these lock-up agreements terminate, an additional 19,370,872 shares will be eligible for sale in the public market. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware corporate law might deter acquisition bids for us that our stockholders might consider favorable. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for a classified board of directors; the inability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders, to act by written consent, to remove any director or the entire board of directors without cause, or to fill any vacancy on the board of directors; and advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals. Our board of directors is also permitted to authorize the issuance of preferred stock with rights superior to the rights of the holders of common stock without any vote or further action by our stockholders. These provisions and other provisions under Delaware law could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. 30 Table of Contents Because we do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. The continued expansion of our business will require substantial funding. Accordingly, we do not currently anticipate paying any dividends on shares of our common stock. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board of directors deems relevant. Accordingly, realization of a gain on stockholders’ investments will depend on the appreciation of the price of our common stock. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders purchased their shares. Item 1B. Unresolved SEC Staff Comments None. 