Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our growth and financial health are subject to a number of economic risks. As widely reported, the financial markets in the United States have experienced significant disruption in recent years, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. If the capital and credit markets experience further volatility and limited availability of funds remains limited, our ability to access the capital and credit markets may be limited by these conditions or other factors at a time when we would like, or need, to do so. This could have an impact on our ability to react to changing economic and business conditions. While currently these conditions have not impaired our ability to access credit markets and finance our operations, there can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in major economies. We attempt to monitor the financial health of significant vendors because economic conditions may also adversely affect the ability of third-party vendors important to our operations to continue as going concerns. If such vendors were to fail, we may not be able to replace them without disruptions to, or deterioration of, our service and we may incur higher costs associated with the new vendors. Transitioning to new vendors may also result in the loss of the value of assets associated with our integration of third-party services into our network or service offering. The depth and duration of economic downturns on the small and mid-sized business sector may also reduce the size and viability of our target market of small and mid-sized businesses, particularly in geographic areas where the economic impacts are more severe. We are unable to predict the timing, likely duration or severity of economic downturns on the small business sector, which may in turn limit the formation of small business customers. The success of our growth and expansion plans depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control. We have thus far grown our business by increasing the number of customers in existing markets, entering new geographical markets, and selling additional services to existing customers. We do not plan to open additional geographic markets in the near term and we expect future revenue growth will come by selling more complex and profitable services, including cloud-based services, to new and existing customers over a mix of access models including UNE T-1s, Ethernet services provided over UNE copper loops, fiber services provided via long-term leases with various fiber providers, and other fiber connections from various wholesale providers. There is no guarantee we will be able to maintain our growth or that we will choose to target the same pace of market growth in the future. Our success in achieving continued growth depends upon several factors including: • the availability and retention of qualified and effective personnel with the expertise required to sell and operate effectively or successfully; • the overall economic health of existing markets or small businesses in general; • the number and effectiveness of competitors; • the pricing structure under which we will be able to obtain circuits and purchase other services required to serve our customers; • the availability to us of technologies needed to remain competitive; • our ability to establish relationships and work effectively with the local telephone companies for the provision of access lines to customers; and • Federal and state regulatory conditions, including rules that burden our business and therefore increase our costs, and regulatory requirements imposed on incumbent providers from which we derive significant benefits. 11 Table of Contents Acquisitions and joint ventures may have an adverse effect on our business. We may continue making acquisitions or entering into joint ventures as part of our long-term business strategy. These transactions involve significant challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy; that we do not realize a satisfactory return on our investment; or that we experience difficulty in the integration of new employees, business systems, and technology; or diversion of management’s attention from our other businesses. These events could harm our operating results or financial condition. We may not be able to continue to grow our customer base. Future growth in our existing markets may be more difficult than our growth has been to date due to increased or more effective competition in the future; difficulties in scaling our business systems and processes; or difficulties in maintaining sufficient numbers of qualified market management personnel, sales personnel and qualified integrated access device installation service providers to obtain and support additional customers. The fixed pricing structure for our integrated packages makes us vulnerable to price increases by our suppliers for network equipment and access fees for circuits that we lease to gain access to our customers. We offer a majority of our customers an integrated package at a fixed price for one, two or three years. If we experience an increase in our costs due to price increases from our suppliers, vendors or third-party carriers, new or changed regulation, or increases in access fees, installation fees, interconnection fees payable to local telephone companies or other fees, we may not be able to pass these increases on to our customers immediately, and this could materially harm our results of operations. We face intense competition from other service providers that have significantly greater resources than we do. Several of these competitors are better positioned to engage in competitive pricing, which may impede our ability to implement our business model of attracting customers away from such providers. The market we compete in is highly competitive. We compete, and expect to continue to compete, with many types of service providers, including traditional local telephone companies and cable companies. We also face competition from mobile service providers. In the future, we may also face increased competition from new VoIP-based service providers or other managed service providers with similar business models to our own. Our current or future competitors may provide services comparable or superior to those provided by us, or at lower prices, or adapt more quickly to evolving industry trends or changing market requirements. A substantial majority of our target customers are existing small and mid-sized businesses that are already purchasing services from one or more of these providers. The success of our operations is in part dependent on our ability to persuade these small businesses to leave their current providers. Many of these providers have competitive advantages over us, including substantially greater financial, personnel and other resources, better access to capital, brand name recognition and long-standing relationships with customers. These resources may place us at a competitive disadvantage. Because of their greater financial resources, some of our competitors can also better afford to reduce prices for their services and engage in aggressive promotional activities. Such tactics could have a negative impact on our business. For example, some of our competitors have adopted pricing plans that are similar to (and in some cases lower than) the rates that we charge for similar services. In addition, other providers are offering unlimited or nearly unlimited use of some of their services for an attractive monthly rate. Any of the foregoing factors could require us to cause us to lose customers or further reduce our prices to remain competitive, resulting in continued decreases in average monthly revenue per customer location. 12 Table of Contents Improvements in quality of service of VoIP technology provided over the public Internet could increase competition. We believe we generally do not compete with VoIP providers who use the public Internet to transmit communications traffic, as these providers generally do not provide the level and quality of service typically demanded by the business customers we serve. However, future advances in VoIP technology may enable these providers to offer an improved level and quality of service over the public Internet to business customers and with lower costs than using a private network. This development could result in increased price competition and may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Continued industry consolidation could further strengthen our competitors, and we could lose customers or face adverse changes in regulation. In the past several years, the communication industry has undergone a significant amount of consolidation. For example: Verizon merged with MCI; SBC merged with AT&T; AT&T and BellSouth merged; Comcast acquired a CLEC based in the Midwest and a nationwide wholesale provider of hosted VoIP services; Windstream acquired Nuvox, a privately held CLEC and competitor; and CenturyLink acquired Qwest. The increased size and market power of these companies may have adverse consequences for us, and other large mergers may create larger and more efficient competitors. These competitors could focus their large resources on regaining share in the small and mid-sized business sector, and we could lose customers or not grow as rapidly. Furthermore, these companies could use their greater resources to lobby effectively for changes in federal or state regulation that could have an adverse effect on our cost structure or our right to use access circuits that they are currently required to make available to us. These changes could have a harmful effect on our future financial results. We are susceptible to business and political risks from our use of international third-party resources that could result in delays in the development or maintenance of operational support systems and business processes. A portion of our IT development is performed by third-parties with offshore resources. There are inherent risks in engaging offshore resources including difficulties in complying with a variety of foreign laws, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, changes in political or economic conditions and potentially adverse tax consequences. To the extent that we do not manage our international third-party vendors successfully, our business could be adversely affected. Our operational support systems and business processes may not be adequate to effectively manage our growth. Our continued success depends on the scalability of our systems and processes. As of December 31, 2011, none of our individual market operations has supported levels of customers substantially in excess of 11,000, and our centralized systems and processes have not supported more than approximately 65,000 customer locations. We cannot be certain that our systems and processes are adequate to support ongoing growth in customers. In addition, our growing managed services profile, including our mobile services, cloud services and associated new applications, may create operating inefficiencies and result in service problems if we are unsuccessful in fully integrating such newer services into our existing operations. Failure to manage our future growth effectively could harm our quality of service and customer relationships, which could increase our customer churn, result in higher operating costs, write-offs or other accounting charges and otherwise materially harm our financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents We depend on local telephone companies for the installation and maintenance of our customers’ T-1 or certain other access lines and other network elements and facilities. A significant majority of our customers’ T-1 or other access lines are installed and maintained by local telephone companies in each of our markets. If the local telephone company does not perform the installation properly or in a timely manner, our customers could experience disruption in service and delays in obtaining our services. Since inception, we have experienced routine delays in the installation of T-1 lines by the local telephone companies to our customers in each of our markets, although these delays have not yet resulted in any material impact to our ability to compete and add customers in our markets. Any delays or work stoppage action by employees of local telephone companies on which we rely to provide services to us could result in substantial delays in activating new customers’ lines and could materially harm our operations. Although local telephone companies may be required to pay fines and penalties to us for failures to provide us with these installation and maintenance services according to prescribed time intervals, the negative impact on our business of such failures could substantially exceed the amount of any such cash payments. Furthermore, we are also dependent on traditional local telephone companies for access to their collocation facilities, and we utilize certain of their network elements. These companies are required to provide access to UNEs and collocations under federal law, but it is possible that they could refuse to comply with their obligations or engage in delay tactics that could negatively affect our ability to compete. In addition, failure of these elements or damage to a local telephone company’s collocation facility could cause disruptions in our service. We depend on third-party providers who install our integrated access devices at customer locations. We must maintain relationships with efficient installation service providers in our current cities and identify similar providers as we enter new markets in order to maintain quality in our operations. The installation of integrated access devices at customer locations is an essential step that enables our customers to obtain our service. We outsource the installation of integrated access devices to a number of different installation vendors in each market. We must ensure that these vendors adhere to the timelines and quality that we require to provide our customers with a positive installation experience. In addition, we must obtain these installation services at reasonable prices. If we are unable to continue maintaining a sufficient number of installation vendors in our markets who provide high quality service at reasonable prices to us, we may have to use our own employees to perform installations of integrated access devices. We may not be able to manage such installations effectively using our own employees with the quality we desire and at reasonable costs. Some of our services are dependent on facilities and systems maintained by or equipment manufactured by third parties over which we have no control, the failure of which could cause interruptions or discontinuation of some of our services, damage our reputation, cause us to lose customers or limit our growth. We provide some of our existing services, such as secure desktop, by reselling to our customers services provided by third parties. We also offer mobile options integrated with our existing services by reselling mobile services provided by an established national third-party mobile carrier and reselling mobile equipment manufactured by third parties. We do not have control over the networks and other systems maintained by these third parties or their equipment manufacturing processes, facilities or supply chains. If our third-party providers fail to maintain their facilities properly or fail to respond quickly to network or other problems, our customers may experience interruptions in the service they obtain from us or we may not be able to supply the needed mobile equipment. Any service interruptions experienced by our customers could negatively impact our reputation, cause us to lose customers and limit our ability to attract new customers. 14 Table of Contents Some of the services we provide are regulated by the FCC, state public service commissions and local regulating governmental bodies. Changes in regulation could increase our costs of providing service or require us to change our services We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to regulation by telecommunications authorities at the federal, state and local levels. Changes in regulatory policy could increase the fees we must pay to third parties, make certain required inputs for our network less readily available to us or subject us to requirements that could increase our operating costs. The T-1 and voice-grade copper loop connections we provide to our customers are leased primarily from our competitors, the local telephone companies. The rules of the FCC, adopted under the Telecom Act, generally entitle us to lease these connections at wholesale prices based on incremental costs. It is possible, though we believe unlikely, that Congress will pass legislation in the future that will diminish or eliminate our right to lease such connections at regulated rates. Our rights of access to the facilities of local telephone companies may also change as a result of future regulatory decisions, including forbearance petitions by ILECs that currently provide us with access to collocation and UNEs, as well as court decisions. To date, no forbearance petitions have been granted that have had any impact on our operations and none are pending. This could change, however, and there is the possibility that future forbearance grants or other regulatory rulings could limit our various rights under the Telecom Act. Although we expect that we will continue to be able to obtain T-1 and other copper loop connections for our customers, we may not be able to do so at current prices. State regulatory commissions periodically review and establish pricing for the majority of the T-1 and other copper loop connections we use. State commission decisions are subject to appeal. If our right to obtain these connections at regulated prices based on incremental costs is further impaired, we will need to either negotiate new commercial arrangements with the local telephone companies to obtain the connections, perhaps at unfavorable rates and conditions, or obtain other means of providing connections to our customers, which may be expensive and require a long timeframe to implement. These actions may cause us to exit affected markets and decrease our customer base and revenues. The FCC is also considering changing its rules for calculating incremental cost-based rates, which could result in either increases or decreases in our cost to lease these facilities. Significant increases in wholesale prices, especially for the loop element we use most extensively, could materially harm our business. Under the FCC’s rules, we are required to contribute a percentage of revenue generated from interstate and international telecommunications services (and VoIP services) to the federal USF. Current FCC rules permit us to pass this contribution amount on to our customers. The FCC has adopted a number of reforms to its USF mechanisms and currently is considering others. It is possible that the reforms adopted could increase our overall contribution obligations—for example, by expanding the scope of the regulatory regime to cover broadband Internet access services and/or limiting our ability to pass these costs through to our customers. To the extent the FCC adopts new contribution requirements expand the base of services subject to contribution requirements or otherwise imposes additional contribution obligations, such requirements and obligations may increase the costs we incur to comply with such regulations. We also must comply with the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (or “CALEA”) which requires communications carriers to ensure that their equipment, facilities and services can accommodate certain technical capabilities in executing authorized wiretapping and other electronic surveillance. We believe that we have deployed a CALEA-compliant solution throughout our network. However, we could be subject to an enforcement action by the FCC or law enforcement agencies for any delays related to meeting, or if we fail to comply with, any obligations under CALEA, or similarly mandated law enforcement-related obligations. Such enforcement actions could subject us to fines, cease and desist orders, or other penalties, all of which could adversely affect our business. Further, to the extent the FCC adopts additional capability requirements applicable to voice and data service providers, its decision may increase the costs we incur to comply with such regulations. 15 Table of Contents We are required to bill taxes, fees, and other amounts to our customers on behalf of government entities. Determining the services on which such amounts should be assessed and how to calculate the proper amounts can be complex and may involve judgment that an assessing entity may disagree with, exposing us to the possibility of material liabilities for amounts we did not bill to our customers, including interest and penalties. We are required to bill taxes, fees and other amounts (collectively referred to as “taxes”) on behalf of government entities on some of the services we provide to our customers. These entities include governments and governmental authorities at the county, city, state and federal level (or “taxing authorities”). Each taxing authority may have one or more taxes with unique rules as to which services are subject to each tax and how those services should be taxed. While some types of taxes may be similar among taxing authorities, the rules and applicable rates are often unique and change from time to time. Determining which taxing authorities have jurisdiction for a customer, which taxes are applicable, and how the specific rules should be applied often involves exercising judgment and making estimations. The nature of this process creates a risk of non-compliance, such as subjecting a customer to the wrong taxing authorities. Other risks that represent higher exposure to us include interpreting rules in a manner that may differ from the taxing authority, resulting in one or more of the following outcomes: we may not charge for a tax that we may be liable for, we may charge for a tax at a rate that is lower than what we may be liable for, or we may apply the correct rate using a methodology that differs from the applicable taxing authority’s methodology. Because we sell many of our services on a bundled basis and assess different taxes on the individual components included within the bundle, there is also a risk that a taxing authority could disagree with the taxable value of a component. Taxing authorities can perform audits for any period or periods still open for review under the applicable statute. These statutes typically provide that periods remain open for three to four years. If we were found to be improperly assessing taxes and were assessed for multiple years of under-billing our customers we could be subject to significant assessments of past taxes, fines and interest, which could materially harm our financial condition. Adverse decisions or regulations of these taxing authorities could negatively impact our operations and costs of doing business. We are unable to predict the scope, pace or financial impact of regulations and other policy changes that could be adopted by the various governmental entities that oversee portions of our business. The FCC is reexamining its policies towards VoIP and telecommunications in general. New or existing regulation could subject us to additional fees or increase the competition we face. We currently operate as a regulated common carrier, which subjects us to a number of regulatory obligations. The FCC adopted rules applicable to “interconnected VoIP providers,” but it has not determined whether to classify interconnected VoIP providers as common carriers. The rules applicable to interconnected VoIP providers require them to provide access to emergency 911 services for all customers that are comparable to the 911 services provided by traditional telephone networks, to implement certain capabilities for the monitoring of communications by law enforcement agencies pursuant to a subpoena or court order and to contribute to the federal universal service fund, among other requirements. As a common carrier, we currently comply with the 911 requirements, comply with the law enforcement assistance requirements applicable to traditional telecommunications carriers and contribute to the federal USF, and we also comply with the additional duties imposed on interconnected VoIP providers. The FCC continues to examine its policies towards services provided over IP networks, such as our VoIP technology and broadband Internet access services, and the results of these proceedings could impose additional obligations, fees or limitations on us. Regulatory decisions may also affect the level of competition we face. Reduced regulation of retail services offered by local telephone companies could increase the competitive advantages those companies enjoy, cause us to lower our prices in order to remain competitive or otherwise make it more difficult for us to attract and retain customers. 16 Table of Contents Our customer churn rate may increase. Customer churn occurs when a customer discontinues service with us, whether voluntary or involuntary, such as a customer going out of business or switching to a competitor. Changes in the economy, increased competition from other providers, or issues with the quality of service we deliver can impact our customer churn rate. We cannot predict future pricing by our competitors, but we anticipate that price competition will continue. Lower prices offered by our competitors could contribute to an increase in customer churn. Higher customer churn rates could adversely impact our revenue growth. A sustained and significant growth in the churn rate could have a material adverse effect on our business. We obtain the majority of our network equipment and software from a limited number of third-party suppliers. Our success depends upon the quality, availability and price of these suppliers’ network equipment and software. We obtain the majority of our network equipment and software from a limited number of third-party suppliers. In addition, we rely on these suppliers for technical support and assistance. Although we believe that we maintain good relationships with these suppliers, if any of them were to terminate our relationship or were to cease making the equipment and software we use, our ability to efficiently maintain, upgrade or expand our network could be impaired. Although we believe that we would be able to address our future equipment needs with equipment obtained from other suppliers, we cannot assure that such equipment would be compatible with our network without significant modifications or cost, if at all. If we were unable to obtain the equipment necessary to maintain our network, our ability to attract and retain customers and provide our services would be impaired. In addition, our success depends in part on our obtaining network equipment and software at affordable prices. Significant increases in the price of these products would harm our financial results and may increase our capital requirements. We depend on third-party vendors for information systems. If these vendors discontinue support for the systems we use or fail to maintain quality in future software releases, we could incur substantial unplanned costs to switch or upgrade our systems or equipment, and we could sustain a negative impact on the quality of our services to customers, the development of new services and features and the quality of information needed to manage our business. We have entered into agreements with vendors that provide for the development and operation of back office systems, such as ordering, provisioning and billing systems. We also rely on vendors to provide the systems for monitoring the performance and condition of our network. The failure of those vendors to perform their services in a timely and effective manner at acceptable costs could materially harm our growth and our ability to monitor costs, bill customers and carriers, provision customer orders, maintain the network and achieve operating efficiencies. Such a failure could also negatively impact our ability to retain existing customers or to attract new customers. We use software technology developed internally and by third-party vendors, and hardware technology developed by third-party vendors. We or any of these vendors could be the subject of a lawsuit alleging a violation of the intellectual property of third parties. We have created software systems, purchased software from third-party vendors and purchased hardware from third-party vendors. Our contracts with these vendors provide indemnification to us should any entity allege that we are violating its intellectual property. Should an entity bring suit or otherwise pursue intellectual property claims against us based on its own technology or the technology of third-party vendors, the result of those claims could be to raise our costs or deny us access to technology currently necessary to our network or software systems. 17 Table of Contents If we are unable to generate the cash that we need to pursue our business plan, we may have to raise additional capital on terms unfavorable to our stockholders. The actual amount of capital required to fund our operations and development may vary materially from our estimates. If our operations fail to generate the cash that we expect, we may have to seek additional capital to fund our business. If we are required to obtain additional funding in the future, we may have to sell assets, seek debt financing or obtain additional equity capital. In addition, the terms of our secured revolving line of credit (or “Credit Facility”) with Bank of America subjects us to restrictive covenants limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business, and any other indebtedness we incur in the future is likely to include similar covenants. If we do not comply with such covenants, our lenders could accelerate repayment of our debt or restrict our access to further borrowings. If we raise funds by selling more stock, our stockholders’ ownership in us will be diluted, and we may grant future investors rights superior to those of the common stockholders. If we are unable to obtain additional capital when needed, we may have to delay, modify or abandon some of our expansion plans. This could slow our growth, negatively affect our ability to compete in our industry and adversely affect our financial condition. If we cannot negotiate new (or extensions of existing) interconnection agreements with local telephone companies on acceptable terms, it will be more difficult and costly for us to provide service to our existing customers or to expand our business. We have agreements for the interconnection of our network with the networks of the local telephone companies covering each market in which we operate. These agreements also provide the framework for service to our customers when other local carriers are involved. We will be required to negotiate new interconnection agreements to enter new markets in the future. In addition, we will need to negotiate extension or replacement agreements as our existing interconnection agreements expire. Most of our interconnection agreements have terms of three years, although the parties may mutually decide to extend or amend the terms of such agreements. If we cannot negotiate new interconnection agreements or extend or renew our existing interconnection agreements on favorable terms or at all, we may invoke binding arbitration by state regulatory agencies. The arbitration process is expensive and time-consuming, and the results of arbitration may be unfavorable to us. If we are unable to obtain favorable interconnection terms, or if ILECs are relieved of their obligations to interconnect with us, it would harm our existing operations and opportunities to grow our business in our markets. The cloud-based computing model presents execution and competitive risks. We are transitioning to a computing environment characterized by cloud-based services used with smart client devices. Our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud-based services for consumers and business customers. Pricing and delivery models are evolving. Devices and form factors influence how users access services in the cloud. We are devoting significant resources to develop and deploy our own competing cloud-based software plus services strategies. While we believe our expertise, investments in infrastructure, and the breadth of our cloud-based services provides us with a strong foundation to compete, it is uncertain whether our strategies or technologies will attract the users or generate the revenue required to be successful. In addition to software development costs, we are incurring costs to build and maintain infrastructure to support cloud-based services. These costs may reduce the operating margins we have previously achieved. Whether we are successful in this new business model depends on our execution in a number of areas, including: • continuing to innovate and bring to market compelling cloud-based experiences that generate increasing traffic and market share; • maintaining the utility, compatibility and performance of our cloud-based services on the growing array of computing devices, including smartphones, handheld computers, netbooks, and tablets; and • continuing to enhance the attractiveness of our cloud platforms to third-party developers. 18 Table of Contents We have an MVNO agreement with a nationwide wireless network provider. If we cannot negotiate extensions of this agreement on acceptable terms, it will be more difficult and costly for us to provide mobile services to our existing customers or to expand our business. We provide mobile services to our customers under a mobile virtual network operator (or “MVNO”), agreement with a nationwide wireless network provider. Upon or before expiration of the current contract term in 2013, we will need to renew this agreement or enter an agreement with another provider. In addition, we will need to negotiate amendments to our MVNO agreement as services or technologies evolve in order to offer competitive services to our customers. If we cannot renew our existing agreement, enter into an agreement with another provider or negotiate amendments on favorable terms or at all, it would harm our existing operations and opportunities to grow our business in our current and new markets. Our current and future competitors may be better positioned than we are to adapt to rapid changes in technology, and we could lose customers as a result. The communications industry has experienced, and will probably continue to experience, rapid and significant changes in technology. Technological changes, such as the use of wireless or other alternatives to network access to customers in place of the T-1 or other access lines we lease from the local telephone companies, could render aspects of the technology we employ suboptimal or obsolete and provide a competitive advantage to new or larger competitors who might more easily be able to take advantage of these opportunities. Some of our competitors, including the local telephone companies, have a much longer operating history, more experience in making upgrades to their networks and greater financial resources than we do. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain access to new technologies, that we will be able to do so as quickly or on the same terms as our competitors, or that we will be able to apply new technologies to our existing networks without incurring significant costs. In addition, responding to demand for new technologies, such as our copper-based and Fiber Optic Metro Ethernet expansion, requires us to increase our capital expenditures, which may require additional financing in order to fund. As a result of those factors, we could lose customers and our financial results could be harmed. System disruptions could cause delays or interruptions of our service, which could cause us to lose customers or incur additional expenses. Our success depends on our ability to provide reliable service. Although we have designed our network service to minimize the possibility of service disruptions or other outages, our service may be disrupted by problems on our system, such as malfunctions in our software or other facilities and overloading of our network, and problems with the systems of competitors with which we interconnect, such as physical damage to telephone lines, power surges and outages. Although we have experienced isolated power disruptions and other outages for short time periods, we have not had system-wide disruptions of a sufficient duration or magnitude that have had a significant impact on our customers or our business. Any significant disruption in our network could cause us to lose customers and incur additional expenses. Business disruptions, including disruptions caused by security breaches, extreme weather, terrorism or other disasters, could harm our future operating results. The day-to-day operation of our business is highly dependent on the integrity of our communications and information technology systems, and on our ability to protect those systems from damage or interruptions by events beyond our control. Sabotage, computer viruses or other infiltration by third parties could damage our systems. Such events could disrupt our service, damage our facilities, damage our reputation, and cause us to lose customers, among other things, and could harm our results of operations. In addition, a catastrophic event could materially harm our operating results and financial condition. Catastrophic events could include a terrorist attack on the United States a major natural disaster, extreme 19 Table of Contents weather, earthquake, fire, or similar event that affects our central offices, corporate headquarters, network operations center, data centers or network equipment. We believe that communications infrastructures, such as the one on which we rely, may be vulnerable in the case of such an event, and our markets, which are major metropolitan areas, may be more likely to be the targets of terrorist activity. There is no assurance of profitability in the future. We recorded net losses of $8.0 million, $1.7 million and $2.2 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We cannot provide any assurance that we will generate positive net income in the future. Future losses could require us to slow our growth and make other changes to our business plans, and could result in an increase in our allowance against our net deferred tax assets. If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (or “GAAP”), we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant charge in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Future sales of shares by existing stockholders or issuances of our common stock by us could reduce our stock price. If our existing stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decline. In the future, we may sell additional shares of our common stock to raise capital. We cannot predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price of our common stock. We may also issue shares of our common stock from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions and investments. If any such acquisition or investment is significant, the number of shares that we issue may, in turn, be significant. In addition, we may grant registration rights covering those shares in connection with any such acquisitions and investments. The issuance and sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such issuances and sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware corporate law might deter acquisition bids for us that our stockholders might consider favorable. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for a classified board of directors; the inability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders, to act by written consent, to remove any director or the entire board of directors without cause, or to fill any vacancy on the board of directors; and advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals. Our board of directors is also permitted to authorize the issuance of preferred stock with rights superior to the rights of the holders of common stock without any vote or further action by our stockholders. These provisions and other provisions under Delaware law could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. 20 Table of Contents Because we do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. The continued expansion of our business will require substantial funding. Accordingly, we do not currently anticipate paying any dividends on shares of our common stock. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board of directors deems relevant. Accordingly, realization of a gain on stockholders’ investments will depend on the appreciation of the price of our common stock. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders purchased their shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 