ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this report should be carefully considered. Please also see “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” on page i. We operate in the highly competitive mattress and pillow industries, and if we are unable to compete successfully, we may lose customers and our sales may decline. Participants in the mattress and pillow industries compete primarily on price, quality, brand name recognition, product availability and product performance. Our premium mattresses compete with a number of different types of mattress alternatives, including standard innerspring mattresses, viscoelastic mattresses, foam mattresses, waterbeds, futons, air beds and other air-supported mattresses. These alternative products are sold through a variety of channels, including furniture and bedding stores, specialty bedding stores, department stores, mass merchants, wholesale clubs, telemarketing programs, television infomercials and catalogs. Our largest competitors have significant financial, marketing and manufacturing resources. They enjoy strong brand name recognition, and sell their products through broad and well established distribution channels. Additionally, a number of our significant competitors now offer mattress products claimed to be similar to our viscoelastic mattresses and pillows. These competitors or other mattress manufacturers may aggressively pursue the viscoelastic mattress market or may pursue the specialty sleep segment with other products, including latex and air mattresses. Any such competition by established manufacturers or new entrants into the market could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results by causing our products to lose market share. In addition, should any of our competitors reduce price on premium mattress products, we may elect to implement price reductions in order to remain competitive, which could significantly impair our liquidity and profitability. The pillow industry is characterized by a large number of competitors, none of which are dominant, but many of which have greater resources than us and greater brand recognition than our brand. We may be unable to sustain our profitability, which could impair our ability to service our indebtedness and make investments in our business and could adversely affect the market price for our stock. Our ability to service our indebtedness depends on our ability to maintain our profitability. We may not be able to maintain our profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in future periods. Further, our profitability will depend upon a number of factors, including without limitation: 7 Table of Contents • the level of competition in the mattress and pillow industry; • our ability to continue to successfully execute our strategic initiatives; • our ability to effectively sell our products through our distribution channels in volumes sufficient to drive growth and leverage our cost structure and advertising spending; • our ability to continuously improve our products to offer new and enhanced consumer benefits, better quality and reduced costs; • our ability to maintain efficient, timely and cost-effective production and utilization of our manufacturing capacity; • the efficiency and effectiveness of our advertising campaigns and other marketing programs in building product and brand awareness, driving traffic to our distribution channels and increasing sales; • our ability to successfully identify and respond to emerging trends in the mattress and pillow industry; • our ability to maintain public association of our brand with premium products, including overcoming any impact on our brand caused by some of our customers seeking to sell our products at a discount to our recommended price; • the level of consumer acceptance of our products; and • general economic conditions and consumer confidence. Our sales growth is increasingly dependent on our ability to increase product sales in our existing retail accounts. A source of our growth over the last few years has been through expanding distribution of our products into new stores, principally furniture and bedding retail stores in the U.S. Our products are sold in approximately 4,990 retail store internationally. Our products are currently sold in approximately 6,350 furniture and bedding retail stores in the U.S., and our plan is to increase our total penetration to a total of 7,000 to 8,000 over time. As we approach this target, our sales growth will increasingly depend on our ability to generate additional sales in our existing accounts in the Retail channel. If we are unable to increase product sales in our existing retail accounts at a sufficient rate overall, our Net sales growth could slow, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our operating results are increasingly subject to fluctuations, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. A significant portion of our growth in Net sales is attributable to growth in sales in our Domestic Retail channel, particularly Net sales to furniture and bedding stores. We believe that our sales of mattresses and pillows to furniture and bedding stores are subject to seasonality inherent in the bedding industry with sales expected to be generally lower in the second and fourth quarters and higher in the first and third quarters, and in Europe, lower in the third quarter. Accordingly, our Net sales may be affected by this seasonality, particularly as our Domestic Retail sales channel continues to grow as a percentage of our overall Net sales and, to a lesser extent, by seasonality outside the Domestic segment. In addition to seasonal fluctuations, the demand for our premium products can fluctuate significantly based on a number of other factors, including general economic conditions and consumer confidence, and the timing of price increases announced by us or our competitors. We believe that as our consumer base continues to expand the average demographics of our consumer base will change, and be comprised of a greater percentage of middle income consumers. This change in our consumer base makes our business more susceptible to general economic factors that impact disposable income or consumer confidence. 8 Table of Contents Our advertising expenditures may not result in increased sales or generate the levels of product and brand name awareness we desire and we may not be able to manage our advertising expenditures on a cost-effective basis. A significant component of our marketing strategy involves the use of direct marketing to generate sales. Future growth and profitability will depend in part on the effectiveness and efficiency of our advertising expenditures, including our ability to create greater awareness of our products and brand name and determine the appropriate creative message and media mix for future advertising expenditures. We are subject to fluctuations in the cost of raw materials, and increases in these costs would reduce our liquidity and profitability. The major raw materials that we purchase for production are chemicals and proprietary additives. The price and availability of these raw materials are subject to market conditions affecting supply and demand, and prices have risen substantially on certain materials since August 2005. Our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by increases in raw material costs to the extent we are unable to absorb those increases and/or pass those higher costs to our customers. Loss of suppliers and disruptions in the supply of our raw materials could increase our costs of production and reduce our ability to compete effectively. We acquire chemicals and proprietary additives from a number of suppliers with manufacturing locations around the world. If we were unable to obtain chemicals and proprietary additives from these suppliers, we would have to find replacement suppliers. Any substitute arrangements for chemicals and proprietary additives might not be on terms as favorable to us. We maintain relatively small supplies of our raw materials at our manufacturing facilities, and any disruption in the on-going shipment of supplies to us could interrupt production of our products, which could result in a decrease of our sales, or could cause an increase in our cost of sales, and either of which could decrease our liquidity and profitability. In addition, we continue to outsource the procurement of certain goods and services, particularly mattress and pillow covers, from suppliers in foreign countries. If we were no longer able to outsource through suppliers, we could source it elsewhere, perhaps at a higher cost. To the extent we are unable to absorb those higher costs, or pass any such higher costs to our customers, our gross profit margin could be negatively affected, which could result in a decrease in our liquidity and profitability. We may face exposure to product liability claims, which could reduce our liquidity and profitability and reduce consumer confidence in our products. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims if the use of any of our products results in personal injury or property damage. In the event that any of our products prove to be defective, we may be required to recall, redesign or even discontinue those products. We maintain insurance against product liability claims, but such coverage may not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us or be adequate for liabilities actually incurred. A successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance coverage could impair our liquidity and profitability, and any claim or product recall that results in significant adverse publicity against us could result in consumers purchasing fewer of our products, which would also impair our liquidity and profitability. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in exchange rates, which could affect our results of operations, the costs of our products and our ability to sell our products in foreign markets. Approximately 34.5% of our Net sales were denominated in foreign currency for the year ended December 31, 2007. As a multinational company, we conduct our business in a wide variety of currencies and are therefore subject to market risk for changes in foreign exchange rates. We use foreign exchange forward contracts to manage a portion of the exposure to the risk of the eventual net cash inflows and outflows resulting from foreign currency denominated transactions between Tempur-Pedic International subsidiaries and their customers and suppliers, as well as between Tempur-Pedic International subsidiaries themselves from time to time. The hedging transactions may not succeed in managing our foreign currency exchange rate risk. See “ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Foreign Currency Exposures” in Part II of this report. 9 Table of Contents Foreign currency exchange rate movements also create a degree of risk by affecting the U.S. dollar value of sales made and costs incurred in foreign currencies. We do not enter into hedging transactions to hedge this risk. Consequently, our reported earnings and financial position could fluctuate materially as a result of foreign exchange gains or losses. Our outlook assumes no significant variance to 2007 currency exchange rates over the course of the year. Should currency rates change sharply, our results could be negatively impacted. See “ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Foreign Currency Exposures” in Part II of this report. Regulatory requirements may require costly expenditures and expose us to liability. Our products and our marketing and advertising programs are and will continue to be subject to regulation in the U.S. by various federal, state and local regulatory authorities, including the Federal Trade Commission and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. In addition, other governments and agencies in other jurisdictions regulate the sale and distribution of our products. Compliance with these regulations may have an adverse effect on our business. For example, the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission has adopted new rules relating to fire retardancy standards for the mattress and pillow industry. The State of California similarly adopted new fire retardancy standards in 2005. We developed product modifications that allow us to meet these new standards. Required product modifications have added cost to our products. Many foreign jurisdictions also regulate fire retardancy standards, and changes to these standards and changes in our products that require compliance with additional standards would raise similar risks. Our marketing and advertising practices could also become the subject of proceedings before regulatory authorities or the subject of claims by other parties. In addition, we are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to pollution, environmental protection and occupational health and safety. We may not be in complete compliance with all such requirements at all times. We have made and will continue to make capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental and health and safety requirements. If a release of hazardous substances occurs on or from our properties or any associated offsite disposal location, or if contamination from prior activities is discovered at any of our properties, we may be held liable and the amount of such liability could be material. An increase in our product return rates or an inadequacy in our warranty reserves could reduce our liquidity and profitability. Part of our Domestic marketing and advertising strategy in certain Domestic channels focuses on providing up to a 120-day money back guarantee under which customers may return their mattress and obtain a refund of the purchase price. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we had approximately $41.1 million in returns for a return rate of approximately 5.7% of our Net sales in the U.S. As we expand our sales, our return rates may not remain within our historical levels. An increase in return rates could significantly impair our liquidity and profitability. We also currently provide our customers with a limited, pro-rata 20-year warranty on mattresses sold in the U.S. and a limited 15-year warranty on mattresses sold outside of the U.S. However, as we have only been selling mattresses in significant quantities since 1992, and have released new products in recent years, many are fairly early in their product life cycles. We also provide 2-year to 3-year warranties on pillows. Because our products have not been in use by our customers for the full warranty period, we rely on the combination of historical experience and product testing for the development of our estimate for warranty claims. However, our actual level of warranty claims could prove to be greater than the level of warranty claims we estimated based on our products’ performance during product testing. If our warranty reserves are not adequate to cover future warranty claims, their inadequacy could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and profitability. We are subject to risks from our international operations, such as increased costs, which could impair our ability to compete and our profitability. We currently conduct international operations in approximately 80 countries, and we continue to pursue additional international opportunities. We generated approximately 34.5% of our Net sales from non-U.S. operations during the year ended December 31, 2007. Our international operations are subject to the customary risks of operating in an international environment, including complying with foreign laws and regulations and the potential imposition of trade or foreign exchange restrictions, tariff and other tax increases, fluctuations in exchange rates, inflation and unstable political situations, and labor issues. 10 Table of Contents On October 24, 2007, we received an income tax assessment from the Danish Tax Authority with respect to the 2001, 2002 and 2003 tax years. The tax assessment relates to the royalty paid by our U.S. companies to our Danish subsidiary and the position taken by the Danish Tax Authority could apply to subsequent years. Management is currently evaluating the assessment. We believe we have meritorious defenses to the proposed adjustment and will oppose the assessment in the Danish courts. However, there is a reasonable possibility that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits relating to this matter may change in the next twelve months. An estimate of the amount of such change cannot be made at this time. If we are not able to protect our trade secrets or maintain our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property, we may not be able to prevent competitors from developing similar products or from marketing in a manner that capitalizes on our trademarks, and this loss of a competitive advantage could decrease our profitability and liquidity. We rely on trade secrets to protect the design, technology and function of our TEMPUR® material and our products. To date, we have not sought U.S. or international patent protection for our principal product formula and manufacturing processes. Accordingly, we may not be able to prevent others from developing viscoelastic material and products that are similar to or competitive with our products. Our ability to compete effectively with other companies also depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our owned and licensed intellectual property. We own several patents on aspects of our products and have patent applications pending on aspects of our products and manufacturing processes. However, the principal product formula and manufacturing processes for our TEMPUR® material and our products are not patented and we must maintain these as trade secrets in order to protect this intellectual property. We own 15 U.S. patents, and we have 15 U.S. patent applications pending. Further, we own 55 foreign patents, and we have 44 foreign patent applications pending. In addition, we hold 411 trademark registrations worldwide. We own U.S. and foreign registered trade names and service marks and have applications for the registration of trade names and service marks pending domestically and abroad. We also license certain intellectual property rights from third parties. Our trademarks are currently registered in the U.S. and registered or pending in 123 foreign jurisdictions. However, those rights could be circumvented, or violate the proprietary rights of others, or we could be prevented from using them if challenged. A challenge to our use of our trademarks could result in a negative ruling regarding our use of our trademarks, their validity or their enforceability, or could prove expensive and time consuming in terms of legal costs and time spent defending against such a challenge. Any loss of trademark protection could result in a decrease in sales or cause us to spend additional amounts on marketing, either of which could decrease our liquidity and profitability. In addition, if we incur significant costs defending our trademarks, that could also decrease our liquidity and profitability. In addition, we may not have the financial resources necessary to enforce or defend our trademarks. Furthermore, our patents may not provide meaningful protection and patents may never issue from pending applications. It is also possible that others could bring claims of infringement against us, as our principal product formula and manufacturing processes are not patented, and that any licenses protecting our intellectual property could be terminated. If we were unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our intellectual property and our significant current or proposed products, this loss of a competitive advantage could result in decreased sales or increased operating costs, either of which would decrease our liquidity and profitability. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights and confidential information to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. or the European Union. Third parties, including competitors, may assert intellectual property infringement or invalidity claims against us that could be upheld. Intellectual property litigation, which could result in substantial cost to and diversion of effort by us, may be necessary to protect our trade secrets or proprietary technology, or for us to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others and to determine the scope and validity of others’ proprietary rights. We may not prevail in any such litigation, and if we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on reasonable terms or at all. Because we depend on our significant customers, a decrease or interruption in their business with us would reduce our sales and profitability. Our top five customers, collectively, accounted for 18.2% of our Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2007, and a portion of our growth in 2007 in our Retail channel was due to the growth of Net sales to our largest accounts. Many of our customer arrangements are by purchase order or are terminable at will at the option of either party. A substantial decrease or interruption in business from our significant customers could result in the loss of future business and could reduce our liquidity and profitability. 11 Table of Contents In the future, retailers may consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, experience financial difficulty, or realign their affiliations, any of which could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration in the retail industry. Some of these retailers may decide to carry only a limited number of brands of mattress products, which could affect our ability to sell our products to them on favorable terms, if at all. Our loss of significant customers would impair our sales and profitability and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We produce our products in three manufacturing facilities, and unexpected equipment failures, delays in deliveries, catastrophic loss delays may lead to production curtailments or shutdowns. We manufacture our products at our three facilities in Aarup, Denmark, in Duffield, Virginia and in Albuquerque, New Mexico. An interruption in production capabilities at these plants as a result of equipment failure could result in our inability to produce our products, which would reduce our sales and earnings for the affected period. For example, we produce pillows for our Domestic segment only at our Duffield, VA facility. An interruption in pillow production capabilities at this plant could result in a disruption of pillow distribution to the market. In addition, we generally deliver our products only after receiving the order from the customer or the retailer and thus do not hold large inventories. In the event of a disruption in production at any of our manufacturing facilities, even if only temporary, or if we experience delays as a result of events that are beyond our control, delivery times could be severely affected. For example, a third party carrier could potentially be unable to deliver our products within acceptable time periods due to a labor strike or other disturbance in its business. Any significant delay in deliveries to our customers could lead to increased returns or cancellations and cause us to lose future sales. Any increase in freight charges could increase our costs of doing business and affect our profitability. We have introduced new distribution programs to increase our ability to deliver products on a timely basis, but if we fail to deliver products on a timely basis, we may lose sales which could decrease our liquidity and profitability. Our manufacturing facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions or violent weather conditions. We may in the future experience material plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of equipment failure, delays in deliveries or catastrophic loss. Deterioration in labor relations could disrupt our business operations and increase our costs, which could decrease our liquidity and profitability. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately 1,400 full-time employees, with approximately 700 in the U.S., 300 in Denmark and 400 in the rest of the world. Certain of our employees in Denmark are under a government labor union contract, but those in the U.S. are not. Any significant increase in our labor costs could decrease our liquidity and profitability and any deterioration of employee relations, slowdowns or work stoppages at any of our locations, whether due to union activities, employee turnover or otherwise, could result in a decrease in our Net sales or an increase in our costs, either of which could decrease our liquidity and profitability. The loss of the services of any members of our senior management team could impair our ability to execute our business strategy and as a result, reduce our sales and profitability. We depend on the continued services of our senior management team. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to execute our business strategy and on our financial condition and results of operations. We do not maintain key-person insurance for members of our senior management team. In addition, the recent announcement of our President and Chief Executive Officer’s decision to retire effective mid-year 2008 may have an impact on our ability to execute our business strategy. Our board of directors will be required to devote time to conducting a search for a successor President and Chief Executive Officer. Our leverage limits our flexibility and increases our risk of default. As of December 31, 2007, we had $602.0 million in total Long-term debt outstanding. In addition, as of December 31, 2007, our Stockholders’ Equity was $48.1 million. Between October 2005 and November 30, 2007, we repurchased a total of $540.0 million in common stock pursuant to stock repurchase authorizations authorized by our Board of Directors. We funded the repurchase in part through borrowings under our 2005 Senior Credit Facility, which has substantially increased our leverage. On October 16, 2007, our Board of Directors authorized an additional stock repurchase of up to $300.0 million of our common stock. Our Board of Directors may authorize additional share repurchases in the future and we may fund these repurchases with debt. In addition, in the first quarter of 2007 our Board of Directors initiated a $0.24 cash dividend, paid in quarterly installments of $0.06. In the second quarter of 2007, our Board of Directors increased the quarterly dividend payment to $0.08. We paid a total of $23.8 million in dividends in 2007. Our Board has declared a dividend of $0.08 for the first quarter of 2008. 12 Table of Contents Our degree of leverage could have important consequences to our investors, such as: • limiting our ability to obtain in the future additional financing we may need to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, product development, acquisitions or other corporate requirements; and • requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development, acquisitions and other corporate requirements. In addition, the instruments governing our debt contain financial and other restrictive covenants, which limit our operating flexibility and could prevent us from taking advantage of business opportunities. In addition, our failure to comply with these covenants may result in an event of default. If such event of default is not cured or waived, we may suffer adverse effects on our operations, business or financial condition, including acceleration of our debt. We are vulnerable to interest rate risk with respect to our debt, which could lead to an increase in interest expense. We are subject to interest rate risk in connection with our issuance of variable rate debt under our 2005 senior credit facility. Interest rate changes could increase the amount of our interest payments and thus, negatively impact our future earnings and cash flows. We estimate that our annual interest expense on our floating rate indebtedness would increase by $6.0 million for each 1.0% increase in interest rates. See “ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Interest Rate Risk” in Part II of this report. Allegations of price fixing in the mattress industry could adversely affect our operations. Our retail pricing policies are subject to antitrust regulations in the U.S. and abroad. If antitrust regulators in any jurisdiction in which we do business initiate investigations into or challenge our pricing or advertising policies, our efforts to respond could force us to divert management resources and we could incur significant unanticipated costs. If such an investigation were to result in a charge that our practices or policies were in violation of applicable antitrust laws or regulations, we could be subject to significant additional costs of defending such charges in a variety of venues and, ultimately, if there were a finding that we were in violation of antitrust laws or regulations, there could be an imposition of fines, damages for persons injured, as well as injunctive or other relief. Any requirement that we pay fines or damages could decrease our liquidity and profitability, and any investigation that requires significant management attention or causes us to change our business practices could disrupt our operations, also resulting in a decrease in our liquidity and profitability. An antitrust class action suit against us could result in potential liabilities, substantial costs and the diversion of our management’s attention and resources, regardless of the outcome. See ITEM 3, “Legal Proceedings” in Part I of this report. General business and economic conditions could reduce our sales and profitability.. Our business can be affected by general business and economic conditions, both in the United States and abroad. Given the extent of our business in the United States, we could be exposed to downturns in the United States economy which could have a significant adverse impact on demand for our products. In addition in a poor economic environment there is a greater likelihood that more of our customers or retailers could become delinquent on their obligations to us or go bankrupt, which, in turn, could result in a higher level of charge-offs and provision for credit losses, all of which would adversely affect our earnings. General business and economic conditions that could affect us include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which we operate. Our stock price is likely to continue to be volatile, your investment could decline in value, and we may incur significant costs from class action litigation. The trading price of our common stock is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to wide price fluctuations. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to various factors, including: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results, including those resulting from seasonal variations in our business; • introductions or announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; 13 Table of Contents • disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters, and our ability to patent our products and technologies; • changes in estimates by securities analysts of our financial performance; • the declaration of a cash dividend and stock repurchase program; • conditions or trends in the specialty bedding industry, or the mattress industry generally; • additions or departures of key personnel; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • announcements by our competitors of their quarterly operating results or announcements by our competitors of their views on trends in the bedding industry; • regulatory developments in the U.S. and abroad; • economic and political factors; and • public announcements or filings with the SEC indicating that significant stockholders, directors or officers are selling shares of our common stock. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. These broad market factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in potential liabilities, substantial costs, and the diversion of our management’s attention and resources, regardless of the outcome. See ITEM 3, “Legal Proceedings” in Part I of this report. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur. In addition, these factors could make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. As of February 22, 2008, there were 74,595,057 shares of our common stock outstanding. All of our shares of our common stock are freely transferable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, except for certain shares of our common stock which were purchased by our executive officers, directors, principal stockholders, and some related parties. In addition, on December 24, 2003, we registered up to 14,983,532 shares of our common stock reserved for issuance upon the exercise of options previously granted under our 2002 Stock Option Plan and the exercise of options granted or reserved for grant under our 2003 Equity Incentive Plan and our 2003 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. In December 2003, the Board adoted a resolution that prohibited furter being made under the 2002 Stock Option Plan. Stockholders can sell these shares in the public market upon issuance, subject to restrictions under the securities laws. In 2007, one of our largest stockholders, a private equity fund that invested in our Company in 2002 in connection with the acquisition of our predecessor, made a distribution of our common stock to their investors totaling 5,275,000 shares. This shareholder continues to hold 4,479,187 shares of common stock and may choose to make additional distributions or sales of our common stock in the future. 14 Table of Contents Our current directors, officers and their affiliates own a large percentage of our common stock and could limit you from influencing corporate decisions. As of February 22, 2008, our executive officers, directors, and their respective affiliates, including one of our largest stockholders, own, in the aggregate, approximately 11% of our outstanding common stock on a fully diluted basis, after giving effect to the vesting of all unvested options. These stockholders, as a group, are able to influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including mergers, sales of assets, the election of all directors, and approval of other significant corporate transactions, in a manner with which you may not agree or that may not be in your best interest. Provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents could delay or prevent an acquisition of us, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to you. Provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws could hamper a third party’s acquisition of us, or discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. You may not have the opportunity to participate in these transactions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include: • our ability to issue preferred stock with rights senior to those of the common stock without any further vote or action by the holders of our common stock; • the requirements that our stockholders provide advance notice when nominating our directors; and • the inability of our stockholders to convene a stockholders’ meeting without the chairperson of the board, the president, or a majority of the board of directors first calling the meeting. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 