ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this report should be carefully considered. Please also see “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” on page 3. Risks Related To Our Business Set forth below are descriptions of certain risks relating to our business, which includes, upon consummation of the Sealy Acquisition, Sealy and its subsidiaries. Unfavorable economic and market conditions could reduce our sales and profitability and as a result, our operating results may be adversely affected. Our business has been affected by general business and economic conditions, and these conditions could have an impact on future demand for our products. Although demand in the U.S. mattress industry improved in 2012, the U.S. macroeconomic environment remains uncertain and was the primary factor in a slowdown in the mattress industry starting in 2008. In addition, our International segment experienced weakening as a result of general business and economic conditions. The global economy remains unstable, and we expect the economic environment to continue to be challenging as continued economic uncertainty has generally given households less confidence to make discretionary purchases. 10 Table of Contents In particular, the financial crisis that affected the banking system and financial markets and the current uncertainty in global economic conditions have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets and volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. There could be a number of other effects from these economic developments on our business, including reduced consumer demand for products; insolvency of our customers, resulting in increased provisions for credit losses; insolvency of our key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of retailers and consumers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products; decreased consumer confidence; decreased retail demand, including order delays or cancellations; and counterparty failures negatively impacting our treasury operations. If such conditions are experienced in future periods, our industry, business and results of operations may be severely impacted. In addition, the negative worldwide economic conditions and market instability makes it increasingly difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers to accurately forecast future product demand trends, which could cause us to produce excess products that can increase our inventory carrying costs. Alternatively, this forecasting difficulty could cause a shortage of products, or materials used in our products, that could result in an inability to satisfy demand for our products and a loss of market share. Our sales growth is dependent upon our ability to implement strategic initiatives and actions taken to increase sales growth may not be effective. Our ability to generate sales growth is dependent upon a number of factors, including the following: ● our ability to continuously improve our products to offer new and enhanced consumer benefits and better quality; ● ability of our future product launches to increase net sales; ● the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns and other marketing programs in building product and brand awareness, driving traffic to our distribution channels and increasing sales; ● our ability to continue to successfully execute our strategic initiatives; ● the level of consumer acceptance of our products; and ● general economic factors that negatively impact consumer confidence, disposable income or the availability of consumer financing. Over the last few years, we have had to manage our business both through periods of rapid growth and the uncertain economic environment. A source of our growth within this time frame has been through expanding distribution of our products into new stores, principally furniture and bedding retail stores in the U.S. Our products are currently sold in approximately 8,700 furniture and bedding retail stores in North America, out of a total of approximately 11,500 stores we have identified as appropriate targets. Within this addressable market, our plan is to increase our total penetration to a total of 9,000 to 10,000 over time. Our products are sold in approximately 5,750 retail stores internationally, out of a total of 8,000 that have been identified as appropriate targets. Some of these retail stores may undergo restructurings, experience financial difficulty or realign their affiliations, which could decrease the number of stores that carry our products. Our sales growth will increasingly depend on our ability to generate additional sales in our existing accounts in the Retail channel. If we are unable to increase product sales in our existing retail accounts at a sufficient rate overall, our net sales growth could slow or decline. In July 2012, we announced a broad series of new initiatives to address competitive market conditions, including new product introductions, the discontinuation of certain other products, warranty extensions and reductions in wholesale prices and manufacturer suggested retail prices. These initiatives were implemented in late third quarter of 2012 and into the fourth quarter of 2012, and therefore, we cannot assure you that they will have the desired results. In addition to the Sealy Acquisition, we may seek to acquire an additional business or businesses in order to increase sales growth, and any acquisition could be disruptive to our ongoing business, create integration issues, require additional borrowings or share issuances, or create other risks for our business. We operate in the highly competitive mattress and pillow industries, and if we are unable to compete successfully, we may lose customers and our sales may decline. Participants in the mattress and pillow industries compete primarily on price, quality, brand name recognition, product availability and product performance. Our premium mattresses compete with a number of different types of mattress alternatives, including standard innerspring mattresses, viscoelastic mattresses, foam mattresses, hybrid innerspring/foam mattresses, waterbeds, futons, air beds and other air-supported mattresses. These alternative products are sold through a variety of channels, including furniture and bedding stores, department stores, mass merchants, wholesale clubs, Internet, telemarketing programs, television infomercials and catalogs. 11 Table of Contents Our largest competitors have significant financial, marketing and manufacturing resources. They enjoy strong brand name recognition, and sell their products through broad and well established distribution channels. Additionally, a number of our significant competitors offer non-innerspring mattress and viscoelastic pillow products. Any such competition by established manufacturers or new entrants into the market could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The pillow industry is characterized by a large number of competitors, none of which are dominant, but many of which have greater resources than us. The highly competitive nature of the mattress and pillow industries means we are continually subject to the risk of loss of market share, loss of significant customers, reductions in margins, and the inability to acquire new customers. To date in 2012, the mattress market has been more competitive than at any time in our experience, which has adversely affected our results. In particular, others have expanded into specialty segments hurting our market share and margins, and hybrid mattresses can take sales away from specialty segments. If this environment continues and our response is not successful, our results would continue to be adversely affected. Because we depend on our significant customers, a decrease or interruption in their business with us would reduce our sales and profitability. Our top five customers, collectively, accounted for approximately 24.0% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2012, with one customer in our North American segment accounting for more than 10.0% of our net sales. The credit environment in which our customers operate has been relatively stable over the past few years. However, the continued management of credit risk by financial institutions has caused a decrease in the availability of credit for mattress retailers. In certain instances, this has caused mattress retailers to exit the market or be forced into bankruptcy. Furthermore, many of our customers rely in part on consumers’ ability to finance their mattress purchases with credit from third parties. If customers are unable to obtain financing, they may defer their purchases. We expect that some of the retailers that carry our products may consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, experience financial difficult, or realign their affiliations, any of which could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration in the retail industry. Some of these retailers may decide to carry only a limited number of brands of mattress products, which could affect our ability to sell products to them on favorable terms, if at all. A substantial decrease or interruption in business from these significant customers could result in the loss of future business and could reduce liquidity and profitability. We are subject to fluctuations in the cost raw materials, and increases in these costs would reduce our liquidity and profitability. The bedding industry has been challenged by volatility in the price of petroleum-based and steel products, which affects the cost of polyurethane foam, polyester, polyethylene foam and steel innerspring component parts. Domestic supplies of these raw materials are being limited by supplier consolidation, the exporting of these raw materials outside of the U.S. due to the weakened dollar and other forces beyond our control. The major raw materials that we purchase for production are chemicals and proprietary additives, which are influenced by oil prices. The price and availability of these raw materials are subject to market conditions affecting supply and demand. We and Sealy experienced increases in the price of certain raw materials during 2012, and we expect to encounter inflationary costs for certain raw materials in 2013. The prices of polyurethane foam did see some decreases in the fourth quarter as the price of toluene diisocyanate (“TDI”) and Polyol began to stabilize and demand trended down. Given the significance of the cost of these materials to our and Sealy’s products, volatility in the prices of the underlying commodities can significantly affect profitability. To the extent we are unable to absorb higher costs, or pass any such higher costs to our customers, our gross profit margin could be negatively affected, which could result in a decrease in our liquidity and profitability. 12 Table of Contents We are subject to a pending tax proceeding in Denmark, and an adverse decision would reduce our liquidity and profitability. During the fourth quarter of 2007, we received an income tax assessment from the Danish Tax Authority (“SKAT”) with respect to the 2001, 2002 and 2003 tax years, an assessment with respect to the 2004 tax year during the third quarter of 2010, and an assessment with respect to the 2005 tax year during the second quarter of 2011, relating to the royalty paid by one of Tempur-Pedic International’s U.S. subsidiaries to a Danish subsidiary. In addition, during the second quarter of 2012, the Company received an income tax assessment with respect to the 2006 tax year of approximately $28.5 million. The position taken by SKAT could apply to subsequent years. The cumulative total tax assessment for all years is approximately $146.2 million including interest and penalties. The Company filed timely protests with the Danish National Tax Tribunal challenging the tax assessments. The National Tax Tribunal formally agreed to place the Danish tax litigation on hold pending the outcome of a Bilateral Advance Pricing Agreement (“Bilateral APA”) between the United States and SKAT. A Bilateral APA involves an agreement between the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and the taxpayer, as well as a negotiated agreement with one or more foreign competent authorities under applicable income tax treaties. During the third quarter of 2008, we filed the Bilateral APA with the IRS and SKAT. U.S. and Danish competent authorities have met to discuss the Company’s Bilateral APA, and additional meetings are expected. SKAT and the IRS met several times since 2011, most recently in September 2012, to discuss the matter. There were no significant changes in the parties’ respective positions during 2012. The parties have agreed to meet again in the spring of 2013 to continue the negotiation process. In the event the discussions and negotiations from that meeting do not yield a satisfactory result for us, the next step for us to resolve the matter would be to seek resolution of this issue through an administrative proceeding before the Danish National Tax Tribunal (the “Tribunal”). The Tribunal is a branch of SKAT that is independent of the discussions and negotiations that have taken place to date. If the Tribunal does not rule to the satisfaction of one or both parties, the party seeking redress may choose to litigate the issue in the Danish court system. If we move from the Bilateral APA process to the Tribunal or a proceeding in the Danish court system, SKAT could require us to post a cash deposit or other security for taxes it has assessed in an amount to be negotiated, up to the full amount of the claim. We believe we have meritorious defenses to the proposed adjustments and will oppose the assessments before the Tribunal and in the Danish courts, as necessary. It is reasonably possible the amount of unrecognized tax benefits may change in the next twelve months. An estimate of the amount of such change cannot be made at this time. If we are not successful in defending our position to SKAT, the Tribunal or in the Danish courts that we owe no additional taxes, we could be required to pay significant amounts to SKAT, which could impair or reduce our liquidity and profitability. We may be unable to sustain our profitability, which could impair our ability to service our indebtedness and make investments in our business and could adversely affect the market price for our stock. Our ability to service our indebtedness depends on our ability to maintain our profitability. We may not be able to maintain our profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in future periods. Further, our profitability will depend upon a number of factors, including without limitation: ● general economic conditions in the markets in which we sell our products and the impact on consumers and retailers; ● the level of competition in the mattress and pillow industry; ● our ability to align our cost structure with sales in the existing economic environment; ● our ability to effectively sell our products through our distribution channels in volumes sufficient to drive growth and leverage our cost structure and advertising spending; ● our ability to reduce costs; ● our ability to absorb fluctuations in commodity costs; ● our ability to maintain efficient, timely and cost-effective production and utilization of our manufacturing capacity; ● our ability to successfully identify and respond to emerging trends in the mattress and pillow industry; and ● our ability to maintain public association of our brand with premium products, including overcoming any impact on our brand caused by some of our customers seeking to sell our products at a discount to our recommended price. Our new product launches may not be successful due to development delays, failure of new products to achieve anticipated levels of market acceptance and significant costs associated with failed product introductions, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Each year we invest significant time and resources in research and development to improve our respective product offerings. There are a number of risks inherent in our new product line introductions, including the anticipated level of market acceptance may not be realized, which could negatively impact our sales. Also, introduction costs, the speed of the rollout of the product and manufacturing inefficiencies may be greater than anticipated, which could impact profitability. 13 Table of Contents Our advertising expenditures and customer subsidies may not result in increased sales or generate the levels of product and brand name awareness we desire and we may not be able to manage our advertising expenditures on a cost-effective basis. A significant component of our marketing strategy involves the use of direct marketing to generate sales. Future growth and profitability will depend in part on the cost and efficiency of our advertising expenditures, including our ability to create greater awareness of our products and brand name and determine the appropriate creative message and media mix for future advertising expenditures and to incent the promotion of our products. Our operating results are increasingly subject to fluctuations, including as a result of seasonality, which could make sequential quarter to quarter comparisons an unreliable indication of our performance and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. A significant portion of our growth in net sales is attributable to growth in sales in our North American Retail channel, particularly net sales to furniture and bedding stores. We believe that our sales of mattresses and pillows to furniture and bedding stores are subject to seasonality inherent in the bedding industry, with sales expected to be generally lower in the second and fourth quarters and higher in the first and third quarters, and in Europe, lower in the third quarter. Our net sales may be affected increasingly by this seasonality, particularly as our North American Retail sales channel continues to grow as a percentage of our overall net sales and, to a lesser extent, by seasonality outside the North American segment. Our third quarter sales are typically higher than other quarters. This seasonality means that a sequential quarter to quarter comparison may not be a good indication of our performance or of how we will perform in the future. In addition to seasonal fluctuations, the demand for our premium products can fluctuate significantly based on a number of other factors, including general economic conditions, consumer confidence, the timing of new product introductions or price increases announced by us or our competitors and promotions we offer or offered by our competitors. As our consumer base continues to expand across a wider demographic, it may be comprised of a greater percentage of middle income consumers. As a result, our consumer base may be more susceptible to general economic factors impacted by decreased disposable income, consumer confidence or availability of consumer financing. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in exchange rates, which could affect our results of operations, the costs of our products and our ability to sell our products in foreign markets. Approximately 31.3% of our net sales were generated by our International segment for the year ended December 31, 2012. As a multinational company, we conduct our business in a wide variety of currencies and are therefore subject to market risk for changes in foreign exchange rates. We use foreign exchange forward contracts to manage a portion of the exposure to the risk of the eventual net cash inflows and outflows resulting from foreign currency denominated transactions between Tempur-Pedic International subsidiaries and their customers and suppliers, as well as among certain Tempur-Pedic International subsidiaries. The hedging transactions may not succeed in managing our foreign currency exchange rate risk. Refer to ITEM 7A under Part II of this report. Foreign currency exchange rate movements also create a degree of risk by affecting the U.S. dollar value of sales made and costs incurred in foreign currencies. We do not enter into hedging transactions to hedge this risk. Consequently, our reported earnings and financial position could fluctuate materially as a result of foreign exchange gains or losses. Our outlook for 2013 assumes consistent currency exchange rates versus the full year ended December 31, 2012. Should currency rates change sharply, our results could be negatively impacted. Refer ITEM 7A under Part II of this report. . 14 Table of Contents We are subject to risks from our international operations, such as foreign exchange, tariff, tax inflation, increased costs, political risks and our ability to expand in certain international markets, which could impair our ability to compete and our profitability. We currently conduct international operations in our approximately 23 wholly-owned subsidiaries and our products are sold in approximately 80 countries. We generated approximately 31.3% of our net sales from our International segment during the year ended December 31, 2012, and we continue to pursue additional international opportunities. Sealy generated approximately 22.6% of its net sales during their year ended November 27, 2011 from its international subsidiaries. Sealy also participates in international license and joint venture arrangements with independent third parties. Our and Sealy’s international operations are subject to the customary risks of operating in an international environment, including complying with foreign laws and regulations and the potential imposition of trade or foreign exchange restrictions, tariffs and other tax increases, fluctuations in exchange rates, inflation and unstable political situations and labor issues. Sealy is also limited in its ability to independently expand in certain international markets where it has granted licenses to manufacture and sell Sealy® bedding products. Sealy’s licensees in Australia, Jamaica and the United Kingdom have perpetual licenses, subject to limited termination rights. Sealy’s licensees in the Dominican Republic, the Bahamas, Continental European Union countries, Brazil, Israel, Japan, Saudi Arabia, South Africa and Thailand hold licenses with fixed terms with limited renewal rights. Fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the U.S. dollar and other currencies may affect our financial condition or results of operations. If we are not able to protect our trade secrets or maintain our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property, we may not be able to prevent competitors from developing similar products or from marketing in a manner that capitalizes on our trademarks, and this loss of a competitive advantage could decrease our profitability and liquidity. We rely on trade secrets to protect the design, technology and function of our TEMPUR® material and our products. To date, we have not sought U.S. or international patent protection for our principal product formula and manufacturing processes. Accordingly, we may not be able to prevent others from developing viscoelastic material and products that are similar to or competitive with our products. Our ability to compete effectively with other companies also depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our owned and licensed intellectual property. We own several patents on aspects of our products and have patent applications pending on aspects of our products and manufacturing processes. However, the principal product formula and manufacturing processes for our TEMPUR® material and our products are not patented and we must maintain these as trade secrets in order to protect this intellectual property. We own U.S. and foreign registered trade names and service marks and have applications for the registration of trade names and service marks pending domestically and abroad. We also license certain intellectual property rights from third parties. Our trademarks are currently registered in the U.S. and registered or pending in foreign jurisdictions. However, those rights could be circumvented, or violate the proprietary rights of others, or we could be prevented from using them if challenged. A challenge to our use of our trademarks could result in a negative ruling regarding our use of our trademarks, their validity or their enforceability, or could prove expensive and time consuming in terms of legal costs and time spent defending against such a challenge. Any loss of trademark protection could result in a decrease in sales or cause us to spend additional amounts on marketing, either of which could decrease our liquidity and profitability. In addition, if we incur significant costs defending our trademarks, that could also decrease our liquidity and profitability. In addition, we may not have the financial resources necessary to enforce or defend our trademarks. Furthermore, our patents may not provide meaningful protection and patents may never issue from pending applications. It is also possible that others could bring claims of infringement against us, as our principal product formula and manufacturing processes are not patented, and that any licenses protecting our intellectual property could be terminated. If we were unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our intellectual property and our significant current or proposed products, this loss of a competitive advantage could result in decreased sales or increased operating costs, either of which would decrease our liquidity and profitability. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights and confidential information to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. or the European Union. Third parties, including competitors, may assert intellectual property infringement or invalidity claims against us that could be upheld. Intellectual property litigation, which could result in substantial cost to and diversion of effort by us, may be necessary to protect our trade secrets or proprietary technology, or for us to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others and to determine the scope and validity of others’ proprietary rights. We may not prevail in any such litigation, and if we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on reasonable terms or at all. 15 Table of Contents An increase in our product return rates or an inadequacy in our warranty reserves could reduce our liquidity and profitability. Part of our North American marketing and advertising strategy in certain North American channels focuses on providing up to a 90-day money back guarantee under which customers may return their mattress and obtain a refund of the purchase price. For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, we had approximately $43.3 million and $46.7 million in returns for a return rate of approximately 4.5% and 4.6%, respectively, of our net sales in North America. As we expand our sales, our return rates may not remain within our historical levels. A downturn in general economic conditions may also increase our product return rates. An increase in return rates could significantly impair our liquidity and profitability. We also currently provide our customers a 25-year warranty on mattresses sold in North America and a 15-year warranty on mattresses sold in the International segment, each prorated. However, as we have only been selling mattresses in significant quantities since 1992, and have released new products in recent years, many of which are fairly early in their product life cycles, we may still see significant warranty claims on products still under warranty. We also provide a 3-year warranty on pillows. Sealy’s warranty policy provides a 10-year non-prorated warranty service period on all currently manufactured Sealy Posturepedic® and Bassett® bedding products and certain other Sealy® branded products. In addition, Sealy is beginning a 20 year, limited warranty (10 year non-prorated and 10 year additional warranty on certain components of its 2012 Optimum™ by Sealy Posturepedic® and Stearns & Foster® products). Also, Sealy has a 20-year warranty on the major components of its TrueForm and MirrorForm visco-elastic products and its SpringFree latex product, the last ten years of which are prorated on a straight-line basis. Though discontinued in 2008, Sealy offered a 20-year limited warranty on its RightTouch® product line which covered only certain parts of the product and will be prorated for part of the twenty years. Because not all of our products have been in use by our customers for the full warranty period, we and Sealy rely on the combination of historical experience and product testing for the development of our estimate for warranty claims. However, our actual level of warranty claims could prove to be greater than the level of warranty claims we estimated based on our products’ performance during product testing. If our warranty reserves are not adequate to cover future warranty claims, their inadequacy could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and profitability. We are vulnerable to interest rate risk with respect to our debt, which could lead to an increase in interest expense. We are subject to interest rate risk in connection with the variable rate debt under our debt agreements. Interest rate changes could increase the amount of our interest payments and thus, negatively impact our future earnings and cash flows. We estimate that our annual interest expense on our floating rate indebtedness would increase by $4.0 million for each 1.0% increase in interest rates. Refer to ITEM 7A under Part II of this report. Our leverage may limit our flexibility and increase our risk of default. As of December 31, 2012, we had $1,025.0 million in long-term debt outstanding. In addition, as of December 31, 2012, our stockholders’ equity was $22.3 million. During 2012, we repurchased a total of $150.0 million in common stock pursuant to stock repurchase authorizations approved by our Board of Directors. We funded the repurchases in part through borrowings under our existing credit facility, which increased our leverage. In addition, as discussed below under “Risks Relating to the Acquisition of Sealy,” we will incur significant additional debt to fund the Sealy Acquisition. Our degree of leverage could have important consequences to our investors, such as: ● limiting our ability to obtain additional financing we may need to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, product development, acquisitions or other corporate requirements; and ● requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development, acquisitions and other corporate requirements. In addition, the instruments governing our debt contain financial and other restrictive covenants, which limit our operating flexibility and could prevent us from taking advantage of business opportunities. Our failure to comply with these covenants may result in an event of default. If such event of default is not cured or waived, we may suffer adverse effects on our operations, business or financial condition, including acceleration of our debt. For further discussion regarding our debt covenants and compliance, refer to ITEM 7 under Part II of this report. 16 Table of Contents Loss of suppliers and disruptions in the supply of our raw materials could increase our costs of sales and reduce our ability to compete effectively. We acquire chemicals and proprietary additives from a number of suppliers with manufacturing locations around the world. If we were unable to obtain chemicals and proprietary additives from these suppliers, we would have to find replacement suppliers. Any substitute arrangements for chemicals and proprietary additives might not be on terms as favorable to us. In addition, we continue to outsource the procurement of certain goods and services, particularly mattress and pillow covers and adjustable bed bases, from suppliers in foreign countries. If we were no longer able to outsource through these suppliers, we could source it elsewhere, perhaps at a higher cost. In addition, if one of our major suppliers, or several of our suppliers, declare bankruptcy or otherwise cease operations, our supply chain could be materially disrupted. We maintain relatively small supplies of our raw materials and outsourced goods at our manufacturing facilities, and any disruption in the on-going shipment of supplies to us could interrupt production of our products, which could result in a decrease of our sales or could cause an increase in our cost of sales, either of which could decrease our liquidity and profitability. Sealy purchases its raw materials and certain components from a variety of suppliers, including box spring components from Leggett & Platt Inc., foam materials from Carpenter Co., and various subassemblies and components from national raw material and component suppliers. If Sealy experiences a loss or disruption in its supply of these components, it may have difficulty sourcing substitute components on terms favorable to it. In addition, any alternate source may impair product performance or require Sealy to alter its manufacturing process, which could have an adverse effect on its, and therefore our, profitability. Sealy is dependent upon a single supplier for certain structural components and assembly of its Embody® and Optimum™ by Sealy Posturpedic® specialty product lines. These products are purchased under a supply agreement and are manufactured in accordance with proprietary designs jointly owned by Sealy and the supplier. If Sealy experiences a loss or disruption in its supply of these products, it may have difficulty sourcing substitute components on favorable terms. In addition, any alternative source may impair product performance or require Sealy to alter the manufacturing process relating to these products, which could have an adverse effect on its, and therefore our, profitability. In addition, Sealy is dependent upon a single supplier for certain key polyurethane foam components which make up its various mattress brands. Such components are purchased under a supply agreement and are manufactured in accordance with proprietary process designs exclusive to the supplier. If Sealy experiences a loss or disruption in its supply of these components, it may have difficulty sourcing substitute components on favorable terms. In addition, any alternative source may impair product performance or require Sealy to alter its manufacturing process, which could have an adverse effect on its, and therefore our, profitability. We rely significantly on information technology and any failure, inadequacy, interruption or security lapse of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. Our ability to effectively manage our business depends significantly on our information systems. The failure of our current systems, or future upgrades, to operate effectively or to integrate with other systems, or a breach in security of these systems could cause reduced efficiency of our operations, and remediation of any such failure, problem or breach could reduce our liquidity and profitability. Certain of Sealy’s systems are dated and require significant upgrades. Sealy depends on accurate and timely information and numerical data from key software applications to aid its day-to-day business, financial reporting and decision making and, in many cases, aged and custom designed software is necessary to operate its bedding plants. Sealy has put in place disaster recovery plans for its critical systems. Sealy is, however, dependent on certain key personnel and consultants as these applications are no longer supported by the vendor. Any disruptions caused by the failure of these systems could adversely impact Sealy’s day-to-day business and decision making and could have a material adverse effect on its performance. We plan to integrate Sealy into our information systems but could suffer disruptions during such process. 17 Table of Contents We produce our products in three manufacturing facilities, and unexpected equipment failures, delays in deliveries or catastrophic loss delays may lead to production curtailments or shutdowns. We manufacture our products at our three facilities: in Aarup, Denmark; Duffield, Virginia; and Albuquerque, New Mexico. An interruption in production capabilities at any of these plants as a result of equipment failure could result in our inability to produce our products, which would reduce our sales and earnings for the affected period. For example, we produce pillows for our North American segment only at our Duffield, Virginia facility. An interruption in pillow production capabilities at this plant could result in a disruption of pillow distribution to the market. In addition, we generally deliver our products only after receiving the order from the customer or the retailer and thus do not hold significant levels of inventories. In the event of a disruption in production at any of our manufacturing facilities, even if only temporary, or if we experience delays as a result of events that are beyond our control, delivery times could be severely affected. For example, a third party carrier could potentially be unable to deliver our products within acceptable time periods due to a labor strike or other disturbance in its business. Any significant delay in deliveries to our customers could lead to increased returns or cancellations and cause us to lose future sales. Any increase in freight charges could increase our costs of doing business and affect our profitability. We have introduced new distribution programs to increase our ability to deliver products on a timely basis, but if we fail to deliver products on a timely basis, we may lose sales which could decrease our liquidity and profitability. Our manufacturing facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions or violent weather conditions. Despite the fact that we maintain insurance covering the majority of these risks, we may in the future experience material plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of equipment failure, delays in deliveries or catastrophic loss. Sealy manufactures and distributes products to its customers primarily on a just-in-time basis from its network of 27 company-owned and operated bedding and component manufacturing facilities located around the world. Sealy manufactures most bedding to order and employs just-in-time inventory techniques in its manufacturing process to more efficiently serve its dealers’ needs and to minimize their inventory carrying costs. Most bedding orders are scheduled, produced and shipped within five business days of receipt from Sealy’s plants located in proximity to a majority of its customers. If manufacturing is disrupted at these facilities, or if delivery times are adversely affected by events beyond our control, Sealy could lose sales, which could negatively impact its profitability. The loss of the services of any members of our senior management team could impair our ability to execute our business strategy and as a result, reduce our sales and profitability. We depend on the continued services of our senior management team. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to execute our business strategy and on our financial condition and results of operations. We do not maintain key-person insurance for members of our senior management team. Deterioration in labor relations could disrupt our business operations and increase our costs, which could decrease our liquidity and profitability. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 1,950 full-time employees, with approximately 850 in North America, 300 in Denmark and 800 in the rest of the world. Certain of our employees in Denmark are under a government labor union contract, but those in the U.S. are not. Any significant increase in our labor costs could decrease our liquidity and profitability and any deterioration of employee relations, slowdowns or work stoppages at any of our locations, whether due to union activities, employee turnover or otherwise, could result in a decrease in our net sales or an increase in our costs, either of which could decrease our liquidity and profitability. As of November 30, 2012, Sealy had 4,426 full-time employees. Approximately 67.0% of Sealy’s employees at its 25 North American plants are represented by various labor unions with separate collective bargaining agreements. Sealy’s current collective bargaining agreements, which are typically three years in length, expire at various times beginning in 2012 through 2014. Due to the large number of collective bargaining agreements, Sealy is periodically in negotiations with certain of the unions representing its employees. Sealy may at some point be subject to work stoppages by some of its employees and, if such events were to occur, there may be a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. Further, we may not be able to renew Sealy’s various collective bargaining agreements on a timely basis or on favorable terms, or at all. 18 Table of Contents We may face exposure to product liability claims, which could reduce our liquidity and profitability and reduce consumer confidence in our products. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims if the use of any of our products results in personal injury or property damage. In the event that any of our products prove to be defective, we may be required to recall, redesign or even discontinue those products. We maintain insurance against product liability claims, but such coverage may not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us or be adequate for liabilities actually incurred. A successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance coverage could impair our liquidity and profitability, and any claim or product recall that results in significant adverse publicity against us could result in consumers purchasing fewer of our products, which would also impair our liquidity and profitability. Regulatory requirements, including, but not limited to, trade, environmental, health and safety requirements, may require costly expenditures and expose us to liability. Our products and our marketing and advertising programs are and will continue to be subject to regulation in the U.S. by various federal, state and local regulatory authorities, including the Federal Trade Commission and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. In addition, other governments and agencies in other jurisdictions regulate the sale and distribution of our products. These rules and regulations may change from time to time. Compliance with these regulations may have an adverse effect on our business. There may be continuing costs of regulatory compliance including continuous testing, additional quality control processes and appropriate auditing of design and process compliance. For example, the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission (“CSPC”) has adopted rules relating to fire retardancy standards for the mattress industry. We developed product modifications that allow us to meet these standards. Required product modifications have added cost to our products. Many foreign jurisdictions also regulate fire retardancy standards, and changes to these standards and changes in our products that require compliance with additional standards would raise similar risks. Further, some states and the U.S. Congress continue to consider open flame regulations for mattresses and bed sets or integral components that may be different or more stringent than the CPSC standard and we may be required to make different products for different states or change our processes or distribution practices nationwide. It is possible that some states’ more stringent standards, if adopted and enforceable, could make it difficult to manufacture a cost effective product in those jurisdictions and compliance with proposed new rules and regulations may increase our costs, alter our manufacturing processes and impair the performance of our products. As we abide by certain new open flame regulations, our products and processes may be governed more rigorously by certain state and federal environmental and health and safety standards as well as the provisions of California Proposition 65 (the Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act of 1986) and 16 CFR Part 1633 (Standard for the Flammability (Open Flame) of Mattress Sets). Our marketing and advertising practices could also become the subject of proceedings before regulatory authorities or the subject of claims by other parties and could require us to alter or end these practices or adopt new practices that are not as effective or are more expensive. In addition, we are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to pollution, environmental protection and occupational health and safety. We may not be in complete compliance with all such requirements at all times. We have made and will continue to make capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental and health and safety requirements. If a release of hazardous substances occurs on or from our properties or any associated offsite disposal location, or if contamination from prior activities is discovered at any of our properties, we may be held liable and the amount of such liability could be material. As a manufacturer of bedding and related products, we use and dispose of a number of substances, such as glue, lubricating oil, solvents and other petroleum products, as well as certain foam ingredients, that may subject us to regulation under numerous foreign, federal and state laws and regulations governing the environment. Among other laws and regulations, we are subject in the United States to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Air Act and related state and local statutes and regulations. Our operations could also be impacted by a number of pending legislative and regulatory proposals to address greenhouse gas emissions in the U.S. and other countries. Certain countries including Denmark, where our only plant outside the United States is located, have adopted the Kyoto Protocol. Negotiations for a treaty that would succeed the Kyoto Protocol are ongoing, and this and other international initiatives under consideration could affect our International operations. These actions could increase costs associated with our operations, including costs for raw materials, pollution control equipment and transportation. Because it is uncertain what laws will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws on our future consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 19 Table of Contents We have made and will continue to make capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental and health and safety requirements. Upon consummation of the Sealy Acquisition, we will incur costs related to certain remediation activities related to Sealy’s business. Under various environmental laws, we may be held liable for the costs of remediating releases of hazardous substances at any properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or at any site to which we have sent or may send hazardous substances for disposal. In particular, Sealy is currently addressing the clean-up of environmental contamination at its former facility in South Brunswick, New Jersey and is awaiting additional information regarding an environmental condition at a former inactive facility located in Putnam, Connecticut, and expects to continue to incur significant costs to address the clean-up of these facilities. In the event of an adverse development or decision by one or more of the governing environmental authorities, additional contamination being discovered with respect to these or other properties or any third parties bringing claims related to these or other properties, these or other matters could have a material effect on our profitability after the Sealy Acquisition. Changes in tax laws and regulations or other factors could cause our and Sealy’s income tax rate to increase, potentially reducing net income and adversely affecting cash flows. We and Sealy are subject to taxation in various jurisdictions around the world. In preparing financial statements, we and Sealy calculate our respective effective income tax rate based on current tax laws and regulations and the estimated taxable income within each of these jurisdictions. Our and Sealy’s effective income tax rate, however, may be higher due to numerous factors, including changes in accounting, tax laws or regulations. For example, during the three months ended September 30, 2012, we changed the classification on our undistributed earnings from non-U.S. operations which resulted in an increase in our effective tax rate to 54.8%. A significantly higher effective income tax rate than currently anticipated after the Sealy Acquisition could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity. Officials in some of the jurisdictions in which we do business, including the United States, have proposed or announced that they are considering tax increases and other revenue raising laws and regulations. Any resulting changes in tax laws or regulations could increase our effective tax rate or impose new restrictions, costs or prohibitions on our and Sealy’s current practices and reduce our net income and adversely affect our cash flows. The recently enacted U.S. federal legislation on healthcare reform and proposed amendments thereto could impact the healthcare benefits required to be provided by us and cause compensation costs to increase, potentially reducing our net income and adversely affecting cash flows. The U.S. federal healthcare legislation enacted in 2010 and proposed amendments thereto contain provisions which could materially impact our future healthcare costs. While the legislation’s ultimate impact is not yet known, it is possible that these changes could significantly increase our compensation costs which would reduce our net income and adversely affect cash flows. Challenges to our pricing policies could adversely affect our operations. Our retail pricing policies are subject to antitrust regulations in the U.S. and abroad. If antitrust regulators in any jurisdiction in which we do business initiate investigations into or challenge our pricing or advertising policies, our efforts to respond could force us to divert management resources and we could incur significant unanticipated costs. If such an investigation were to result in a charge that our practices or policies were in violation of applicable antitrust or other laws or regulations, we could be subject to significant additional costs of defending such charges in a variety of venues and, ultimately, if there were a finding that we were in violation of antitrust or other laws or regulations, there could be an imposition of fines, and damages for persons injured, as well as injunctive or other relief. Any requirement that we pay fines or damages could decrease our liquidity and profitability, and any investigation or claim that requires significant management attention or causes us to change our business practices could disrupt our operations or increase our costs, also resulting in a decrease in our liquidity and profitability. An antitrust class action suit against us could result in potential liabilities, substantial costs and the diversion of our management’s attention and resources, regardless of the outcome. 20 Table of Contents Our stock price is likely to continue to be volatile, your investment could decline in value, and we may incur significant costs from class action litigation. The trading price of our common stock is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to wide price fluctuations. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to various factors, including but not limited to: ● actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results, including those resulting from seasonal variations in our business; ● general economic conditions, such as unemployment, changes in short-term and long-term interest rates and fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets; ● introductions or announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; ● disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters, and our ability to patent, or otherwise protect, our products and technologies; ● changes in estimates by securities analysts of our financial performance; ● stock repurchase programs; ● bankruptcies of any of our major customers; ● conditions or trends in the premium bedding industry, or the mattress industry generally; ● additions or departures of key personnel; ● announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; ● announcements by our competitors of their quarterly operating results or announcements by our competitors of their views on trends in the bedding industry; ● regulatory developments in the U.S. and abroad; ● economic and political factors; ● public announcements or filings with the SEC indicating that significant stockholders, directors or officers are buying or selling shares of our common stock; and ● the declaration or suspension of a cash dividend. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. These broad market factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in potential liabilities, substantial costs, and the diversion of our management’s attention and resources, regardless of the outcome. See ITEM 3 under Part I of this report. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur. In addition, these factors could make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. As of February 1, 2013, there were 59.8 million shares of our common stock outstanding. All of our shares of our common stock are freely transferable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, except for certain shares of our common stock which were purchased by our executive officers, directors, principal stockholders, and some related parties. In addition, up to approximately 18.5 million shares of our common stock are reserved for grants under our 2002 Stock Option Plan, our Amended and Restated 2003 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended and our 2003 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. As of December 31, 2012, equity awards covering approximately 4.3 million shares of common stock equity awards are outstanding and 2.0 million shares of common stock are available for future grants. The Company has filed registration statements with the SEC with respect to these shares and stockholders can sell these shares in the public market upon issuance, subject to restrictions under the securities laws and any applicable lock-up agreements. We have stockholders who presently beneficially own more than 5.0% of our outstanding capital stock. Sales or other dispositions of our shares by these major stockholders may depress our stock price. 21 Table of Contents Provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents could delay or prevent an acquisition of us, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to you. Provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws could hamper a third party’s acquisition of us, or discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. You may not have the opportunity to participate in these transactions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include: ● our ability to issue preferred stock with rights senior to those of the common stock without any further vote or action by the holders of our common stock; ● the requirements that our stockholders provide advance notice when nominating our directors; and ● the inability of our stockholders to convene a stockholders’ meeting without the chairperson of the board, the president, or a majority of the board of directors first calling the meeting. Risks Relating to the Acquisition of Sealy We may not be able to successfully integrate and combine Sealy with our business, which could cause our business to suffer. Our acquisition of Sealy is significant, and we may not be able to successfully integrate and combine the operations, personnel and technology of Sealy with our operations. Because of the size and complexity of Sealy’s business, if integration is not managed successfully by our management, we may experience interruptions in our business activities, a deterioration in our employee and customer relationships, increased costs of integration and harm to our reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also experience difficulties in combining corporate cultures, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees. The integration with Sealy may also impose substantial demands on our management. There is no assurance that improved operating results will be achieved as a result of the Sealy Acquisition or that the businesses of Sealy and the Company will be successfully integrated in a timely manner. We may not realize the growth opportunities that are anticipated from our acquisition of Sealy. The benefits we expect to achieve as a result of the Sealy Acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize anticipated growth opportunities. Our success in realizing these growth opportunities, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of Sealy’s business and operations with our business and operations. Even if we are able to integrate our business with Sealy’s business successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the growth opportunities we currently expect from this integration within the anticipated time frame or at all. While we anticipate that certain expenses will be incurred, such expenses are difficult to estimate accurately, and may exceed current estimates. In addition, certain retail customers of our combined companies could determine that the combined companies have too many slots in that retailer’s stores, and cut back on the number of slots available for our products or otherwise promote competitors’ products more aggressively, which could have a material adverse effect on the combined companies’ sales and offset the synergies expected from the Sealy Acquisition. Accordingly, the benefits from the proposed acquisition may be offset by costs incurred or delays in integrating the companies, which could cause our revenue assumptions to be inaccurate. We may not be able to achieve the full amount of cost synergies that are anticipated, or achieve the cost synergies on the schedule anticipated, from the Sealy Acquisition. Although we currently expect to achieve in excess of $40.0 million of cost synergies by the third year after the Sealy Acquisition, inclusion of the projected cost synergies in this Report on Form 10-K should not be viewed as a representation that we in fact will achieve these cost synergies by the third year or at all. 22 Table of Contents By 2015, we are currently targeting approximately 45.0% of synergies from consolidation of our and Sealy’s product warehouses and distribution routes resulting in improved route efficiency and distribution integration, approximately 30.0% of synergies from increased purchasing, supply chain and manufacturing efficiencies, principally focused on duplicative efforts, such as lower cost sourcing and combined manufacturing costs as we seek to leverage our combined capabilities and consolidation of purchasing across products, and approximately 25.0% of synergies from consolidation of various corporate expenses, including elimination of duplicative services and streamlining of corporate administration. In order to identify areas for potential synergies, we have undertaken the following efforts: ● Tempur-Pedic and Sealy senior management and functional area leaders have reviewed and continue to review functional areas across both our operations, on a standalone basis and on a combined basis; ● Tempur-Pedic and Sealy senior management team members, together with outside consultants, conducted an analysis assessing areas of duplication and projected growth, determining projected synergy levels from the perspective of both senior management and functional area leaders; and ● Tempur-Pedic and Sealy senior management teams conducted analyses to assess the cost savings opportunities related to distribution, supply chain, sourcing, manufacturing efficiencies and corporate expenses. For example, in the areas of distribution, each company assessed their respective costs to deliver mattresses and foundations on a per piece basis throughout their U.S. operations and the opportunity to leverage transportation capacity and improve service levels resulting in an anticipated substantial savings on a per piece delivery basis. Through this process, we have identified targeted cost synergies in various operating functions including manufacturing and distribution. We continue to evaluate our estimates of cost synergies to be realized from the Sealy Acquisition and refine them, so that our actual cost synergies could differ materially from our current estimates. Actual cost synergies, the expenses required to realize the cost synergies and the sources of the cost synergies could differ materially from these estimates, and we cannot assure you that we will achieve the full amount of cost synergies on the schedule anticipated or at all or that these cost synergy programs will not have other adverse effects on our business. In light of these significant uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on our estimated cost synergies. The assumption of unknown liabilities in the Sealy Acquisition may harm our financial condition and results of operations. As a result of the proposed acquisition, we will acquire Sealy subject to all of its liabilities, including contingent liabilities. If there are unknown Sealy obligations, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We may learn additional information about Sealy’s business that adversely affects us, such as unknown liabilities, or issues that could affect our ability to comply with applicable laws. As a result, we cannot assure you that the proposed acquisition of Sealy will be successful or will not, in fact, harm our business. Among other things, if Sealy’s liabilities are greater than expected, or if there are material obligations of which we do not become aware until after the time of completion of the Merger, our business could be materially and adversely affected. If we become responsible for substantial uninsured liabilities, such liabilities may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The market price of the common stock of the combined company may be affected by factors different from those affecting the market price for our common stock. Our business differs from that of Sealy, and the business of the combined company will differ from that of ours, and accordingly, the results of operations for the combined company may be affected by factors different from those currently affecting the results of operations of Sealy and may be affected by factors different from those currently affecting our results of operations. As a result, the market price for our stock may be impacted differently in the future by those factors than it is currently. Our historical financial information may not be representative of our results as a combined company. The historical financial information of the Company and Sealy may not be indicative of what the results of operations and financial condition will be in the future. The challenge of integrating previously independent businesses makes evaluating our business and our future financial prospects difficult. Our potential for future business success and operating profitability must be considered in light of the risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties typically encountered by recently combined companies. 23 Table of Contents We will have substantial amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business. As described in Part II, ITEM 8, Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, upon closing of the Sealy Acquisition, we will have significant amount of debt. We currently expect that upon completion of the Sealy Acquisition we will have approximately $1,900.0 million of total indebtedness outstanding. Our degree of leverage could have important consequences, such as: ● increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; ● requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and other business opportunities; ● making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; ● restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or investments or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; ● limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; ● limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industry in which we operate, placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged and who therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting; and ● exposing us to variability in interest rates, as a substantial portion of our indebtedness are and will be variable rate. In addition, the instruments governing our debt contain financial and other restrictive covenants, which limit our operating flexibility and could prevent us from taking advantage of business opportunities and reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Our failure to comply with these covenants may result in an event of default. If such event of default is not cured or waived, we may suffer adverse effects on our operations, business or financial condition, including acceleration of our debt. Failure to complete the Merger could subject us to significant damages, negatively impact our common stock price, businesses and financial results. If the acquisition is not completed, our ongoing businesses may be adversely affected, and we will be subject to several risks and consequences, including the following: ● the Merger Agreement contains certain termination rights for both the Company and Sealy and further provides that, upon termination of the Merger Agreement under certain circumstances, Sealy may be obligated to pay the Company a termination fee of $25.0 million. In addition, if antitrust enforcement agencies either commence or inform the parties that they intend to commence an action to enjoin the Merger, the Company may be required to pay Sealy (i) a termination fee of $90.0 million if both parties elect to terminate the Merger Agreement or (ii) a termination fee of $90.0 million (or $40.0 million if the Company elects to terminate the Merger Agreement but Sealy does not so elect to terminate) if the Merger does not close due to a failure to receive antitrust approval in the nine months following the execution of the Merger Agreement, subject to certain extensions; ● we will be required to pay interest obligations under the Senior Notes and ticking fees with respect to the 2012 Credit Agreement whether or not the Sealy Acquisition is completed; ● we will be required to pay certain costs relating to the Merger, whether or not the Merger is completed, such as underwriter, legal, accounting, financial advisor and printing fees; ● under the Merger Agreement, Sealy is subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of its business prior to completing the Merger which may adversely affect its ability to execute certain of its business strategies; and ● matters relating to the acquisition may require substantial commitments of time and resources by our management team, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us as an independent company. 24 Table of Contents In addition, if the acquisition is not completed, we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets and from each company’s respective customers and employees. We also could be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the Merger or to enforcement proceedings commenced against us to perform their respective obligations under the Merger Agreement. If the Merger is not completed, we cannot assure stockholders that the risks described above will not materialize and will not materially affect our business, financial results and stock price. We will incur significant transaction and acquisition-related integration costs in connection with the Sealy Acquisition. We expect to incur a number of costs associated with completing the acquisition and integrating the operations of the two companies. The substantial majority of these costs will be non-recurring expenses resulting from the Sealy Acquisition and will consist of transaction costs related to the acquisition, facilities and systems consolidation costs and employment-related costs. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of our business and Sealy's. Although we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, may offset incremental transaction and merger-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. The acquisition of Sealy may not be accretive and may cause dilution to the combined company's earnings per share, which may negatively affect the market price of the combined company's common stock. We currently anticipate that the acquisition will be accretive to our earnings per share in 2013. This expectation is based on preliminary estimates which may materially change. The combined company could also encounter additional transaction and integration-related costs or other factors such as the failure to realize all of the benefits anticipated in the acquisition. All of these factors could cause dilution to the combined company's earnings per share or decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the acquisition and cause a decrease in the price of the combined company's common stock. Sealy’s pension plans are currently underfunded and Sealy will be required to make cash payments to the plans, reducing the cash available for Sealy’s, and therefore our, business. Sealy has noncontributory, defined benefit pension plans covering current and former hourly employees at four of Sealy’s active plants and eight previously closed facilities as well as the employees of a facility of its Canadian operations. Sealy records a liability associated with these plans equal to the excess of the benefit obligation over the fair value of plan assets. The benefit liability recorded at November 27, 2011 was $11.4 million, and Sealy expects to make estimated minimum funding contributions totaling approximately $1.6 million in 2012. If the performance of the assets in these pension plans does not meet Sealy’s expectations, or if other actuarial assumptions are modified, Sealy’s future cash payments, and therefore ours, to the plans could be higher than expected. The domestic pension plan is subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”). Under ERISA, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (“PBGC”), has the authority to terminate an underfunded pension plan under limited circumstances. In the event Sealy’s pension plan is terminated for any reason while it is underfunded, we will incur a liability to the PBGC that may be equal to the entire amount of the underfunding. In addition, hourly employees working at certain of Sealy’s domestic manufacturing facilities are covered by union sponsored retirement and health and welfare plans. These plans cover both active employees and retirees. If a participating employer ceases its contributions to the plan, the unfunded obligations of the plan allocable to the withdrawing employer may be borne by the remaining participant employers. Further, if Sealy withdraws from a multi-employer pension plan in which it participates, Sealy may be required to pay those plans an amount based on its allocable share of the underfunded status of the plan. Such events may significantly impair our profitability and liquidity. Sealy is subject to tax assessments in Brazil and an inadequacy in Sealy’s reserves for these assessments could reduce our liquidity and profitability. During fiscal 2010, Sealy was assessed $8.0 million by the Brazilian government for the failure to provide certain income tax filings. Due to the accumulated net operating losses in this jurisdiction, Sealy’s exposure is expected to be limited. At August 26, 2012, Sealy has recorded a reserve of $1.0 million associated with this assessment related to the expected requirement to pay certain sales tax, fees and penalties. If, however, Sealy’s reserve is not adequate to cover the tax assessment, such inadequacy could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and profitability. 25 Table of Contents Several lawsuits have been filed against Sealy, Sealy's directors, Tempur-Pedic and certain wholly-owned subsidiaries of Tempur-Pedic, and an adverse ruling in such lawsuits may prevent the acquisition from becoming effective or from becoming effective within the expected timeframe or subject Sealy, Sealy’s directors, Tempur-Pedic and certain wholly-owned subsidiaries of Tempur-Pedic to post-closing liabilities. The Company is aware of six purported class action lawsuits relating to the Merger with Sealy, one in North Carolina state court and five in the Delaware Court of Chancery, filed by purported stockholders of Sealy against Sealy, Sealy’s directors, the Company and Silver Lightning Merger Company, a subsidiary of the Company (the “Merger Sub”). Justewicz v. Sealy Corp., et al. (‘‘North Carolina Action’’) was filed on October 3, 2012, in the General Court of Justice, Superior Court Division in North Carolina (‘‘North Carolina Court’’). On November 13, 2012, the Delaware Court of Chancery consolidated all five Delaware actions into a single action, which is now styled as In re Sealy Corporation Shareholder Litigation (‘‘Delaware Action’’). Plaintiff in the North Carolina Action and plaintiffs in the Delaware Action allege, among other things, that the defendants have breached their fiduciary duties to Sealy’s stockholders and that Sealy, the Company and Merger Sub aided and abetted the Sealy directors’ alleged breach of fiduciary duties. The complaints also claim that the consideration to be paid in the Merger to Sealy stockholders (the “Merger Consideration”) is inadequate, that the Merger Agreement contains unfair deal protection provisions, that Sealy’s directors are subject to conflicts of interests, and that the preliminary information statement filed by Sealy with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 30, 2012 omits material information concerning the negotiation process leading to the proposed transaction and the valuation of Sealy. On October 12, 2012, plaintiff in the North Carolina Action brought a Motion for Expedited Discovery and for a Hearing and Briefing Schedule on Plaintiff’s Motion for a Preliminary Injunction. On October 24, 2012, defendants in the North Carolina Action brought a Motion to Stay the North Carolina Action in favor of the Delaware Action. On November 7, 2012, the North Carolina Action plaintiff amended his complaint to add allegations claiming that the preliminary information statement filed by Sealy on October 30, 2012 did not provide sufficient information. Following briefing and a hearing on November 8, 2012, the North Carolina Court stayed the North Carolina Action. On November 19, 2012, plaintiffs in the Delaware Action filed a consolidated amended complaint, a motion for expedited proceedings, and a motion for a preliminary injunction. The Company believes that the allegations in these lawsuits are entirely without merit. On January 22, 2013, solely to avoid the burden, expense and uncertainties inherent in litigation, and without admitting any liability or wrongdoing, the parties to the Delaware Action entered into a memorandum of understanding setting forth an agreement-in-principle providing for a settlement of the Delaware Action (the “Proposed Settlement”). In connection with the Proposed Settlement, Sealy agreed to include certain supplemental disclosures in the information statement to be sent to Sealy stockholders. The Proposed Settlement provides for the release of all claims by Sealy stockholders concerning the Merger Agreement, the Merger, and the disclosures made in connection with the Merger, including all claims that were asserted or could have been asserted in the Delaware Action and the North Carolina Action. The Proposed Settlement does not provide for the payment of any additional monetary consideration to Sealy stockholders and the Proposed Settlement does not affect the rights of any Sealy stockholder to seek appraisal pursuant to Section 262 of the DGCL. The Proposed Settlement is subject to definitive documentation and approval by the Delaware Court of Chancery. One of the conditions of closing of the acquisition is that there is not any temporary restraining order, preliminary or permanent injunction or other order issued by a court of competent jurisdiction or other legal restraint or prohibition preventing the completion of the Merger. As such, notwithstanding the Proposed Settlement, if the plaintiffs are successful in obtaining an injunction prohibiting the defendants from completing the Merger on agreed upon terms, then such injunction may prevent the Merger from becoming effective, or from becoming effective in the expected timeframe. In addition, even if plaintiffs are not successful in obtaining an injunction prohibiting the completion of the Merger, in the event the Proposed Settlement is not finalized and approved by the Delaware Court of Chancery, one or more of these plaintiffs may continue to pursue their lawsuits seeking damages, interest costs, attorney’s fees and expert fees from one or more of the defendants after completion of the Merger. In addition, one or more holders of Sealy common stock may seek to pursue appraisal rights available under Delaware law. If these stockholders properly perfect appraisal rights, they could seek a post-closing determination that the $2.20 per share consideration payable in the Merger does not represent fair value for their shares, and if these plaintiffs are successful in any appraisal proceeding, we could be required to pay those plaintiffs more for their stock than the $2.20 per share payable in the Merger. 26 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 