ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this report should be carefully considered. Please also see “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” on page i. Unfavorable economic and market conditions could reduce our sales and profitability and as a result, our operating results may be adversely affected. Our business has been affected by general business and economic conditions, and these conditions could have an impact on future demand for our products. Although demand in the U.S. mattress industry, and in our business particularly, improved in 2011, the U.S. macroeconomic environment remains uncertain and was the primary factor in a slowdown in the mattress industry starting in 2008. In addition, our International segment experienced weakening as a result of general business and economic conditions. The global economy remains unstable, and we expect the economic environment to continue to be challenging as continued economic uncertainty has generally given households less confidence to make discretionary purchases. In particular, the financial crisis that affected the banking system and financial markets and the current uncertainty in global economic conditions have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets and volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. There could be a number of other effects from these economic developments on our business, including reduced consumer demand for products; insolvency of our customers, resulting in increased provisions for credit losses; insolvency of our key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of retailers and consumers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products; decreased consumer confidence; decreased retail demand, including order delays or cancellations; and counterparty failures negatively impacting our treasury operations. In addition, the negative worldwide economic conditions and market instability makes it increasingly difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers to accurately forecast future product demand trends, which could cause us to produce excess products that can increase our inventory carrying costs. Alternatively, this forecasting difficulty could cause a shortage of products, or materials used in our products, that could result in an inability to satisfy demand for our products and a loss of market share. 8 Table of Contents Our sales growth is dependent upon our ability to implement strategic initiatives and actions taken to increase sales growth may not be effective. Our ability to generate sales growth is dependent upon a number of factors, including the following: ● our ability to continuously improve our products to offer new and enhanced consumer benefits and better quality; ● our recent product launches significantly increased Net sales; however, future product launches may not be as successful; ● the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns and other marketing programs in building product and brand awareness, driving traffic to our distribution channels and increasing sales; ● our ability to continue to successfully execute our strategic initiatives; ● the level of consumer acceptance of our products; and ● general economic factors that negatively impact consumer confidence, disposable income or the availability of consumer financing. Over the last few years, we have had to manage our business both through periods of rapid growth and the uncertain economic environment. A source of our growth within this time frame has been through expanding distribution of our products into new stores, principally furniture and bedding retail stores in the U.S. Our products are currently sold in approximately 7,900 furniture and bedding retail stores in North America, and our plan is to increase our total penetration to a total of 9,000 to 10,000 over the long term. Our products are sold in approximately 5,200 retail stores internationally, out of a total of 8,000 that have been identified as appropriate targets. Some of these retail stores may undergo restructurings, experience financial difficulty or realign their affiliations, which could decrease the number of stores that carry our products. Our sales growth will increasingly depend on our ability to generate additional sales in our existing accounts in the Retail channel. If we are unable to increase product sales in our existing retail accounts at a sufficient rate overall, our Net sales growth could slow, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. In addition, we may seek to acquire an additional business or businesses in order to increase sales growth, and any acquisition could be disruptive to our ongoing business, create integration issues, require additional borrowings or share issuances, or create other risks for our business. We operate in the highly competitive mattress and pillow industries, and if we are unable to compete successfully, we may lose customers and our sales may decline. Participants in the mattress and pillow industries compete primarily on price, quality, brand name recognition, product availability and product performance. Our premium mattresses compete with a number of different types of mattress alternatives, including standard innerspring mattresses, viscoelastic mattresses, foam mattresses, waterbeds, futons, air beds and other air-supported mattresses. These alternative products are sold through a variety of channels, including furniture and bedding stores, department stores, mass merchants, wholesale clubs, telemarketing programs, television infomercials and catalogs. Our largest competitors have significant financial, marketing and manufacturing resources. They enjoy strong brand name recognition, and sell their products through broad and well established distribution channels. Additionally, a number of our significant competitors offer non-innerspring mattress and viscoelastic pillow products. Any such competition by established manufacturers or new entrants into the market could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The pillow industry is characterized by a large number of competitors, none of which are dominant, but many of which have greater resources than us. 9 Table of Contents Because we depend on our significant customers, a decrease or interruption in their business with us would reduce our sales and profitability. Our top five customers, collectively, accounted for approximately 20.0% of our Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2011. Many of our customer arrangements are by purchase order or are terminable at will at the option of either party. We expect that some of our retailers may consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, experience financial difficulty, or realign their affiliations, any of which could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration in the retail industry. Some of these retailers may decide to carry only a limited number of brands of mattress products, which could affect our ability to sell our products to them on favorable terms, if at all. A substantial decrease or interruption in business from our significant customers could result in the loss of future business and could reduce our liquidity and profitability. We are subject to fluctuations in the cost of raw materials, and increases in these costs would reduce our liquidity and profitability. The major raw materials that we purchase for production are chemicals and proprietary additives, which are influenced by oil prices. The price and availability of these raw materials are subject to market conditions affecting supply and demand. We experienced increases in the price of certain raw materials during 2011 and, we expect to encounter inflationary costs for raw materials in 2012. To the extent we are unable to absorb those higher costs, or pass any such higher costs to our customers, our gross profit margin could be negatively affected, which could result in a decrease in our liquidity and profitability. We are subject to a pending tax proceeding in Denmark, and an adverse decision would reduce our liquidity and profitability. During the fourth quarter of 2007, we received an income tax assessment from the Danish Tax Authority with respect to the 2001, 2002 and 2003 tax years and an assessment with respect to the 2004 tax year during the third quarter of 2010, and an assessment with respect to the 2005 tax during the second quarter of 2011. The tax assessments relate to the royalty paid by one of Tempur-Pedic International’s U.S. subsidiaries to a Danish subsidiary and the position taken by the Danish Tax Authority could apply to subsequent years. The total tax assessment is approximately $103.1 million including interest and penalties. We filed timely complaints with the Danish National Tax Tribunal denying the tax assessments. The National Tax Tribunal formally agreed to place the Danish tax litigation on hold pending the outcome of a Bilateral Advance Pricing Agreement (Bilateral APA) between the United States and the Danish Tax Authority. A Bilateral APA involves an agreement between the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the taxpayer, as well as a negotiated agreement with one or more foreign competent authorities under applicable income tax treaties. During the third quarter of 2008, we filed the Bilateral APA with the IRS and the Danish Tax Authority. The IRS began analyzing the Bilateral APA in the first quarter of 2009 and completed their review during the fourth quarter of 2010. The U.S. and Danish competent authorities met to discuss the Company’s Bilateral APA during the first quarter 2011 and fourth quarter 2011. An adverse decision could reduce or impair our liquidity and profitability. 10 Table of Contents We may be unable to sustain our profitability, which could impair our ability to service our indebtedness and make investments in our business and could adversely affect the market price for our stock. Our ability to service our indebtedness depends on our ability to maintain our profitability. We may not be able to maintain our profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in future periods. Further, our profitability will depend upon a number of factors, including without limitation: ● general economic conditions in the markets in which we sell our products and the impact on consumers and retailers; ● the level of competition in the mattress and pillow industry; ● our ability to align our cost structure with sales in the existing economic environment; ● our ability to effectively sell our products through our distribution channels in volumes sufficient to drive growth and leverage our cost structure and advertising spending; ● our ability to reduce costs; ● our ability to absorb fluctuations in commodity costs; ● our ability to maintain efficient, timely and cost-effective production and utilization of our manufacturing capacity; ● our ability to successfully identify and respond to emerging trends in the mattress and pillow industry; and ● our ability to maintain public association of our brand with premium products, including overcoming any impact on our brand caused by some of our customers seeking to sell our products at a discount to our recommended price. Our advertising expenditures may not result in increased sales or generate the levels of product and brand name awareness we desire and we may not be able to manage our advertising expenditures on a cost-effective basis. A significant component of our marketing strategy involves the use of direct marketing to generate sales. Future growth and profitability will depend in part on the cost and efficiency of our advertising expenditures, including our ability to create greater awareness of our products and brand name and determine the appropriate creative message and media mix for future advertising expenditures. Our operating results are increasingly subject to fluctuations, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. A significant portion of our growth in Net sales is attributable to growth in sales in our North American Retail channel, particularly Net sales to furniture and bedding stores. We believe that our sales of mattresses and pillows to furniture and bedding stores are subject to seasonality inherent in the bedding industry, with sales expected to be generally lower in the second and fourth quarters and higher in the first and third quarters, and in Europe, lower in the third quarter. Our Net sales may be affected increasingly by this seasonality, particularly as our North American Retail sales channel continues to grow as a percentage of our overall Net sales and, to a lesser extent, by seasonality outside the North American segment. In addition to seasonal fluctuations, the demand for our premium products can fluctuate significantly based on a number of other factors, including general economic conditions, consumer confidence, the timing of price increases announced by us or our competitors and promotions we offer or offered by our competitors. As our consumer base continues to expand across a wider demographic, it may be comprised of a greater percentage of middle income consumers. As a result, our consumer base may be more susceptible to general economic factors impacted by decreased disposable income, consumer confidence or availability of consumer financing. 11 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in exchange rates, which could affect our results of operations, the costs of our products and our ability to sell our products in foreign markets. Approximately 29.1% of our Net sales were generated by our International segment for the year ended December 31, 2011. As a multinational company, we conduct our business in a wide variety of currencies and are therefore subject to market risk for changes in foreign exchange rates. We use foreign exchange forward contracts to manage a portion of the exposure to the risk of the eventual net cash inflows and outflows resulting from foreign currency denominated transactions between Tempur-Pedic International subsidiaries and their customers and suppliers, as well as among certain Tempur-Pedic International subsidiaries. The hedging transactions may not succeed in managing our foreign currency exchange rate risk. See “ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Foreign Currency Exposures” in Part II of this report. Foreign currency exchange rate movements also create a degree of risk by affecting the U.S. dollar value of sales made and costs incurred in foreign currencies. We do not enter into hedging transactions to hedge this risk. Consequently, our reported earnings and financial position could fluctuate materially as a result of foreign exchange gains or losses. Our outlook for 2012 assumes modest unfavorable currency exchange rates versus the full year ended December 31, 2011. Should currency rates change sharply, our results could be negatively impacted. See “ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Foreign Currency Exposures” in Part II of this report. We are subject to risks from our international operations, such as increased costs, which could impair our ability to compete and our profitability. We currently conduct international operations in our 20 wholly-owned subsidiaries and our products are sold in approximately 80 countries. We generated approximately 29.1% of our Net sales from our International segment during the year ended December 31, 2011, and we continue to pursue additional international opportunities. Our international operations are subject to the customary risks of operating in an international environment, including complying with foreign laws and regulations and the potential imposition of trade or foreign exchange restrictions, tariffs and other tax increases, fluctuations in exchange rates, inflation and unstable political situations and labor issues. If we are not able to protect our trade secrets or maintain our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property, we may not be able to prevent competitors from developing similar products or from marketing in a manner that capitalizes on our trademarks, and this loss of a competitive advantage could decrease our profitability and liquidity. We rely on trade secrets to protect the design, technology and function of our TEMPUR® material and our products. To date, we have not sought U.S. or international patent protection for our principal product formula and manufacturing processes. Accordingly, we may not be able to prevent others from developing viscoelastic material and products that are similar to or competitive with our products. Our ability to compete effectively with other companies also depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our owned and licensed intellectual property. We own several patents on aspects of our products and have patent applications pending on aspects of our products and manufacturing processes. However, the principal product formula and manufacturing processes for our TEMPUR® material and our products are not patented and we must maintain these as trade secrets in order to protect this intellectual property. We own U.S. and foreign registered trade names and servicemarks and have applications for the registration of trade names and servicemarks pending domestically and abroad. We also license certain intellectual property rights from third parties. 12 Table of Contents Our trademarks are currently registered in the U.S. and registered or pending in foreign jurisdictions. However, those rights could be circumvented, or violate the proprietary rights of others, or we could be prevented from using them if challenged. A challenge to our use of our trademarks could result in a negative ruling regarding our use of our trademarks, their validity or their enforceability, or could prove expensive and time consuming in terms of legal costs and time spent defending against such a challenge. Any loss of trademark protection could result in a decrease in sales or cause us to spend additional amounts on marketing, either of which could decrease our liquidity and profitability. In addition, if we incur significant costs defending our trademarks, that could also decrease our liquidity and profitability. In addition, we may not have the financial resources necessary to enforce or defend our trademarks. Furthermore, our patents may not provide meaningful protection and patents may never issue from pending applications. It is also possible that others could bring claims of infringement against us, as our principal product formula and manufacturing processes are not patented, and that any licenses protecting our intellectual property could be terminated. If we were unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our intellectual property and our significant current or proposed products, this loss of a competitive advantage could result in decreased sales or increased operating costs, either of which would decrease our liquidity and profitability. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights and confidential information to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. or the European Union. Third parties, including competitors, may assert intellectual property infringement or invalidity claims against us that could be upheld. Intellectual property litigation, which could result in substantial cost to and diversion of effort by us, may be necessary to protect our trade secrets or proprietary technology, or for us to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others and to determine the scope and validity of others’ proprietary rights. We may not prevail in any such litigation, and if we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on reasonable terms or at all. An increase in our product return rates or an inadequacy in our warranty reserves could reduce our liquidity and profitability. Part of our North American marketing and advertising strategy in certain North American channels focuses on providing up to a 120-day money back guarantee under which customers may return their mattress and obtain a refund of the purchase price. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had approximately $46.7 million and $44.6 million in returns for a return rate of approximately 4.6% and 5.8%, respectively, of our Net sales in North America. As we expand our sales, our return rates may not remain within our historical levels. A downturn in general economic conditions may also increase our product return rates. An increase in return rates could significantly impair our liquidity and profitability. We also currently provide our customers with a limited, pro-rata 20-year warranty on mattresses sold in North America and a limited, pro-rata 15-year warranty on mattresses sold in the International segment. However, as we have only been selling mattresses in significant quantities since 1992, and have released new products in recent years, many of which are fairly early in their product life cycles. We also provide 2-year to 3-year warranties on pillows. Because not all of our products have been in use by our customers for the full warranty period, we rely on the combination of historical experience and product testing for the development of our estimate for warranty claims. However, our actual level of warranty claims could prove to be greater than the level of warranty claims we estimated based on our products’ performance during product testing. If our warranty reserves are not adequate to cover future warranty claims, their inadequacy could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and profitability. 13 Table of Contents We are vulnerable to interest rate risk with respect to our debt, which could lead to an increase in interest expense. We are subject to interest rate risk in connection with the variable rate debt under our credit facility (Senior Credit Facility). Interest rate changes could increase the amount of our interest payments and thus, negatively impact our future earnings and cash flows. We estimate that our annual interest expense on our floating rate indebtedness would increase by $3.4 million for each 1.0% increase in interest rates. See “ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Interest Rate Risk” in Part II of this report. Our leverage may limit our flexibility and increase our risk of default. As of December 31, 2011, we had $585.0 million in total Long-term debt outstanding. In addition, as of December 31, 2011, our Stockholders’ Equity was $30.8 million. During 2011 we repurchased a total of $368.5 million in common stock pursuant to stock repurchase authorizations approved by our Board of Directors. We funded the repurchases in part through borrowings under our Senior Credit Facility, which increased our leverage. On January 23, 2012, the Company's Board of Directors terminated the remaining authority under the July 2011 authorization, as amended in October 2011, and approved a new share repurchase authorization of up to $250.0 million of the Company's common stock. Our degree of leverage could have important consequences to our investors, such as: ● limiting our ability to obtain additional financing we may need to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, product development, acquisitions or other corporate requirements; and ● requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development, acquisitions and other corporate requirements. In addition, the instruments governing our debt contain financial and other restrictive covenants, which limit our operating flexibility and could prevent us from taking advantage of business opportunities. Our failure to comply with these covenants may result in an event of default. If such event of default is not cured or waived, we may suffer adverse effects on our operations, business or financial condition, including acceleration of our debt. For further discussion regarding our debt covenants and compliance, see “ITEM 7. Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations—Liquidity and capital resources” in Part II of this report. Loss of suppliers and disruptions in the supply of our raw materials could increase our costs of sales and reduce our ability to compete effectively. We acquire chemicals and proprietary additives from a number of suppliers with manufacturing locations around the world. If we were unable to obtain chemicals and proprietary additives from these suppliers, we would have to find replacement suppliers. Any substitute arrangements for chemicals and proprietary additives might not be on terms as favorable to us. In addition, we continue to outsource the procurement of certain goods and services, particularly mattress and pillow covers and adjustable bed bases, from suppliers in foreign countries. If we were no longer able to outsource through these suppliers, we could source it elsewhere, perhaps at a higher cost. In addition, if one of our major suppliers, or several of our suppliers, declare bankruptcy or otherwise cease operations, our supply chain could be materially disrupted. We maintain relatively small supplies of our raw materials and outsourced goods at our manufacturing facilities, and any disruption in the on-going shipment of supplies to us could interrupt production of our products, which could result in a decrease of our sales or could cause an increase in our cost of sales, either of which could decrease our liquidity and profitability. 14 Table of Contents We rely significantly on information technology and any failure, inadequacy, interruption or security lapse of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. Our ability to effectively manage our business depends significantly on our information systems. The failure of our current systems, or future upgrades, to operate effectively or to integrate with other systems, or a breach in security of these systems could cause reduced efficiency of our operations, and remediation of any such failure, problem or breach could reduce our liquidity and profitability. We produce our products in three manufacturing facilities, and unexpected equipment failures, delays in deliveries or catastrophic loss delays may lead to production curtailments or shutdowns. We manufacture our products at our three facilities: in Aarup, Denmark, Duffield, Virginia and Albuquerque, New Mexico. An interruption in production capabilities at any of these plants as a result of equipment failure could result in our inability to produce our products, which would reduce our sales and earnings for the affected period. For example, we produce pillows for our North American segment only at our Duffield, Virginia facility. An interruption in pillow production capabilities at this plant could result in a disruption of pillow distribution to the market. In addition, we generally deliver our products only after receiving the order from the customer or the retailer and thus do not hold significant levels of inventories. In the event of a disruption in production at any of our manufacturing facilities, even if only temporary, or if we experience delays as a result of events that are beyond our control, delivery times could be severely affected. For example, a third party carrier could potentially be unable to deliver our products within acceptable time periods due to a labor strike or other disturbance in its business. Any significant delay in deliveries to our customers could lead to increased returns or cancellations and cause us to lose future sales. Any increase in freight charges could increase our costs of doing business and affect our profitability. We have introduced new distribution programs to increase our ability to deliver products on a timely basis, but if we fail to deliver products on a timely basis, we may lose sales which could decrease our liquidity and profitability. Our manufacturing facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions or violent weather conditions. Despite the fact that we maintain insurance covering the majority of these risks, we may in the future experience material plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of equipment failure, delays in deliveries or catastrophic loss. The loss of the services of any members of our senior management team could impair our ability to execute our business strategy and as a result, reduce our sales and profitability. We depend on the continued services of our senior management team. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to execute our business strategy and on our financial condition and results of operations. We do not maintain key-person insurance for members of our senior management team. Deterioration in labor relations could disrupt our business operations and increase our costs, which could decrease our liquidity and profitability. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 1,800 full-time employees, with approximately 800 in North America, 300 in Denmark and 700 in the rest of the world. Certain of our employees in Denmark are under a government labor union contract, but those in the U.S. are not. Any significant increase in our labor costs could decrease our liquidity and profitability and any deterioration of employee relations, slowdowns or work stoppages at any of our locations, whether due to union activities, employee turnover or otherwise, could result in a decrease in our Net sales or an increase in our costs, either of which could decrease our liquidity and profitability. 15 Table of Contents We may face exposure to product liability claims, which could reduce our liquidity and profitability and reduce consumer confidence in our products. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims if the use of any of our products results in personal injury or property damage. In the event that any of our products prove to be defective, we may be required to recall, redesign or even discontinue those products. We maintain insurance against product liability claims, but such coverage may not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us or be adequate for liabilities actually incurred. A successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance coverage could impair our liquidity and profitability, and any claim or product recall that results in significant adverse publicity against us could result in consumers purchasing fewer of our products, which would also impair our liquidity and profitability. Regulatory requirements may require costly expenditures and expose us to liability. Our products and our marketing and advertising programs are and will continue to be subject to regulation in the U.S. by various federal, state and local regulatory authorities, including the Federal Trade Commission and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. In addition, other governments and agencies in other jurisdictions regulate the sale and distribution of our products. Compliance with these regulations may have an adverse effect on our business. For example, the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission has adopted rules relating to fire retardancy standards for the mattress industry. We developed product modifications that allow us to meet these standards. Required product modifications have added cost to our products. Many foreign jurisdictions also regulate fire retardancy standards, and changes to these standards and changes in our products that require compliance with additional standards would raise similar risks. Our marketing and advertising practices could also become the subject of proceedings before regulatory authorities or the subject of claims by other parties. In addition, we are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to pollution, environmental protection and occupational health and safety. We may not be in complete compliance with all such requirements at all times. We have made and will continue to make capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental and health and safety requirements. If a release of hazardous substances occurs on or from our properties or any associated offsite disposal location, or if contamination from prior activities is discovered at any of our properties, we may be held liable and the amount of such liability could be material. Our operations could also be impacted by a number of pending legislative and regulatory proposals to address greenhouse gas emissions in the U.S. Similarly, certain countries including Denmark, where our only plant outside the United States is located, have adopted the Kyoto Protocol, and this and other international initiatives under consideration could affect our international operations. These actions could increase costs associated with our operations, including costs for raw materials and transportation. Because it is uncertain what laws will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws on our future consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Challenges to our pricing policies could adversely affect our operations. Our retail pricing policies are subject to antitrust regulations in the U.S. and abroad. If antitrust regulators in any jurisdiction in which we do business initiate investigations into or challenge our pricing or advertising policies, our efforts to respond could force us to divert management resources and we could incur significant unanticipated costs. If such an investigation were to result in a charge that our practices or policies were in violation of applicable antitrust or other laws or regulations, we could be subject to significant additional costs of defending such charges in a variety of venues and, ultimately, if there were a finding that we were in violation of antitrust or other laws or regulations, there could be an imposition of fines, and damages for persons injured, as well as injunctive or other relief. Any requirement that we pay fines or damages could decrease our liquidity and profitability, and any investigation or claim that requires significant management attention or causes us to change our business practices could disrupt our operations or increase our costs, also resulting in a decrease in our liquidity and profitability. An antitrust class action suit against us could result in potential liabilities, substantial costs and the diversion of our management’s attention and resources, regardless of the outcome. See ITEM 3, “Legal Proceedings” in Part I of this report. 16 Table of Contents Our stock price is likely to continue to be volatile, your investment could decline in value, and we may incur significant costs from class action litigation. The trading price of our common stock is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to wide price fluctuations. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to various factors, including but not limited to: ● actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results, including those resulting from seasonal variations in our business; ● general economic conditions, such as unemployment, changes in short-term and long-term interest rates and fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets; ● introductions or announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; ● disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters, and our ability to patent, or otherwise protect, our products and technologies; ● changes in estimates by securities analysts of our financial performance; ● stock repurchase programs; ● bankruptcies of any of our major customers; ● conditions or trends in the premium bedding industry, or the mattress industry generally; ● additions or departures of key personnel; ● announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; ● announcements by our competitors of their quarterly operating results or announcements by our competitors of their views on trends in the bedding industry; ● regulatory developments in the U.S. and abroad; ● economic and political factors; ● public announcements or filings with the SEC indicating that significant stockholders, directors or officers are selling shares of our common stock; and ● the declaration or suspension of a cash dividend. 17 Table of Contents In addition, the stock market in general has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. These broad market factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in potential liabilities, substantial costs, and the diversion of our management’s attention and resources, regardless of the outcome. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur. In addition, these factors could make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. As of January 27, 2012, there were 63.8 million shares of our common stock outstanding. All of our shares of our common stock are freely transferable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, except for certain shares of our common stock which were purchased by our executive officers, directors, principal stockholders, and some related parties. In addition, up to approximately 18.5 million shares of our common stock are reserved for grants under our 2002 Stock Option Plan, our Amended and Restated 2003 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended and our 2003 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 4.4 million equity awards are outstanding and 2.9 million are available for future grants. The Company has filed registration statements with the SEC with respect to these shares and stockholders can sell these shares in the public market upon issuance, subject to restrictions under the securities laws and any applicable lock-up agreements. We have stockholders who presently beneficially own more than 5% of our outstanding capital stock. Sales or other dispositions of our shares by these major stockholders may depress our stock price. Our current directors, officers and their affiliates own a large percentage of our common stock and could limit you from influencing corporate decisions. As of January 27, 2012 our executive officers, directors, and their respective affiliates own, in the aggregate, approximately 4% of our outstanding common stock on a fully diluted basis, after giving effect to the vesting of all unvested options. These stockholders, as a group, are able to influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including mergers, sales of assets, the election of directors, and approval of other significant corporate transactions, in a manner with which you may not agree or that may not be in your best interest. In addition, we have stockholders who own more than 5% of our outstanding common stock, and as a result, may be able to influence matters requiring the approval of stockholders and the approval of other significant corporate transactions. Provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents could delay or prevent an acquisition of us, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to you. Provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws could hamper a third party’s acquisition of us, or discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. You may not have the opportunity to participate in these transactions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include: ● our ability to issue preferred stock with rights senior to those of the common stock without any further vote or action by the holders of our common stock; ● the requirements that our stockholders provide advance notice when nominating our directors; and ● the inability of our stockholders to convene a stockholders’ meeting without the chairperson of the board, the president, or a majority of the board of directors first calling the meeting. 18 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 