Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a number of risks. We describe below the material risks and uncertainties that affect our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider all of these risks and all other information included or incorporated in this report. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks occur, our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our securities could decline significantly, and you could lose all or a part of your investment. Risks Associated with Franklin We may be unable to successfully continue to implement our growth business strategy, which may adversely affect our future prospects and financial performance. Our strategic plan is directed toward enhancement of our return to our stockholders through a significant increase in our asset size, the increase in new customer deposit accounts, the expansion of our commercial and consumer loan products and expansion into growing markets outside metropolitan areas in Texas. This requires: • that we find attractive market opportunities so that we may profitably execute our strategic plan; • that we continue to profitably build our products to provide us with the revenue to support our expansion; • that we identify, hire and retain qualified employees, and maintain the information systems, necessary to manage our growth; • continued compliance with regulatory requirements applicable to our business; and • the use of a substantial amount of more rate sensitive “brokered” deposits to fund our asset growth. Brokered deposits are deposits that we obtain from or through a deposit broker. Such deposits constituted approximately 45% of our total deposits as of December 31, 2006. Changes in the general and regional economic environment, such as an increase in mortgage rates or a decline in the housing market, may prevent us from originating or purchasing loans in volumes and on terms sufficient to support our strategic plan. Changes in general market conditions may materially and adversely affect our ability to find the necessary funding to support our growth. In addition, we may be unable to find and retain additional staff necessary to support our anticipated growth in our business activities, and the information systems supplied by our vendors may be inadequate to support this growth. Finally, because we are a highly regulated institution, our growth strategy could raise regulatory concerns that could in turn prevent us from implementing all or part of our strategic plan. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to identify and acquire other financial institutions and successfully integrate our business with those of the companies that we have acquired or acquire in the future, our business and earnings may be adversely affected. We intend to grow by acquisitions, including but not limited to the acquisition of other financial institutions, branch offices and loan portfolios. Since our acquisition of Franklin Bank, we have acquired six financial institutions, have one such acquisition pending, and have completed two branch acquisitions. We intend to continue to consider other potential acquisition opportunities in the future. Other potential future transactions may be effected quickly, may occur at any time and may be significant in size relative to our existing assets and operations. However, no assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully make such acquisitions on terms acceptable to us. The market for acquisition targets is highly competitive, which may adversely affect our ability to find acquisition candidates that fit our growth strategy. To the extent that we are unable to find suitable acquisition targets, an important component of our growth strategy may not be realized. Acquisitions will be subject to regulatory approval, and we may be unable to obtain such approvals. In addition, some acquisitions will likely 18 Table of Contents require us to consolidate data processing operations, combine employee benefit plans, create joint account and lending products and develop unified marketing plans, which could increase our operating costs significantly. Furthermore, our ability to grow through acquisitions will depend on our maintaining sufficient regulatory capital levels and on general and regional economic conditions. We may also elect to finance future acquisitions with debt financings, which would increase our debt service requirements, or through the issuance of additional common or preferred stock, which could result in dilution to our stockholders. There can be no assurance that we will be able to arrange adequate financing for any acquisitions on acceptable terms. Our ability to successfully integrate future transactions will depend primarily on our ability to consolidate operations, systems and procedures and to eliminate redundancies and costs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to integrate our operations without encountering difficulties, such as the loss of key employees and customers, the imposition of regulatory restrictions, the disruption of our ongoing business or possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. The integration process also may require significant time and attention from our management that would otherwise be directed at developing our existing business. Estimated cost savings projected to come from various areas that we identified through our due diligence and integration planning process may not materialize. If we have difficulties with any of these integrations, we might not achieve the economic benefits we expect to result from these acquisitions and this would likely hurt our business and our earnings. In addition, we may experience greater than expected costs or difficulties relating to the integration of these operations, and may not realize expected cost savings from these acquisitions within the expected time frames. We have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to predict our future prospects and financial performance. We have only been operating as the holding company for Franklin Bank since April 10, 2002. Due to this limited operating history, it may be difficult to evaluate our business prospects. We rely, in part, on external financing to fund our operations and the unavailability of such funds in the future could adversely affect our growth strategy and prospects. Our ability to implement our business strategy will depend on our ability to obtain funding for acquisitions, loan originations, working capital and other general corporate purposes. We do not anticipate that our community banking and commercial deposits will be sufficient to meet our funding needs. We therefore have relied, and expect to continue to rely on wholesale and brokered deposits, Federal Home Loan Bank advances and other wholesale funding sources to obtain the funds necessary to implement our growth strategy. Because these funds generally are more sensitive to rates than community banking deposits, they are more likely to move to the highest rate available. To the extent we are not successful in obtaining such funding, we will be unable to implement our strategy as planned, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our reliance on brokered deposits to fund our growth may substantially increase our funding costs. In addition, regulatory constraints may limit our ability to acquire these deposits. Brokered deposits, which are more sensitive to changes in interest rates than are community banking deposits, constituted approximately 45% of our total deposits at December 31, 2006. Brokered deposits are priced based on the current general level of interest rates and, unlike retail deposits, do not take into account regional pricing. Our ability to continue to acquire brokered deposits is subject to our ability to price these deposits at competitive levels, which may substantially increase our funding costs. In addition, if the bank’s capital levels were to fall below “well capitalized” under the Prompt Corrective Action standards of the FDIC, our ability to accept, renew or roll over these deposits would be subject to our receiving a waiver from the FDIC. Furthermore, we would be limited on the rate that we could pay for these deposits to 75 basis points over the effective yield on comparable deposits that we offer in our normal market area or the national rate for comparable deposits outside our normal market. Failure to receive a waiver from the FDIC, if required, would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 19 Table of Contents Our small business, commercial real estate and consumer loan portfolios have significant geographic concentration in Texas and an economic slowdown, natural disaster or depressed real estate market in our primary markets could be detrimental to our financial condition. A substantial portion of our small business, commercial real estate and consumer loans are to customers located in Travis, Bastrop, Llano, Cherokee, Gregg, Henderson, Panola and Smith Counties in Texas. Most of these loans are secured by real estate in these counties. In addition, we have five banking offices in Jefferson and Wharton counties located near the Texas gulf coast. Our operations in those areas are susceptible to damage associated with hurricanes, such as high winds, flooding, tornados and similar risks. The occurrence of a major hurricane on the Texas gulf coast or other natural disaster in our Texas markets could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations in the areas affected by such disaster. A deterioration in economic conditions in these counties could have a material adverse effect on the quality of these portfolios and the demand for our products and services. In addition, during periods of economic recession, we may experience a decline in collateral values and an increase in delinquencies. Accordingly, the ultimate collectability of a substantial portion of our commercial loan portfolio is susceptible to economic changes in these markets. A significant downturn in the real estate market in these areas would be detrimental to our financial condition. In addition, if any of these developments were to result in losses that materially and adversely affected Franklin Bank’s capital, we and Franklin Bank might be subject to regulatory restrictions on operations and growth and to a requirement to raise additional capital. Our loan portfolio may be significantly affected by the economy of California. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 23.9% of the principal amount of our loan portfolio was secured by properties located in California. Consequently, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are likely to be significantly affected by economic conditions in California, particularly those affecting the residential real estate markets. In addition, mortgaged properties in California may be particularly susceptible to certain types of uninsurable hazards, such as earthquakes, floods, mudslides or other natural disasters. An overall decline in the economy or the residential real estate market, or the occurrence of a natural disaster, in California could materially and adversely affect the value of the mortgaged properties located there and increase the risk of delinquency, foreclosure, bankruptcy or loss on mortgage loans in our portfolio. These events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to continue to purchase single family loans in bulk from the entities with which we currently have correspondent relationships, or other entities, our business and financial results may suffer. Our single family mortgage loans held for investment were $2.1 billion at December 31, 2006. In order to maintain this portfolio at a constant balance, in 2006 we purchased $1.2 billion of single family mortgage loans. The single family loan purchases were primarily through correspondent relationships with Countrywide Home Loans Inc., which accounted for approximately 47% of total purchases, Residential Funding Corp., which accounted for 22%, and Morgan Stanley, which accounted for approximately 21% of total purchases during the year ended December 31, 2006. We are not contractually obligated to purchase loans from any of these entities on an ongoing basis. If we are unable to continue to purchase single family loans from these or other entities our business and financial results may suffer. The majority of our single family loan portfolio consists of newly originated loans which may cause our loan portfolio to experience increased losses as the loans season. At December 31, 2006, approximately 84% of our single family loan portfolio was comprised of single family mortgage loans that are less than three years old. Losses on single family mortgage loans generally occur after the loans are three years old. Therefore, we may experience a significant increase in losses on our single family mortgage loans as these loans age, and we may have to increase our allowance for credit losses accordingly. Additionally, losses on single family loans may occur before they have aged over three years. These may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 20 Table of Contents We are subject to losses resulting from fraudulent and negligent acts on the part of loan applicants, mortgage brokers, correspondents or other third parties. We rely heavily upon information supplied by third parties, including the information contained in loan applications, property appraisals, title information and employment and income documentation, in deciding which loans we will originate, as well as the terms of those loans. Additionally, our mortgage banker finance product poses a particular risk of losses due to fraudulently or improperly documented collateral. If any of the information upon which we rely is misrepresented, either fraudulently or inadvertently, and the misrepresentation is not detected prior to loan funding, the value of the loan may be significantly lower than we had expected, or we may fund a loan that we would not have funded or on terms we would not have extended. Whether a misrepresentation is made by the loan applicant, the mortgage broker or another third party, we generally bear the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation. A loan subject to a material misrepresentation is typically unsalable or subject to repurchase if it has been sold prior to detection of the misrepresentation. After a loss from a misrepresentation occurs, the source is often difficult to locate, and it is often difficult to recover any of the monetary losses we have suffered. Although we have controls and processes designed to help us identify misrepresentations contained in information furnished to us in our loan origination operations, we cannot assure you that we have detected or will detect all misrepresentations in our loan origination operations. We are subject to losses resulting from the nature of our mortgage banker finance borrowers. The small- and medium-sized mortgage companies to which we market our mortgage banker finance products generally tend to be more thinly capitalized than are other commercial borrowers, which increases the risk that these borrowers will become over-leveraged or experience cash flow difficulties. Therefore, our lending in this product exposes us to an increased risk that our borrowers may experience financial difficulties and be unable to perform as required under their loans, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As of December 31, 2006, we had $288.0 million in warehouse lines committed, of which $150.7 million was outstanding. Our business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may adversely affect our financial performance. The majority of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and subject us to significant risk from changes in interest rates. Like most financial institutions, changes in interest rates can impact our net interest income as well as the valuation of our assets and liabilities. Based on our one-year cumulative interest rate gap at December 31, 2006 of negative $193.2 million, an increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect our net yield on interest-earning assets since our interest-bearing liabilities reprice faster than our interest earning assets. In addition, due to the periodic caps which limit interest rate changes on our mortgage-backed securities and loans that pay interest at adjustable rates, an increase in rates greater than the periodic interest rate caps on these loans, usually 2.00% per year, may adversely affect our interest income earned on these assets. It is quite possible that significant changes in interest rates may take place in the future, although we cannot predict the nature or magnitude of such changes or how such changes may affect our business. Additionally, an increase in interest rates may, among other things, reduce the demand for loans and our ability to originate loans. A decrease in the general level of interest rates may affect us through, among other things, increased prepayments on our loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolios and increased competition for deposits. Accordingly, changes in the level of market interest rates affect our net yield on interest-earning assets, loan origination volume, loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolios, and our overall results. Our profitability is dependent to a large extent on our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between: • interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities; and • interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits. Fluctuations in interest rates are not predictable or controllable. Changes in interest rates can have differing effects on various aspects of our business, particularly on our net interest income and the cost of purchasing 21 Table of Contents residential mortgage loans in the secondary market. In particular, changes in market interest rates, changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates, or changes in the relationships between different interest rate indices, can affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income and therefore reduce our net interest income. Additionally, in periods of rising interest rates mortgage loan originations typically decline, depending on the overall performance of the economy. To the extent that our mortgage originations decline, our income from mortgage banking may also decline. Our mortgage origination activities are subject to interest rate risk that may adversely affect our earnings. We originate single family mortgage loans to be sold into the secondary market. As part of this process we may commit to an interest rate to the borrower prior to selling the loan into the secondary market. In order to mitigate the risk that a rise in market interest rates will cause a decline in the value of the loan, we may enter into forward sales agreements at the time the loan’s interest rate is set. We enter into these forward sales agreements based on the amount of the loans we have committed to make at a particular interest rate and the amount of these commitments we expect to fund. Because we use an estimate of the amount of loans that we expect to close, actual funding amounts may vary. We tend to close a higher percentage of loans with committed interest rates lower than the current market and lower percentages of loans that have a committed interest rate greater than the current market. These variances may have a negative effect on our earnings. In addition, because the forward sales agreements may be executed at different rates than the loan commitment, these agreements may not respond to changes in interest rates to the same degree as the mortgage loan. As of December 31, 2006, we had $33.4 million in fixed rate mortgage loans with committed rates that had not closed and $18.6 million in forward sales agreements allocated to these commitments based on an expected close rate of 63%. We face strong competition from other financial institutions and financial service companies offering services similar to those offered by us, which could hurt our business. The banking business is highly competitive, and our profitability depends principally upon our ability to compete in the markets in which our banking operations are located. We compete with thrifts, commercial banks, credit unions, mortgage companies, specialty finance companies, brokerage firms, investment banks, insurance companies and other financial services companies that may offer more favorable financing than we offer. Many of these competitors are more established than we are and have greater financial and other resources. We can give you no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively as we continue to implement our growth strategy. Federal statutes and rules governing federally chartered banks and thrifts allow those entities to engage in mortgage and other lending in multiple states on a substantially uniform basis and without the need to comply with state licensing and other laws affecting mortgage lenders, including so-called state “predatory lending” laws directed at certain residential mortgage loans that are defined as “high cost” and that have other features found objectionable in such state legislation. Accordingly, Franklin Bank, as a state chartered savings bank, may be subject to state legal requirements and legal risks under state laws to which federally chartered competitors are not subject and this disparity may have the effect of giving those entities legal and competitive advantages. We are subject to extensive regulation and supervision that could materially and adversely affect our financial performance. Savings and loan holding companies and Texas state savings banks operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to extensive supervision and examination by several state and federal agencies. We are subject to examination and supervision by the OTS, since we elected to be treated as a savings and loan holding company. It is possible that the OTS may adopt additional limitations on savings and loan holding companies, although the OTS has not proposed any specific limitations at this time. 22 Table of Contents Franklin Bank, as a Texas state savings bank, is subject to regulation and supervision by the TDSML. Franklin Bank is also regulated by the FDIC, as administrator of the DIF, and with respect to capital distributions, by the OTS. These regulations are intended primarily for the protection of depositors and customers, rather than for the benefit of stockholders and creditors. We are subject to changes in federal and state laws, as well as changes in regulations and governmental policies, income tax laws and accounting principles. The effects of any potential changes cannot be predicted but could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. In particular, because we have a high-growth strategy, this regulatory environment could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows if any of these agencies determines that we must change our strategy or otherwise imposes additional restrictions or requirements that limit our business flexibility. We are dependent on key individuals and on our continued ability to attract qualified and experienced personnel. The loss of one or more of these key individuals, or our inability to continue to attract such personnel, could curtail our growth and materially and adversely affect our prospects. We are dependent on certain members of our management, including Anthony J. Nocella, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Daniel E. Cooper, our Managing Director of Mortgage Banking, Michael Davitt, our Managing Director of Commercial Lending, Andy Black, our President and Chief Operating Officer, and Russell Workman, our President of Commercial Lending — Community Bank. The unexpected loss of any of these members of management could have a material adverse effect on us. Our success also depends on our continued ability to attract and retain experienced loan officers and support staff, as well as other management personnel. We currently do not have employment agreements or non-competition agreements with any of our existing loan officers and the loss of the services of several of such key personnel could materially and adversely affect our growth strategy and prospects to the extent we are unable to replace such personnel. Competition for loan officers is strong within builder finance, mortgage banker finance and mortgage banking industries and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining the personnel we require. Our allowance for credit losses may be insufficient to cover actual losses, which could materially and adversely affect our financial performance. Our allowance for credit losses was $11.7 million, or 0.25% of total loans outstanding and 88.0% of non-performing loans, as of December 31, 2006. Significant increases to the allowance for credit losses may be necessary if material adverse changes in general economic conditions occur and the performance of our loan portfolio deteriorates. In addition, if we had to foreclose on assets, additional adjustments may be necessary to ensure that the foreclosed assets are carried at the lower of cost or fair value, less estimated cost to dispose of the foreclosed assets. As a part of their examinations, the FDIC and TDSML periodically review Franklin Bank’s estimated losses on loans and the carrying value of our assets. Increases in the provision for credit losses and other real estate owned could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. An interruption in or breach of our information systems may result in lost business. We rely heavily on communications and information systems furnished by third party service providers to conduct our business. Any failure or interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or interruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, servicing and/or loan origination systems. We cannot assure you that such failures or interruptions will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed by us or the third parties on which we rely. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 23 Table of Contents We rely on information system technology from third party service providers, and we may not be able to obtain substitute providers on terms that are as favorable if our relationships with our existing service providers are interrupted. We rely on third party service providers for much of our information technology systems, including customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, servicing and loan origination systems. If any of these third party service providers experience financial, operational or technological difficulties, or if there is any other disruption in our relationships with them, we may be required to locate alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure you that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality as found in our existing systems without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. We are exposed to environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to residential and commercial properties and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury and investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Our internal controls for financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent all possible errors that could occur. Internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objective will be met. Each quarter, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer evaluate our internal controls for financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures, which includes a review of the objectives, design, implementation and effect of the controls in respect of the information generated for use in our periodic reports. In the course of our controls evaluation, we seek to identify data errors, control problems and to confirm that appropriate corrective action, including process improvements, were being undertaken. The overall goals of these various evaluation activities are to monitor our internal controls for financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures and to make modifications as necessary. Our intent in this regard is that our internal controls for financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures will be maintained as dynamic systems that change (including with improvements and corrections) as conditions warrant. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be satisfied. Our management has concluded that our internal controls for financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to give a reasonable assurance that they are effective to achieve their objectives. We cannot provide absolute assurance that all possible future control issues within our company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the possibility that judgments in our decision-making could be faulty, and that isolated breakdowns could occur because of simple human error or mistake. The design of our system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed absolutely in achieving our stated goals under all potential future or unforeseeable conditions. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error could occur and not be detected. War and threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism may impact our results of operations in unpredictable ways. We do not know the impact that any potential future terrorist attacks may have on the financial services industry in general and on our business in particular. An act of terrorism directed at the financial infrastructure of the United States may affect our operations, and these effects may be material. 24 Table of Contents Risks Associated with an Investment in our Preferred Shares Dividends on the preferred shares are non-cumulative. Dividends on the preferred shares are non-cumulative. Consequently, if our board of directors (or a duly authorized committee of the board) does not authorize and declare a dividend for any dividend period, holders of the preferred shares will not be entitled to receive any dividend for such dividend period, and such unpaid dividend will cease to be payable. We will have no obligation to pay dividends for a dividend period if our board of directors (or a duly authorized committee of the board) has not declared such dividend, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent dividend period with respect to the preferred shares or any other preferred stock we may issue. Unless full dividends for the latest completed dividend period have been declared and paid on the preferred shares, the terms of the preferred shares provide that dividends may not be paid or declared on our common stock or other junior stock during the current dividend period, and that we may not purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire common stock or junior stock during the current dividend period, subject to certain exceptions. Because of these provisions and the fact that dividends on the preferred shares are non-cumulative, the only dividend period during which we will be precluded from paying dividends on or acquiring common stock or other junior stock after failing to pay a dividend on the preferred shares is the dividend period immediately after the dividend period for which we did not pay dividends on the preferred shares. We did not pay any dividend on our common stock in 2006 or 2005. We currently do not intend to pay any dividends on our common stock. The preferred shares are equity and are subordinate to our existing and future indebtedness. The preferred shares are equity interests and do not constitute indebtedness. As such, the preferred shares will rank junior as to dividends and in liquidation to all of our indebtedness and other non-equity claims on us with respect to assets available to satisfy claims on us, including our deposit and other liabilities. Our existing and future indebtedness may restrict payments of dividends on the preferred shares. Additionally, unlike indebtedness, where principal and interest would customarily be payable on specified due dates, in the case of preferred stock like the preferred shares: • dividends are payable only when, as and if declared by our board of directors (or a duly authorized committee of the board of directors); and • we may only make payments of dividends or of a redemption price out of lawfully available funds. We may issue additional preferred shares and/or shares of preferred stock ranking on parity with the preferred shares as to dividends, distributions of our assets on our liquidation or both without the consent of the holders of preferred shares. Without the consent of the holders of the preferred shares, we may issue additional preferred shares and/or shares of another class or series of preferred stock ranking: • on a parity with the preferred shares as to dividends, but not as to the distribution of our assets in liquidation, dissolution or winding up, which we refer to as “dividend parity stock;” • on a parity with the preferred shares as to the distribution of our assets in liquidation, dissolution or winding up, but not as to dividends, which we refer to as “liquidation parity stock;” and/or • on a parity with the preferred shares as to both dividends and the distribution of our assets in liquidation, dissolution or winding up, which we refer to as “parity stock.” Upon the declaration of a dividend, we are required to pay the holders of any shares of dividend parity stock or parity stock at the same time and in the same proportions as we are required to pay to the holders of the preferred shares. Upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, we are required to pay to the holders of any shares of liquidation parity stock or parity stock at the same time and in the same proportions as we are required to pay to the holders of the preferred shares. Consequently, if we do not have sufficient funds to pay scheduled dividends to the holders of the dividend parity stock, parity stock and the preferred shares, we may not declare or pay a portion of the scheduled dividends on 25 Table of Contents the preferred shares. Similarly, upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, if we do not have sufficient funds to pay the full liquidation amount to the holders of liquidation parity stock, parity stock and the preferred shares, you may receive less than the liquidation amount of your preferred shares. Our ability to pay dividends on the preferred shares is dependent on the receipt of dividends from Franklin Bank. Because we are a holding company with no significant assets other than Franklin Bank, we depend upon dividends from Franklin Bank for all of our revenues. Accordingly, our ability to pay dividends depends upon our receipt of dividends or other capital distributions from Franklin Bank. The declaration of dividends by Franklin Bank is subject to the discretion of its board of directors. In addition, Franklin Bank’s ability to pay dividends to us is subject to the regulatory authority of the TDSML, the OTS, and the FDIC. The manner in which these regulatory authorities may affect our ability to pay dividends on our preferred shares is similar to the manner in which they may affect our ability to pay dividends on our common shares, which is discussed under the caption “ — Risks Associated with an Investment in Our Common Stock — We currently do not intend to pay any dividends on our common stock. In addition, our future ability to pay dividends is subject to restrictions. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gains for the foreseeable future.” A default under our junior subordinated notes would prevent us from paying dividends on or redeeming the preferred shares. At December 31, 2006, we had outstanding four issues of variable rate junior subordinated notes aggregating $105 million. The junior subordinated notes were issued by us in exchange for funds received from the sale of variable rate trust preferred securities by four of our subsidiaries. The junior subordinated notes mature at various dates in 2032 and 2035, and we may prepay them at various dates beginning in 2007 and 2010. We will be unable to pay dividends on or redeem any of the preferred shares if an event of default on our junior subordinated notes occurs and is continuing. The redemption provisions of the preferred shares and regulatory restrictions applicable to Franklin Bank may cause the preferred shares to be redeemed or to remain outstanding when not advantageous to holders of preferred shares. We may not redeem the preferred shares until on or after May 10, 2011, and any redemption thereafter will be dependent upon the receipt of funds for such use from Franklin Bank, which must satisfy regulatory requirements applicable to the declaration and payment of dividends to us. While we may redeem the preferred shares at any time on or after May 10, 2011, we are not required to do so. Consequently, we may be unable or may choose not to redeem the preferred shares at a time when you would like us to do so. Additionally, because we have the sole discretion to redeem the preferred shares on or after May 10, 2011, we may choose to redeem the preferred shares at a time when holders of preferred shares would prefer we not do so. The current favorable tax treatment on dividends received by individual U.S. taxpayers will expire on December 31, 2010 unless extended by Congress. Dividends paid to individual U.S. holders of preferred shares through December 31, 2010 generally are taxable to the holder at a maximum rate of 15%, subject to satisfaction of certain requirements. Unless Congress extends this provision prior to its expiration, after December 31, 2010, dividends on the preferred shares will be taxable at the ordinary income rate then in effect, which is currently a maximum of 35% for individuals. We can give no assurance that the current provision will be extended, or that Congress will not take action prior to December 31, 2010 to increase the maximum rate of tax payable with respect to dividends received. The voting rights of holders of the preferred shares are limited. Holders of the preferred shares have no voting rights with respect to matters that generally require the approval of voting shareholders. The limited voting rights of holders of the preferred shares include the right to vote as a class on certain fundamental matters that may affect the preference or special rights of the preferred shares. In addition, if 26 Table of Contents we have failed to pay dividends on the preferred shares on six quarterly dividend payment dates (whether or not consecutive), the holders of the preferred shares, together with the holders of any dividend parity stock or parity stock similarly entitled, shall be entitled to elect two additional directors to our board of directors. An active trading market for the preferred shares may not develop. Prior to the offering of the preferred shares, there was no existing market for the preferred shares. Although the preferred shares are listed for trading on the American Stock Exchange, an active trading market may not develop for the preferred shares. Even if a secondary market for the preferred shares develops, it may not provide significant liquidity, and transaction costs in any secondary market could be high. As a result, the difference between bid and ask prices in any secondary market could be substantial. General market conditions and unpredictable factors could adversely affect market prices for the preferred shares. The preferred shares may trade at prices higher or lower than the initial public offering price. Several factors, many of which are beyond our control, may influence the market value of the preferred shares, including but not limited to: • whether dividends have been declared or are likely to be declared on the preferred shares from time to time; • our creditworthiness; • the market for similar securities; and • economic, financial, geopolitical, regulatory or judicial events that affect us or the financial markets generally. Accordingly, the preferred shares may trade at a discount to the price paid for them by holders. An investment in the preferred shares involves risks, is not an insured deposit, and has no certainty of return. Risks Associated with an Investment in Our Common Stock The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile. On December 18, 2003, we completed an initial public offering of our common stock, which is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. While there has been an active trading market in our common stock since the initial public offering, we cannot assure you that an active trading market in our common stock will be sustained. Even if active trading of our common stock continues, the market price of the common stock may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market price of our common stock declines significantly, you may be unable to resell your shares at or above the price at which the shares were acquired. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could adversely affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations; • failure to be covered by securities analysts, or failure by us to meet securities analysts’ expectations; • success of our operating strategies; • realization of any of the risks described in this section; • prevailing interest rates; • decline in the stock price of companies that are our peers; or • general market and economic conditions. Because we are a relatively new public company, and prior to our initial public offering there was no active trading market in our common stock, these fluctuations may be more significant for us than they would be for a company whose stock has been publicly traded over an extended period of time. 27 Table of Contents In addition, the stock market has experienced in the past, and may in the future experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. These market fluctuations may materially and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. We currently do not intend to pay any dividends on our common stock. In addition, our future ability to pay dividends is subject to restrictions. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gains for the foreseeable future. We currently do not intend to pay any dividends on our common stock. In addition, since we are a holding company with no significant assets other than Franklin Bank, we depend upon dividends from Franklin Bank for all of our revenues. Accordingly, our ability to pay dividends depends upon our receipt of dividends or other capital distributions from Franklin Bank. We are restricted from paying any dividends on our common stock if an event of default has occurred on our junior subordinated notes. Additionally, unless full dividends for the latest completed dividend period have been declared and paid on the preferred shares, the terms of the preferred shares provide that dividends may not be paid or declared on our common stock or other junior stock during the current dividend period, and that we may not purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire common stock or junior stock during the current dividend period, subject to certain exceptions. Franklin Bank’s ability to pay dividends to us is subject to the regulatory authority of the TDSML, the OTS and the FDIC. Under Texas law, a Texas state savings bank is permitted to pay dividends out of current or retained income, although the TDSML reserves the right to restrict dividends for safety and soundness reasons or if the savings bank has less than zero total retained income on the date the dividend is declared. As of December 31, 2006, Franklin Bank could have paid approximately $51.1 million in dividends. The FDIC has the authority to prohibit the bank from engaging in an unsafe or unsound practice in conducting its business and under such authority could impose dividend restrictions. Further, the FDIC has established guidelines with respect to the maintenance of appropriate levels of capital by savings banks under its jurisdiction. Compliance with the standards set forth in such guidelines and the restrictions that are or may be imposed under the Prompt Corrective Action provisions described herein could limit the amount of dividends which the bank may pay to the company. The FDIC prohibits an insured depository institution from paying dividends on its capital stock or interest on its capital notes or debentures (if such interest is required to be paid only out of net profits) or distributing any of its capital assets while it remains in default in the payment of any assessment due the FDIC. The bank is not in default in any assessment payment to the FDIC. Franklin Bank is required to give the OTS 30 days’ notice before making any dividend to us. The OTS may object to the dividend if it believes the distribution will be unsafe and unsound. An application to the FDIC is also necessary if any distribution would cause Franklin Bank to become less than adequately capitalized. Neither the OTS nor the FDIC is likely to approve any distribution that would cause Franklin Bank to fail to meet its capital requirements or to become under-capitalized on a pro forma basis after giving effect to the proposed distribution. The FDIC has back-up authority to take enforcement action if it believes that a capital distribution by Franklin Bank constitutes an unsafe or unsound action or practice, even if the OTS has permitted the distribution. Our corporate organizational documents and the provisions of Delaware law to which we are subject may delay or prevent a change in control of us that you may favor. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that, either alone or in combination with the provisions of Delaware law described below, may have the effect of delaying or making it more difficult for another person to acquire us by means of a hostile tender offer, open market purchases, a proxy contest or otherwise. These provisions include: • A board of directors classified into three classes of directors with each class having staggered, three-year terms. As a result of this provision, at least two annual meetings of stockholders may be required for the stockholders to change a majority of our board of directors. 28 Table of Contents • The board’s authority to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval, which preferred stock could have voting, liquidation, dividend or other rights superior to those of our common stock. To the extent any such provisions are included in any preferred stock, they could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control. • Our stockholders cannot act by less than unanimous written consent and must comply with the provisions of our bylaws requiring advance notification of stockholder nominations and proposals. These provisions could have the effect of delaying or impeding a proxy contest for control of us. • Provisions of Delaware law, which we did not opt out of in our certificate of incorporation, that restrict business combinations with “interested stockholders” and provide that directors serving on staggered boards of directors, such as ours, may be removed only for cause. Any or all of these provisions could discourage tender offers or other business combination transactions that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the then current market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have no unresolved comments with the commission staff. 