D. Risk Factors Some of the following risks relate principally to our business or to the industry in which we operate. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and ownership of our common shares. Any of these risks, or any additional risks not presently known to us or risks that we currently deem immaterial, could significantly and adversely affect our business, our financial condition, our operating results and the trading price of our common shares. Risks Related to our Company We generate a substantial majority of our revenue from a limited number of customers under long-term agreements. The unanticipated termination or loss of one or more of these agreements or these customers would likely interrupt our related cash flow. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we received the majority of our revenues from five customers: BG Group plc, or BG, accounted for 20%; Royal Dutch Shell Plc, or Shell, accounted for 10%; PT Pertamina (PERSERO), or Pertamina, accounted for 15%; Petrobras accounted for 37% and Dubai Supply Authority, or DUSUP, accounted for 12% of our total operating revenues. We may be unable to retain our existing customers if: 1. our customers are unable to make charter payments because of their financial inability, disagreements with us or otherwise; 2. in certain circumstances, our customers exercise their right to terminate their charters early, in the event of: a. a loss of the vessel or damage to it beyond repair; b. a default of our obligations under the charter, including prolonged periods of off-hire; c. a war or hostilities that would significantly disrupt the free trade of the vessel; d. a requisition by any governmental authority; e. the charterers Petrobras and DUSUP with respect to the Golar Spirit, Golar Winter and Golar Freeze, upon six months' written notice at any time after the fifth anniversary of the commencement of the charter, exercising their option to terminate the charter upon payment of a termination fee; f. Petrobras, with respect to the Golar Spirit and Golar Winter, exercising its option to purchase each vessel after a specified period of time; or 3. there is a prolonged force majeure event affecting the customer, including damage to or destruction of relevant production facilities, war or political unrest, any of which may prevent us from performing services for that customer. If we lose any of our charters, we may be unable to re-deploy the related vessel on terms as favorable to us as our current charters. If we are unable to re-deploy a vessel for which a charter has been terminated, we will not receive any revenues from that vessel, but we may be required to pay expenses necessary to maintain the vessel in proper operating condition. 5 The loss of any of our customers, charters or vessels, or a decline in payments under any of our charters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our shareholders. Our growth depends on our ability to expand relationships with existing customers and obtain new customers, for which we will face substantial competition. One of our principal objectives is to enter into additional medium or long-term, fixed-rate LNG carrier or floating storage regasification units, or FSRU time charters. The process of obtaining new long-term time charters is highly competitive and generally involves an intensive screening process and competitive bids, and often extends for several months. LNG carrier or FSRU time charters contracts are awarded based upon a variety of factors relating to the vessel operator, including: · LNG shipping and FSRU experience and quality of ship operations; · cost effectiveness; · shipping industry relationships and reputation for customer service and safety; · technical ability and reputation for operation of highly specialized vessels, including FSRUs; · quality and experience of seafaring crew; · safety record; · the ability to finance FSRUs and LNG carriers at competitive rates, and financial stability generally; · relationships with shipyards and the ability to get suitable berths; · construction management experience, including the ability to obtain on-time delivery of new FSRUs and LNG carriers according to customer specifications; · willingness to accept operational risks pursuant to the charter, such as allowing termination of the charter for force majeure events; and · competitiveness of the bid in terms of overall price. We expect substantial competition for providing floating storage and regasification services and marine transportation services for potential LNG projects from a number of experienced companies, including state-sponsored entities and major energy companies. Many of these competitors have significantly greater financial resources and larger and more versatile fleets than we do. We anticipate that an increasing number of marine transportation companies—including many with strong reputations and extensive resources and experience—will enter the FSRU market and LNG transportation market. This increased competition may cause greater price competition for time charters. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to expand our relationships with existing customers or obtain new customers on a profitable basis, if at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions. We may have more difficulty entering into long-term time charters in the future if an active short-term or spot LNG shipping market continues to develop. One of our principal strategies is to enter into additional long-term FSRU and LNG carrier time charters of five years or more. Most shipping requirements for new LNG projects continue to be provided on a long-term basis, though the market segment consisting of spot voyages and short-term time charters of less than 12 months in duration has grown in the past few years. 6 If an active spot or short-term market continues to develop, we may have increased difficulty entering into long-term time charters upon expiration or early termination of our current charters, or for any vessels that we acquire in the future, and, as a result, our cash flow may be less stable. In addition, an active short-term or spot LNG market may require us to enter into charters based on changing market prices, as opposed to contracts based on a fixed rate, which could result in a decrease in our cash flow in periods when the market price for shipping LNG is depressed or insufficient funds are available to cover our financing costs for related vessels. Our growth depends on continued growth in demand for LNG, FSRUs and LNG carriers. Our growth strategy focuses on expansion in the floating storage and regasification sector and the LNG shipping sector. While global LNG demand has continued to rise, the rate of its growth has fluctuated due to several reasons, notably including the global economic crisis and the continued increase in natural gas production from unconventional sources in regions such as North America. Accordingly, our growth depends on continued growth in world and regional demand for LNG, FSRUs and LNG carriers, which could be negatively affected by a number of factors, including: · increases in the cost of natural gas derived from LNG relative to the cost of natural gas generally; · increases in the production levels of low-cost natural gas in domestic natural gas-consuming markets, which could further depress prices for natural gas in those markets and make LNG uneconomical; · decreases in the cost of, or increases in the demand for, conventional land-based regasification systems, which could occur if providers or users of regasification services seek greater economies of scale than FSRUs can provide, or if the economic, regulatory or political challenges associated with land-based activities improve; · further development of, or decreases in the cost of, alternative technologies for vessel-based LNG regasification; · increases in the production of natural gas in areas linked by pipelines to consuming areas, the extension of existing, or the development of new, pipeline systems in markets we may serve, or the conversion of existing non-natural gas pipelines to natural gas pipelines in those markets; · decreases in the consumption of natural gas due to increases in its price relative to other energy sources, or other factors making consumption of natural gas less attractive; · availability of new, alternative energy sources, including compressed natural gas; and · negative global or regional economic or political conditions, particularly in LNG-consuming regions, which could reduce energy consumption or its growth. Reduced demand for LNG, FSRUs or LNG carriers would have a material adverse effect on our future growth and could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We operate some of our vessels on fixed-term charters and other vessels in the spot/short-term charter market for LNG vessels. Failure to find profitable employment for these vessels, or our other vessels following completion of their fixed-term agreements, could adversely affect our operations. Currently, we have five vessels of which three are FSRUs contracted on medium or long-term charters, which expire between 2017 and 2024, and one vessel commencing its long-term charter in 2012 following its FSRU conversion. Our other LNG vessels are available for trade or trading in the spot/short-term charter market, the market for chartering an LNG carrier for a single voyage or short time period of up to one year. However, three of our vessels (one of which is our 50% equity interest in the vessel, the Gandria) are currently in lay-up and are unlikely to trade for the balance of 2011. Medium to long-term time charters generally provide reliable revenues but they also limit the portion of our fleet available to the spot/short-term market during an upswing in the LNG industry cycle, when spot/short-term market voyages might be more profitable. 7 The charter rates payable under time charters or in the spot market may be uncertain and volatile and will depend upon, among other things, economic conditions in the LNG market. The supply and demand balance for LNG carriers and FSRUs is also uncertain. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully employ our vessels in the future or re-deploy our LNG carriers and FSRUs following completion of their fixed-term agreements at rates sufficient to allow us to operate our business profitably or meet our obligations. If we are unable to re-deploy an LNG carrier or FSRU, such as the LNG carriers currently in lay-up, we will not receive any revenues from that vessel, but we may be required to pay expenses necessary to maintain that vessel in proper operating condition. A decline in charter or spot rates or a failure to successfully charter our vessels could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to meet our financing obligations. We are subject to certain risks with respect to our counterparties on contracts, and failure of such counterparties to meet their obligations could cause us to suffer losses or otherwise adversely affect our business. We enter into, among other things, charter-parties with our customers, conversion contracts with shipyards, credit facilities with banks, interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps and equity swaps. Such agreements subject us to counterparty risks. The ability of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations under a contract with us will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the LNG market and charter rates. In addition, in depressed market conditions, our charterers and customers may no longer need a vessel that is currently under charter or may be able to obtain a comparable vessel at a lower rate. As a result, charterers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing charter parties or avoid their obligations under these contracts. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under agreements with us, we could sustain significant losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A renewal of the global financial crisis could negatively impact our business. Although there are signs that the economic recession has abated in many countries, there is still considerable instability in the world economy and, in the economies of countries such as Greece, Spain, Portugal and Italy that could initiate a new economic downturn and result in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in financial markets, and volatility in credit and equity markets. A renewal of the financial crisis that affected the banking system and the financial markets over the past two years may negatively impact our business and financial condition in ways that we cannot predict. In addition, the uncertainty about current and future global economic conditions caused by a renewed financial crisis may cause our customers and governments to defer projects in response to tighter credit, decreased cash availability and declining customer confidence, which may negatively impact the demand for our services. A tightening of the credit markets may further negatively impact our operations by affecting the solvency of our suppliers or customers, which could lead to disruptions in delivery of supplies such as equipment for conversions, cost increases for supplies, accelerated payments to suppliers, customer bad debts or reduced revenues. Due to the lack of diversification in our lines of business, adverse developments in the LNG industry would negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Currently, we rely primarily on the revenues generated from our FSRUs and LNG carriers. Due to the lack of diversification in our lines of business, an adverse development in our LNG business, in the LNG industry or in the offshore energy infrastructure industry, generally, would have a significant impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. We may incur losses if we are unable to expand profitably into other areas of the LNG industry. A principal component of our strategy is to expand profitably into other areas of the LNG industry such as regasification and floating power and liquefaction projects that are beyond the traditional transportation of LNG. Other than the recent FSRU conversions of the Golar Spirit, Golar Winter and the Golar Freeze and the creation of our LNG trading business, we have not been involved in other LNG industry businesses. Our expansion into these areas may not be profitable and we may incur losses including losses in respect of expenses incurred in relation to project development. Our ability to integrate vertically into upstream and downstream LNG activities depends materially on our ability to identify attractive partners and projects and obtain project financing at a reasonable cost. 8 If there are substantial delays or cost overruns in completion of the modification of our vessels to FSRUs, or if they do not meet certain performance requirements, our earnings and financial condition could suffer. In October 2010, we were selected as the successful bidder for the West Java FSRU project and have commenced discussions with Pertamina for the conversion of the Khannur into an FSRU. The FSRU time charter party was signed between the Company and Nusantara Regas (a joint venture between Pertamina and Progress Energy, Inc., or PGN) in April 2011. The project represents the Company's fourth FSRU project and is for a period of approximately 11 years. The project involves the conversion of an LNG carrier, the Khannur, into an FSRU and the provision of associated mooring infrastructure. Due to the highly technical process, retrofitting an existing LNG carrier for FSRU service may only be performed by a limited number of contractors; thus, a change of contractors may result in higher costs or a significant delay to our existing delivery schedule. Furthermore, the completion of the retrofitting of LNG carriers is subject to the risk of cost overrun. An increase in costs could materially and adversely affect our financial performance. Our vessel operating expenses and drydock capital expenditures depend on a variety of factors, including crew costs, provisions, deck and engine stores and spares, lubricating oil, insurance, maintenance and repairs and shipyard costs, many of which are beyond our control and affect the entire shipping industry. Also, while we do not bear the cost of fuel (bunkers) under our time charters, fuel is a significant, if not the largest, expense in our operations when our vessels are idle during periods of commercial waiting time or when positioning or repositioning before or after a time charter. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil-producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. These events may increase vessel operating and drydocking costs further. If costs continue to rise, they could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel in the LNG industry, which may negatively impact the effectiveness of our management and our results of operation. Our success depends, to a significant extent, upon the abilities and the efforts of our senior executives. While we believe that we have an experienced management team, the loss or unavailability of one or more of our senior executives for any extended period of time could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. A shortage of qualified officers and crew could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. LNG carriers and FSRUs require a technically skilled officer staff with specialized training. As the world LNG carrier fleet and FSRU fleet continue to grow, the demand for technically skilled officers and crew has been increasing, which has led to a shortfall of such personnel. Increases in our historical vessel operating expenses have been attributable primarily to the rising costs of recruiting and retaining officers for our fleet. In addition, our FSRUs will require an additional engineer, deck officer and cargo officer. Furthermore, each key officer crewing an FSRU must receive specialized training related to the operation and maintenance of the regasification equipment. If we or our third-party ship managers are unable to employ technically skilled staff and crew, we will not be able to adequately staff our vessels. A material decrease in the supply of technically skilled officers or an inability of our third-party managers to attract and retain such qualified officers could impair our ability to operate, or increase the cost of crewing our vessels, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and significantly reduce our ability to make distributions to shareholders. In addition, the Golar Spirit and Golar Winter are employed by Petrobras in Brazil. As a result, we are required to hire a certain portion of Brazilian personnel to crew these vessels in accordance with Brazilian law. Any inability to attract and retain qualified Brazilian crew members could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 9 We currently operate primarily outside the United States, which could expose us to political, governmental and economic instability that could harm our operations. Because most of our operations are currently conducted outside of the United States, they may be affected by economic, political and governmental conditions in the countries where we are engaged in business or where our vessels are registered. Any disruption caused by these factors could harm our business. In particular, we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from shipping LNG from politically unstable regions. Past political conflicts in these regions, particularly in the Arabian Gulf, Brazil and Indonesia, have included attacks on ships, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt shipping in the area. In addition to acts of terrorism, vessels trading in these and other regions have also been subject, in limited instances, to piracy. Future hostilities or other political instability in the Arabian Gulf, Brazil and Indonesia where we operate or may operate could have a material adverse effect on the growth of our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. In addition, tariffs, trade embargoes and other economic sanctions by Brazil, the United States or other countries against countries in the Middle East, Southeast Asia or elsewhere as a result of terrorist attacks, hostilities or otherwise may limit trading activities with those countries, which could also harm our business and ability to make cash distributions. An economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region could exacerbate the effect of recent slowdowns in the economies of the United States and the European Union and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Negative changes in economic conditions in any Asia Pacific country, particularly in China, may exacerbate the effect of the significant recent slowdowns in the economies of the United States and the European Union and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Before the global economic financial crisis that began in 2008, China had one of the world's fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product, or GDP, which had a significant impact on shipping demand. While the growth rate of China's GDP increased to approximately 10.3% for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to approximately 9.1% increase for the year ended December 31, 2009, the Chinese GDP growth rate remains below pre-2008 levels. China has recently imposed measures to restrain lending, which may further contribute to a slowdown in its economic growth. It is possible that China and other countries in the Asia Pacific region will continue to experience slowed or even negative economic growth in the near future. Moreover, the current economic slowdown in the economies of the United States, the European Union and other Asian countries may further adversely affect economic growth in China and elsewhere. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends will likely be materially and adversely affected by an economic downturn in any of these countries. Our loan and lease agreements are secured by our vessels and contain operating and financial restrictions and other covenants that may restrict our business, financing activities and ability to make cash distributions to our shareholders. Covenants in our loan and lease agreements require the consent of our lenders and our lessors or otherwise limit our ability to: · merge into, or consolidate with, any other entity or sell, or otherwise dispose of, all or substantially all of their assets; · make or pay equity distributions; · incur additional indebtedness; · incur or make any capital expenditures; · materially amend, or terminate, any of our current charter contracts or management agreements; or · charter our vessels. 10 If the ownership interest in us controlled by World Shipholding Ltd, or World Shipholding, a Liberian company indirectly controlled by Trusts established by John Fredriksen for the benefit of his immediate family, decreased below 25% of our share capital, a default of some of our loan agreements and lease agreements to which we are a party would occur. Similarly, if we were to be in any other form of default that we could not remedy, such as payment default, our lessors, having legal title to our leased vessels, or our lenders, who have mortgages over some of our vessels, could be entitled to sell our vessels in order to repay our debt and/or lease liabilities. Covenants in our loan and lease agreements may effectively prevent us from paying dividends should our board of directors wish to do so and may require us to obtain permission from our lenders and lessors to engage in some other corporate actions. Our lenders' and lessors' interests may be different from those of our shareholders and we cannot guarantee investors that we will be able to obtain our lenders' and lessors' permission when needed. This may adversely affect our earnings and prevent us from taking actions that could be in our shareholders' best interests. As of March 31, 2011, we were in compliance with all of the covenants contained in our loan and lease agreements. If we do not maintain the financial ratios contained in our loan and lease agreements or we are in any other form of default such as payment default, we could face acceleration of the due date of our debt and the loss of our vessels. Our loan and lease agreements require us to maintain specific financial levels and ratios, including minimum amounts of available cash, ratios of current assets to current liabilities (excluding current long-term debt), ratios of net debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization and the level of stockholders' equity, minimum loan to value clauses and debt service coverage ratios. Although we currently comply with these requirements, if we were to fall below these levels, we would be in default of our loans and lease agreements and the due date of our debt could be accelerated and our lease agreements terminated, which could result in the loss of our vessels. Our ability to comply with covenants and restrictions contained in our loan and lease agreements may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in our debt instruments are breached, a significant portion of the obligations may become immediately due and payable. In the event that we enter into waiver agreements with our lenders for covenant breaches, such waiver agreements may result in a significant increase in our debt cost. We may not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments and, if we are unable to repay debt under the credit facilities, the lenders could seek to foreclose on those assets. In addition, obligations under our financing arrangements are secured by certain of our vessels and guaranteed by our subsidiaries holding the interests in our vessels. We may not have sufficient cash from operations to enable us to pay quarterly dividends following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses. We may not have sufficient cash available each quarter to pay quarterly dividends. The amount of cash we can distribute depends upon the amount of cash that we generate from our operations, which may fluctuate based on, among other things: · the rates we obtain from our charters; · the level of our operating costs, such as the cost of crews and insurance; · the continued availability of LNG, liquefaction and regasification facilities; · the number of unscheduled off-hire days for our fleet and the timing of, and number of days required for, scheduled drydocking of our vessels; · prevailing global and regional economic and political conditions; · currency exchange rate fluctuations; and · the effect of governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards on the conduct of our business. 11 The actual amount of cash that we will have available for dividend distribution also will depend on factors such as: · the level of capital expenditures that we make, including for maintaining vessels, building new vessels, acquiring existing vessels and complying with regulations; · our debt service requirements and restrictions on distributions contained in our debt instruments; · fluctuations in our working capital needs; · our ability to make working capital borrowings, including to pay distributions to shareholders; · the amount of any cash reserves, including reserves for future capital expenditures and other matters, established; and · our ability to raise debt finance in respect of expenditure relating to the conversion of the Khannur and our newbuildings. The aging of our fleet may result in increased operating costs in the future, which could adversely affect our earnings. In general, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase as the vessel ages. Due to improvements in engine technology, older vessels are typically less fuel-efficient than more recently constructed vessels. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations and safety, environmental or other equipment standards related to the age of tankers and other types of vessels may require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment to our vessels to comply with safety or environmental laws or regulations that may be enacted in the future. These laws or regulations may also restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage or prohibit their operation in certain geographic regions. We cannot predict what alterations or modifications our vessels may be required to undergo as a result of requirements that may be promulgated in the future, or that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify any required expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. Delays or defaults by the shipyards in the construction of our newbuildings could increase our expenses and diminish our net income and cash flows. We currently have newbuilding contracts for the construction of six LNG carriers with the Korean shipyard Samsung Heavy Industries Co. Ltd., or Samsung. In addition we have an option to acquire an additional two LNG carriers. These projects are subject to the risk of delay or defaults by the shipyards caused by, among other things, unforeseen quality or engineering problems, work stoppages, weather interference, unanticipated cost increases, delays in receipt of necessary equipment, and inability to obtain the requisite permits or approvals. In accordance with industry practice, in the event the shipyards are unable or unwilling to deliver the vessels, we may not have substantial remedies. Failure to construct or deliver the ships by the shipyards or any significant delays could increase our expenses and diminish our net income and cash flows. We may not be able to obtain financing to fund our growth or our future capital expenditures, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. In order to fund future FSRUs, liquefaction projects, newbuilding programs, vessel acquisitions, increased working capital levels or other capital expenditures, we may be required to use cash from operations, incur borrowings or raise capital through the sale of debt or additional equity securities. Use of cash from operations may reduce the amount of cash available for dividend distributions. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for any future debt or equity offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of such financing or offering, as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain funds for future capital expenditures could impact our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. The issuance of additional equity securities would dilute your interest in us and reduce dividends payable to you. Even if we are successful in obtaining bank financing, paying debt service would limit cash available for working capital and increasing our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. 12 Three of our vessels are currently financed by U.K. tax leases and an additional five of our vessels were financed by U.K. tax leases until such leases were terminated in 2010. In the event of any adverse tax changes or a successful challenge by the U.K. Revenue authorities with regard to the initial tax basis of the transactions, or in relation to the terminations we have entered into in 2010 or in the event of an early termination of our remaining leases, we may be required to make additional payments to the U.K. vessel lessors or the UK revenue authorities which could adversely affect our earnings and financial position. Three of our vessels are currently financed by U.K. tax leases and an additional five of our vessels were financed by U.K. tax leases until such leases were terminated in 2010. In the event of any adverse tax changes or a successful challenge by the U.K. Revenue authorities with regard to the initial tax basis of the transactions, or in relation to the lease terminations we entered into in 2010 or in the event of an early termination of our remaining leases, we may be required to make additional payments to the U.K. vessel lessors or the UK revenue authorities which could adversely affect our earnings and financial position. We would be required to return all or a portion of, or in certain circumstances significantly more than, the upfront cash benefits that we have received or accrued over time, together with fees that were incurred in connection with our lease financing transactions including our recent termination transactions or post additional security or make additional payments to the U.K. vessel lessors. Any additional payments could adversely affect our earnings and financial position. Servicing our debt and lease agreements substantially limits our funds available for other purposes. A large portion of our cash flow from operations is used to repay the principal and interest on our debt and lease agreements. As of December 31, 2010, our net indebtedness (including loan debt, capital lease obligations, net of restricted cash and short-term deposits and net of cash and cash equivalents) was $836.5 million and our ratio of net indebtedness to total capital (comprising net indebtedness plus shareholders' equity and noncontrolling interests) was 0.58. We may incur additional indebtedness to fund our newbuilding vessels and possible expansion into other areas of the LNG industry, such as in respect of our FSRU projects. Debt payments reduce our funds available for expansion into other parts of the LNG industry, working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes. In addition, our business is capital intensive and requires significant capital outlays that result in high fixed costs. We cannot assure investors that our existing and future contracts will provide revenues adequate to cover all of our fixed and variable costs. An increase in interest rates could materially and adversely affect our financial performance. As of December 31, 2010, we had total long-term debt and net capital lease obligations (net of restricted cash) outstanding of $1,016.2 million of which $412.2 million is exposed to a floating rate of interest. We use interest rate swaps to manage interest rate risk. As of December 31, 2010, our interest rate swap arrangements effectively fix the interest rate exposure on $620.3 million of floating rate bank debt and capital lease obligation. In addition, we had $10 million of fixed rate debt which has recently retired. If interest rates rise significantly, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Increases and decreases in interest rates will affect the cost of floating rate debt but may also affect the mark-to-market valuation of interest rate swaps, which will also affect our results. Additionally, to the extent that our lease obligations are secured by restricted cash deposits, our exposure to interest rate movements is hedged to a large extent. However, movements in interest rates may require us to place more cash into our restricted deposits and this could also materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The interest rate swaps that have been entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries are derivative financial instruments that effectively translate floating rate debt into fixed rate debt. U.S. GAAP requires that these derivatives be valued at current market prices in our financial statements, with increases or decreases in valuations reflected in results of operations or, if the instrument is designated as a hedge, in other comprehensive income. Changes in interest rates give rise to changes in the valuations of interest rate swaps and could adversely affect results of operations and other comprehensive income. 13 Exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations will result in fluctuations in our cash flows and operating results. Currency exchange rate fluctuations and currency devaluations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations from quarter to quarter. Historically, our revenue has been generated in U.S. Dollars, but we incur capital, operating and administrative expenses in multiple currencies. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange fluctuations as a result of expenses paid by certain subsidiaries in currencies other than U.S. Dollars, such as Britsh pounds, or GBP, in relation to our administrative office in the U.K., operating expenses incurred in a variety of foreign currencies, including Euros and Singapore Dollars, among others; and multiple currencies, including Euros, Singapore Dollars and Norwegian Krone in respect of our FSRU conversion contracts. If the U.S. Dollar weakens significantly, this could increase our expenses and, therefore, could have a negative effect on our financial results. Under the charter agreements for the Golar Spirit and the Golar Winter, we will generate a portion of our revenues in Brazilian Reais. Income under these charters is split into two components. The component that relates to operating expenses (the minority) is paid in Brazilian Reais, whereas the capital component is paid in U.S. Dollars. We will incur some operating expenses in Brazilian Reais but we will also have to convert Brazilian Reais into other currencies, including U.S. Dollars, in order to pay the remaining operating expenses incurred in other currencies. If the Brazilian Real weakens significantly, we may not have sufficient Brazilian Reais to convert to other currencies in order to satisfy our obligations in respect of the operating expenses related to these charters, which would have a negative effect on our financial results and cash available for distribution. We have entered into currency forward contracts or similar derivatives to mitigate our exposure to these foreign exchange rate fluctuations in respect of our capital commitments relating to our FSRU conversion contracts. Two of our vessels are currently financed by U.K. tax leases, which are denominated in GBPs. The majority of our GBP capital lease obligations is hedged by GBP cash deposits securing the lease obligations, or by currency swap. However, these are not perfect hedges and a significant strengthening of the U.S. Dollar could give rise to an increase in our financial expenses and could materially affect our financial results (See Item 11- Foreign currency risk). Our joint venture agreement with CPC Corporation, Taiwan (CPC) with respect to the Golar Mazo contains provisions that may limit our ability to sell or transfer our interest in the Golar Mazo, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. We have a 60% interest in the joint venture that owns the Golar Mazo, which enables us to control the joint venture, subject to certain negative controls held by CPC, who owns the remaining 40% interest in the Golar Mazo. Under the joint venture agreement, no party may sell, assign, mortgage, or otherwise transfer its rights, interests or obligations under that agreement without the prior written consent of the other party. If we determine that the sale or transfer of our interest in the Golar Mazo is in our best interest, we must provide CPC notice of our intent to sell or transfer our interest and grant CPC a right of first refusal to purchase our interest. If CPC does not accept the offer within 60 days after we notify CPC, we will be free to sell or transfer our interest to a third-party. Any delay in the sale or transfer of our interest in the Golar Mazo or restrictions in our ability to manage the joint venture could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders We may have to pay tax on United States source income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States, may be subject to a 4% U.S. federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the applicable Treasury Regulations recently promulgated thereunder. We expect that we and each of our subsidiaries will qualify for this statutory tax exemption and we will take this position for U.S. federal income tax return reporting purposes. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption and thereby become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our U.S. source income. Therefore, we can give no assurances on our tax-exempt status or that of any of our subsidiaries. 14 If, we or our subsidiaries, are not entitled to exemption under Section 883 of the Code for any taxable year, we, or our subsidiaries, could be subject for those years to an effective 4% U.S. federal income tax on the gross shipping income these companies derive during the year that are attributable to the transport or cargoes to or from the United States. The imposition of this tax would have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. United States tax authorities could treat us as a "passive foreign investment company", which could have adverse United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a "passive foreign investment company," or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of "passive income" or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation's assets produce or are held for the production of those types of "passive income." For purposes of these tests, "passive income" includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute "passive income." U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. Based on our current and expected future method of operation, we do not believe that we will be a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that our income from our time chartering activities does not constitute "passive income," and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets. There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our method of operation. We believe there is substantial legal authority supporting our position consisting of case law and United States Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, pronouncements concerning the characterization of income derived from time charters and voyage charters as services income for other tax purposes. However, we note that there is also authority which characterizes time charter income as rental income rather than services income for other tax purposes. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the IRS or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our U.S. shareholders will face adverse U.S. tax consequences and certain information reporting requirements. Under the PFIC rules, unless those shareholders make an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such shareholders), such shareholders would be liable to pay U.S. federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common stock, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder's holding period of our common stock. Please see the section of this annual report entitled "Taxation" under Item 10E for a more comprehensive discussion of the U.S. federal income tax consequences if we were to be treated as a PFIC. Our Liberian subsidiaries may not be exempt from Liberian taxation, which would materially reduce our Liberian subsidiaries', and consequently our, net income and cash flow by the amount of the applicable tax. The Republic of Liberia enacted an income tax act generally effective as of January 1, 2001, or the New Act, which repealed, in its entirety, the prior income tax law in effect since 1977, pursuant to which our Liberian subsidiaries, as non-resident domestic corporations, were wholly exempt from Liberian tax. In 2004, the Liberian Ministry of Finance issued regulations, or the New Regulations, pursuant to which a non-resident domestic corporation engaged in international shipping, such as our Liberian subsidiaries, will not be subject to tax under the New Act retroactive to January 1, 2001. In addition, the Liberian Ministry of Justice issued an opinion that the New Regulations were a valid exercise of the regulatory authority of the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, assuming that the New Regulations are valid, our Liberian subsidiaries will be wholly exempt from tax as under prior law. 15 In 2009, the Liberian Congress enacted the Economic Stimulus Taxation Act of 2009, which reinstates the treatment on non-resident Liberian corporations, such as our Liberian subsidiaries, under Prior Laws retroactive to January 1, 2001. This legislation will become effective when it is finally published by the Liberian government. If our Liberian subsidiaries were subject to Liberian income tax under the New Act, our Liberian subsidiaries would be subject to tax at a rate of 35% on their worldwide income. As a result, their, and subsequently our, net income and cash flow would be materially reduced by the amount of the applicable tax. In addition, we, as a shareholder of the Liberian subsidiaries, would be subject to Liberian withholding tax on dividends paid by the Liberian subsidiaries at rates ranging from 15% to 20%. We are a holding company, and our ability to pay dividends will be limited by the value of investments we currently hold and by the distribution of funds from our subsidiaries. We are a holding company whose assets mainly comprise of equity interests in our subsidiaries and other quoted and non-quoted companies. As a result, should we decide to pay dividends, we would be dependent on the performance of our operating subsidiaries and other investments. If we were not able to receive sufficient funds from our subsidiaries and other investments, including from the sale of our investment interests, we would not be able to pay dividends unless we obtain funds from other sources. We may not be able to obtain the necessary funds from other sources on terms acceptable to us. Risks Related to Our LNG-trading Business During 2010, we established Golar Commodities Limited, or Golar Commodities, a wholly owned Bermuda subsidiary, to trade physical cargos of LNG and to provide financial risk management to LNG customers around the world. We are exposed to market risks, any of which could adversely affect our business. We are exposed to market and credit risks in all of our operations. To minimize the risk of commodity price fluctuations, we periodically enter into derivative transactions to hedge anticipated purchases and sales of LNG. However, financial derivative instrument contracts may not completely eliminate all risks. Specifically, such risks include commodity price changes, market supply shortages, operational risks and counterparty default. Customers and counterparties may not pay or perform in accordance with our agreements, which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. We are subject to the risk of loss resulting from non-payment and/or non-performance by customers and counterparties. Customers may experience deterioration of their financial condition as a result of changing market conditions or financial difficulties, which could impact their creditworthiness or ability to pay for our services. If we fail to assess adequately the creditworthiness of existing or future customers, unanticipated deterioration in customers' creditworthiness, and any resulting non-payment and/or non-performance, could adversely impact results of operations. In addition, if any of our customers or counterparties filed for bankruptcy protection, we may not be able to recover amounts owed, which could materially and adversely impact the results of operations. Limitations on liquidity in the LNG market could affect our earnings. The LNG market can experience periods of limited liquidity, which can create difficulties in managing our physical and economic risks. The lack of liquidity can present us with adverse conditions in which to buy cover short positions or to sell to cover long positions. We may not always be able to manage liquidity-related risks, which could affect our earnings. Limitations on our flexibility to trade in the spot market could adversely affect our business. There is an element of structured rigidity to operations in the LNG supply chain that can limit our flexibility to trade in the spot market for LNG cargos. Significant mismatches between cargo sizes and vessel and storage tank capacity can limit the ability to trade vessels chartered by us or to buy or sell cargoes to and from certain locations. We may also not be able to charter vessels when required and therefore may not be able to fulfil our obligations to deliver cargos which could adversely affect our business. 16 There are operational risks associated with loading and off-loading, storing and transporting cargoes, which could expose us to liability and affect our economic results. We assume numerous operational risks associated with loading and off-loading, storing and transporting cargoes which can cause delays to our operations. In addition difficulties due to port constraints, weather conditions and vessel compatibility and performance can all affect our results of operations and expose us to some adverse economic consequences. Restrictions on LNG imports could have a materially adverse effect on us. LNG is produced from various production facilities with varying qualities. Markets for LNG have varying quality specification limits, which can restrict the ability to import LNG into these markets. These restrictions can reduce the flexibility to buy and/or sell cargoes across various markets, which could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations. Employees may violate our risk management policies, which could have an adverse effect on our earnings, financial position or cash flows. Our established risk management policies and procedures may not be effective and employees may violate our risk management policies. If employees fail to adhere to our policies and procedures, or if our policies and procedures are not effective, potentially because of future conditions or risks outside of our control, we may be exposed to greater risk than we had intended. Ineffective risk management policies and procedures, or violation of risk management policies and procedures, could have an adverse effect on our earnings, financial position or cash flows. We may be unable to attract and retain key management and trading personnel, which may impact the effectiveness of trading performance and our financial results. Our success depends, to a significant extent, upon the abilities and the efforts of our traders. While we believe that we have an experienced trading team, the loss or unavailability of one or more of our traders for any extended period of time could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Industry The operation of LNG carriers and FSRUs is inherently risky, and an incident resulting in significant loss or environmental consequences involving any of our vessels could harm our reputation and business. The operation of an ocean-going vessel carries inherent risks. These risks include the possibility of: · Marine disaster; · Piracy; · Environmental accidents; and · Business interruptions caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, political action in various countries, labor strikes, or adverse weather conditions. Any of these circumstances or events could increase our costs or lower our revenues. The involvement of our vessels in an oil spill or other environmental disaster may harm our reputation as a safe and reliable LNG carrier operator. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired. The costs of vessel repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. We may have to pay repair costs that our insurance policies do not cover. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our results of operations. If one of our vessels were involved in an accident with the potential risk of environmental contamination, the resulting media coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and cash flows, weaken our financial condition and negatively affect our ability to pay dividends. 17 Growth of the LNG market may be limited by many factors, including infrastructure constraints and community and political group resistance to new LNG infrastructure over environmental, safety and terrorism-related concerns. A complete LNG project includes production, liquefaction, regasification, storage and distribution facilities and LNG carriers. Existing LNG projects and infrastructure are limited, and new or expanded LNG projects are highly complex and capital intensive, with new projects often costing several billion dollars. Many factors could negatively affect continued development of LNG infrastructure and related alternatives, including floating storage and regasification, or disrupt the supply of LNG, including: · increases in interest rates or other events that may affect the availability of sufficient financing for LNG projects on commercially reasonable terms; · decreases in the price of LNG, which might decrease the expected returns relating to investments in LNG projects; · the inability of project owners or operators to obtain governmental approvals to construct or operate LNG facilities; · local community resistance to proposed or existing LNG facilities based on safety, environmental or terrorism-related concerns; · any significant explosion, spill or similar incident involving an LNG facility, FSRU or LNG carrier; and · labor or political unrest affecting existing or proposed areas of LNG production and regasification. We expect that, as a result of the factors discussed above, some of the proposals to expand existing, or develop new, LNG liquefaction and regasification facilities may be abandoned or significantly delayed. If the LNG supply chain is disrupted or does not continue to grow, or if a significant LNG explosion, spill or similar incident occurs, such an event could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions. Terrorist attacks, piracy, increased hostilities or war could lead to further economic instability, increased costs and disruption of our business. Terrorist attacks such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, the bombings in Spain on March 11, 2004, in London on July 7, 2005, and the attacks in Mumbai on November 26, 2008, and the continuing response of the United States and others to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, continue to cause uncertainty in the world's financial markets and may affect our business, operating results, financial condition, ability to raise capital and future growth. Continuing conflicts in North Africa and the Middle East and the presence of the United States and other armed forces in Iraq and Afghanistan may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets and disrupt our business. For example, in December 2005, we signed a joint venture agreement with The Egyptian Natural Gas Holding Company, or EGAS, and HK Petroleum Services in respect of the setting up of a jointly owned company named Egyptian Company for Gas Services S.A.E., or ECGS, for the development of hydrocarbon business and in particular LNG related business. The recent turmoil in Egypt may affect the economic success of this joint venture. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea and the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. Terrorist attacks on vessels, such as the October 2002 attack on the M.V. Limburg, a very large crude carrier not related to us, may, in the future, also negatively affect our operations and financial condition and directly impact our vessels or our customers. Future terrorist attacks could result in increased volatility and turmoil of the financial markets in the United States and globally. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our revenues and costs. 18 In addition, LNG facilities, shipyards, vessels (including conventional LNG carriers and FSRUs), pipelines and gas fields could be targets of future terrorist attacks or piracy. Any such attacks could lead to, among other things, bodily injury or loss of life, vessel or other property damage, increased vessel operational costs, including insurance costs, and the inability to transport LNG to or from certain locations. Terrorist attacks, war or other events beyond our control that adversely affect the production, storage, transportation or regasification of LNG to be shipped or processed by us could entitle our customers to terminate our charter contracts, which would harm our cash flow and our business. Terrorist attacks, or the perception that LNG facilities, LNG carriers and FSRUs are potential terrorist targets, could materially and adversely affect expansion of LNG infrastructure and the continued supply of LNG to the United States and other countries. Concern that LNG facilities may be targeted for attack by terrorists has contributed to significant community and environmental resistance to the construction of a number of LNG facilities, primarily in North America. If a terrorist incident involving an LNG facility, LNG carrier or FSRU did occur, in addition to the possible effects identified in the previous paragraph, the incident may adversely affect construction of additional LNG facilities or FSRUs, or lead to the temporary or permanent closing of various LNG facilities or FSRUs currently in operation. The economic downturn may affect our customers' ability to charter our vessels and pay for our services, and may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The economic downturn in the global financial markets may lead to a decline in our customers' operations or ability to pay for our services, which could result in decreased demand for our vessels and services. Our customers' inability to pay could also result in their default on our current charters. The decline in the amount of services requested by our customers or their default on our charters with them could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot determine whether the difficult conditions in the economy and the financial markets will improve or worsen in the near future. An over-supply of vessel capacity may lead to further reductions in charter hire rates and profitability. The supply of vessels generally increases with deliveries of new vessels and decreases with the scrapping of older vessels, conversion of vessels to other uses, and loss of tonnage as a result of casualties. Currently, there is significant newbuilding activity with respect to virtually all sizes and classes of vessels. An over-supply of vessel capacity, combined with a decline in the demand for such vessels, may result in a further reduction of charter hire rates. If such a reduction continues in the future, upon the expiration or termination of our vessels' current charters, we may only be able to re-charter our vessels at reduced or unprofitable rates or we may not be able to charter our vessels at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Hire rates for FSRUs and LNG carriers are not readily available and may fluctuate substantially. If rates are lower when we are seeking a new charter, our earnings and ability to make distributions to our unitholders will suffer. Hire rates for FSRUs and LNG carriers are not readily available and may fluctuate over time as a result of changes in the supply-demand balance relating to current and future FSRU and LNG carrier capacity. This supply-demand relationship largely depends on a number of factors outside our control. The LNG market is closely connected to world natural gas prices and energy markets, which we cannot predict. A substantial or extended decline in natural gas prices could adversely affect our ability to recharter our vessels at acceptable rates or acquire and profitably operate new FSRUs or LNG carriers. Our ability from time to time to charter or re-charter any vessel at attractive rates will depend on, among other things, the prevailing economic conditions in the LNG industry. Hire rates for newbuilding FSRUs and LNG carriers are correlated with the price of FSRU newbuildings and LNG carrier newbuildings. Please read "Industry—LNG Carriers—Carrying Capacity and Prices" for information on the cyclical behavior and the current state of LNG carrier shipbuilding prices Vessel values may fluctuate substantially and, if these values are lower at a time when we are attempting to dispose of vessels, we may incur a loss. Vessel values for LNG carriers can fluctuate substantially over time due to a number of different factors, including: 19 · prevailing economic conditions in the natural gas and energy markets; · a substantial or extended decline in demand for LNG; · increases in the supply of vessel capacity; · the size and age of a vessel; and · the cost of retrofitting or modifying existing vessels, as a result of technological advances in vessel design or equipment, changes in applicable environmental or other regulations or standards, customer requirements or otherwise. As our vessels age, the expenses associated with maintaining and operating them are expected to increase, which could have an adverse effect on our business and operations if we do not maintain sufficient cash reserves for maintenance and replacement capital expenditures. Moreover, the cost of a replacement vessel would be significant. If a charter terminates, we may be unable to re-deploy the affected vessels at attractive rates and, rather than continue to incur costs to maintain and finance them, we may seek to dispose of them. Our inability to dispose of vessels at a reasonable value could result in a loss on their sale and adversely affect our ability to purchase a replacement vessel, results of operations and financial condition and ability to make distributions to shareholders. Please refer to section "Critical Accounting Estimates – Vessel Market Valuations" for further information. The LNG transportation industry is competitive and we may not be able to compete successfully, which would adversely affect our earnings. The LNG transportation industry in which we operate is competitive, especially with respect to the negotiation of long-term charters. Competition arises primarily from other LNG carrier owners, some of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. Furthermore, new competitors with greater resources could enter the market for LNG carriers and FSRUs and operate larger fleets through consolidations, acquisitions or the purchase of new vessels, and may be able to offer lower charter rates and more modern fleets. If we are not able to compete successfully, our earnings could be adversely affected. Competition may also prevent us from achieving our goal of profitably expanding into other areas of the LNG industry. Our vessels are required to trade globally and we must, therefore, conduct our operations in many parts of the world, and, accordingly, our vessels are exposed to international risks, which could reduce revenue or increase expenses. We conduct global operations and transport LNG from politically unstable regions. Changing economic, regulatory and political conditions in some countries, including political and military conflicts, have from time to time resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways, piracy, terrorism and other efforts to disrupt shipping. The terrorist attacks against targets in the United States on September 11, 2001, the military response by the United States and the conflict in Iraq may increase the likelihood of acts of terrorism worldwide. Acts of terrorism, regional hostilities or other political instability could affect LNG trade patterns and reduce our revenue or increase our expenses. Further, we could be forced to incur additional and unexpected costs in order to comply with changes in the laws or regulations of the nations in which our vessels operate. These additional costs could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenue and costs. Our vessels may call on ports located in countries that are subject to restrictions imposed by the U.S. or other governments, which could adversely affect our business. From time to time on charterers' instructions, our vessels may call on ports located in countries subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the United States government and in countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism. The U.S. sanctions and embargo laws and regulations vary in their application, as they do not all apply to the same covered persons or proscribe the same activities, and such sanctions and embargo laws and regulations may be amended or strengthened over time. In 2010, the U.S. enacted the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions Accountability and Divestment Act ("CISADA"), which expanded the scope of the former Iran Sanctions Act. Among other things, CISADA expands the application of the prohibitions to non-U.S. companies, such as our company, and introduces limits on the ability of companies and persons to do business or trade with Iran when such activities relate to the investment, supply or export of refined petroleum or petroleum products. Although we believe that we are in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations, and intend to maintain such compliance, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future, particularly as the scope of certain laws may be unclear and may be subject to changing interpretations. Any such violation could result in fines or other penalties and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in our company. Additionally, some investors may decide to divest their interest, or not to invest, in our company simply because we do business with companies that do business in sanctioned countries. Moreover, our charterers may violate applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations as a result of actions that do not involve us or our vessels, and those violations could in turn negatively affect our reputation. Investor perception of the value of our company may also be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest and governmental actions in these and surrounding countries. 20 Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have recently increased in frequency, which could adversely affect our business. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea and in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Beginning in 2008, the frequency of piracy incidents against commercial shipping vessels increased significantly and continues at a relatively high level through today, particularly in the Gulf of Aden. Since 2009, numerous vessels have fallen victim to piracy attacks off the coast of Somalia. For example, on January 15, 2010, the M/V Samho Jewelry, a vessel not affiliated with us, was seized by pirates while transporting chemicals 800 miles off the Somali coast. If these piracy attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed being characterized by insurers as "war risk" zones, as the Gulf of Aden temporarily was in May 2008, or Joint War Committee "war and strikes" listed areas, premiums payable for such insurance coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. In addition, crew costs, including those due to employing onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, any detention hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost, or unavailability of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The recent earthquake and tsunami in Japan may have an adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The earthquake and tsunami that occurred in Japan on March 11, 2011 have caused hundreds of billions of dollars of damage and has threatened to send the Japanese economy into a recession. As of the date of this annual report, the extent to which the earthquake and tsunami will affect the international shipping industry is unclear. With the third largest economy in the world, a prolonged recovery period with a relatively stagnant Japanese economy could have adverse economic implications worldwide. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover losses that may occur to our property or result from our operations. The operation of LNG carriers and FSRUs is inherently risky. Although we carry protection and indemnity insurance, all risks may not be adequately insured against, and any particular claim may not be paid. Any claims covered by insurance would be subject to deductibles, and since it is possible that a large number of claims may be brought, the aggregate amount of these deductibles could be material. Certain of our insurance coverage is maintained through mutual protection and indemnity associations and, as a member of such associations, we may be required to make additional payments over and above budgeted premiums if member claims exceed association reserves. We may be unable to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future. For example, more stringent environmental regulations have led in the past to increased costs for, and in the future may result in the lack of availability of, insurance against risks of environmental damage or pollution. A marine disaster could exceed our insurance coverage, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Any uninsured or underinsured loss could harm our business and financial condition. In addition, our insurance may be voidable by the insurers as a result of certain of our actions, such as our vessels failing to maintain certification with applicable maritime self-regulatory organizations. 21 Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks may also make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. In addition, upon renewal or expiration of our current policies, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing coverage. Any future changes to the laws and regulations governing LNG carrier and FSRU vessels could increase our expenses to remain in compliance. The laws of the nations where our vessels operate, as well as international treaties and conventions, regulate the production, storage and transportation of LNG. Our operations are materially affected by these extensive and changing environmental protection laws and other regulations and international conventions, including those relating to equipping and operating our LNG carriers and FSRUs. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, substantial expenses in complying with these laws and regulations, including expenses for vessel modifications and changes in operating procedures. While we believe that we comply with the current regulations of the International Maritime Organization, or IMO, any future non-compliance could subject us to increased liability, lead to decreases in available insurance coverage for affected vessels and result in the denial of access to, or detention in, some ports. Furthermore, future United States federal and state laws and regulations as then in force, or future regulations adopted by the IMO, and any other future regulations, may limit our ability to do business or cause the Company to incur additional costs relating to such matters as LNG carrier construction, maintenance and inspection requirements, development of contingency plans for potential leakages and insurance coverage. Safety, environmental and other governmental requirements expose us to liability, and compliance with current and future regulations could require significant additional expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our operations are affected by extensive and changing international, national, state and local laws, regulations, treaties, conventions and standards in force in international waters, the jurisdictions in which our tankers and other vessels operate and the country or countries in which such vessels are registered, including those governing the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of oil spills and other contamination, air emissions, and water discharges and ballast water management. These regulations include the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or the OPA, the U.S. Clean Water Act, the U.S. Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002 and regulations of the IMO, including the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969, as from time to time amended and generally referred to as the CLC, the IMO International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships of 1973, as from time to time amended and generally referred to as MARPOL, the IMO International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974, as from time to time amended and generally referred to as SOLAS, and the IMO International Convention on Load Lines of 1966, as from time to time amended. In addition, vessel classification societies and the requirements set forth in the IMO's International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and for Pollution Prevention, or the ISM Code, also impose significant safety and other requirements on our vessels. In complying with current and future environmental requirements, vessel owners and operators may also incur significant additional costs in meeting new maintenance and inspection requirements, in developing contingency arrangements for potential spills and in obtaining insurance coverage. Government regulation of vessels, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental requirements, can be expected to become stricter in the future and require us to incur significant capital expenditures on our vessels to keep them in compliance, or even to scrap or sell certain vessels altogether. Many of these requirements are designed to reduce the risk of oil spills and other pollution, and our compliance with these requirements can be costly. These requirements also can affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels, require reductions in cargo capacity, ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions, lead to decreased availability of insurance coverage for environmental matters or result in the denial of access to certain jurisdictional waters or ports, or detention in certain ports. 22 Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, we could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations, natural resource damages and third-party claims for personal injury or property damages, in the event that there is a release of petroleum or other hazardous substances from our vessels or otherwise in connection with our current or historic operations. We could also incur substantial penalties, fines and other civil or criminal sanctions, including in certain instances seizure or detention of our vessels, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws, regulations and other requirements. For example, OPA affects all vessel owners shipping oil to, from or within the United States. OPA allows for potentially unlimited liability without regard to fault for owners, operators and bareboat charterers of vessels for oil pollution in U.S. waters. Similarly the CLC, which has been adopted by most countries outside of the United States, imposes liability for oil pollution in international waters. OPA expressly permits individual states to impose their own liability regimes with regard to hazardous materials and oil pollution incidents occurring within their boundaries. Coastal states in the United States have enacted pollution prevention liability and response laws, many providing for unlimited liability. Furthermore, environmental laws often impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject us to liability without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault. Under OPA, for example, owners, operators and bareboat charterers are jointly and severally strictly liable for the discharge of oil in U.S. waters, including the 200 nautical mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. Furthermore, the 2010 explosion of the drilling rig Deepwater Horizon, which is unrelated to the Company, and the subsequent release of oil into the Gulf of Mexico, or other events, may result in further regulation of the shipping and offshore industries and modifications to statutory liability schemes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. An oil spill could also result in significant liability, including fines, penalties, criminal liability and remediation costs for natural resource damages under other international and U.S. federal, state and local laws, as well as third-party damages, and could harm our reputation with current or potential charterers of our vessels. We are required to satisfy insurance and financial responsibility requirements for potential oil (including marine fuel) spills and other pollution incidents. Although we have arranged insurance to cover certain environmental risks, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be sufficient to cover all such risks or that any claims will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and available cash. Climate change and greenhouse gas restrictions may adversely impact our operations and markets. Due to concern over the risk of climate change, a number of countries and the IMO have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emission from vessel emissions. These regulatory measures may include, among others, adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. Although the emissions of greenhouse gases from international shipping currently are not subject to the Kyoto Protocol for now, a new treaty may be adopted in the future that includes restrictions on shipping emissions. Compliance with changes in laws and regulations relating to climate change could increase our costs of operating and maintaining our vessels and could require us to install new emission controls, acquire allowances or pay taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions, or administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. Revenue generation and strategic growth opportunities may also be adversely affected. Adverse effects upon the oil and gas industry relating to climate change, including growing public concern about the environmental impact of climate change, may also have an affect on demand for our services. For example, increased regulation of greenhouse gases or other concerns relating to climate change may reduce the demand for oil and gas in the future or create greater incentives for use of alternative energy sources. Any long-term material adverse effect on the oil and gas industry could have a significant financial and operational adverse impact on our business that we cannot predict with certainty at this time. We may incur significant liability that would increase our expenses, if any, of our LNG carriers or FSRUs discharged fuel oil (bunkers) into the environment. International environmental conventions, laws and regulations, including the laws of the United States, apply to our LNG carriers and FSRUs. If any of the vessels that we own or operate were to discharge fuel oil into the environment, we could face claims under these conventions, laws and regulations. We must also carry evidence of financial responsibility for our vessels under these regulations. United States law also permits individual states to impose their own liability regimes with regard to oil pollution incidents occurring within their boundaries, and a number of states have enacted legislation providing for unlimited liability for oil spills. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. 23 If we are in default of certain obligations, such as those to our crew members, suppliers of goods and services to our vessels or shippers of cargo, these parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against one or more of our vessels for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. In a few jurisdictions, claimants could try to assert "sister ship" liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our vessels. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of money to have the arrest lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the "sister ship" theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any "associated" vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner under some of our present charters. If the vessel is arrested or detained for as few as 14 days as a result of a claim against us, we may be in default of our charter and the charterer may terminate the charter. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency without adequate compensation, resulting in a loss of earnings. A government could requisition one or more of our vessels for title or for hire. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes her owner, while requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes her charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency, although governments may elect to requisition vessels in other circumstances. Although we would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition of one or more of our vessels, the amount and timing of payment could be materially less than the charterhire that would have been payable to us otherwise. In addition, we would bear all risk of loss or damage to a vessel under requisition for hire. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels may negatively impact our revenues and reduce the amount of dividends paid, if any, to our shareholders. We may be subject to litigation that, if not resolved in our favor and not sufficiently insured against, could have a material adverse effect on us. We may be, from time to time, involved in various litigation matters. These matters may include, among other things, contract disputes, personal injury claims, environmental claims or proceedings, asbestos and other toxic tort claims, employment matters, governmental claims for taxes or duties and other litigation that arises in the ordinary course of our business. Although we intend to defend these matters vigorously, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or other litigation matter, and the ultimate outcome of any litigation or the potential costs to resolve them may have a material adverse effect on us. Insurance may not be applicable or sufficient in all cases and/or insurers may not remain solvent, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Risks Related to our Common Shares Our Chairman may have the ability to effectively control the outcome of significant corporate actions. As of December 31, 2010, World Shipholding, a company indirectly controlled by Trusts established by John Fredriksen, our chairman, for the benefit of his immediate family, beneficially owned 45.8% of our outstanding common shares. As a result, Mr. Fredriksen and his affiliated entities have the potential ability to effectively control the outcome of matters on which our shareholders are entitled to vote, including the election of all directors and other significant corporate actions. Fluctuations in the price and volume of shares of listed companies generally could result in the volatility of our share price. Generally, stock markets have recently experienced extensive price and volume fluctuations, and the market prices of securities of shipping companies have experienced fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating results of those companies. Our share price has been subject to significant volatility. Since September 30, 2010, the closing market price of our common shares on the NASDAQ Global Select Market has ranged from a high of $25.96 per share on March 31, 2011 to a low of $12.08 per share on October 4, 2010, largely reflecting the market for shares such as ours. As of April 26, 2011, our share price was $31.20. The market price of our common shares may continue to fluctuate due to factors such as actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly or annual results and those of other public companies in our industry, the suspension of our dividend payments, mergers and strategic alliances in the shipping industry, market conditions in the LNG shipping industry, shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts, announcements concerning us or our competitors and the general state of the securities market. The market for common shares in this industry may be equally volatile. Therefore, we cannot assure you that you will be able to sell any of our common shares that you may have purchased at a price greater than or equal to its original purchase price. 24 As of April 27, 2010, the Company owned 95.1% of Golar Energy's shares and 65% of Golar LNG Partners LP, or Golar Partners, shares, and investor ownership in Golar Energy and Golar Partners may be further diluted by the issuance of additional common shares including stock dividends. Further exchange listings and/or stock dividends may have the following effects: · Golar Energy and/or Golar Partners may issue additional common shares, or we may sell all or part of our holdings in Golar Energy and/or Golar Partners further diluting your indirect ownership interest. · Conflicts of interest may arise between the non-controlling shareholders, and us, the majority shareholder · The amount of cash available for paying dividends may decrease. · The market price of our common shares may decrease. Because we are a Bermuda corporation, you may have less recourse against us or our directors than shareholders of a U.S. company have against the directors of that U.S. Company. Because we are a Bermuda company, the rights of holders of our common shares will be governed by Bermuda law and our memorandum of association and bye-laws. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law may differ from the rights of shareholders in other jurisdictions. Among these differences is a Bermuda law provision that permits a company to exempt a director from liability for any negligence, default, or breach of a fiduciary duty except for liability resulting directly from that director's fraud or dishonesty. Our bye-laws provide that no director or officer shall be liable to us or our shareholders unless the director's or officer's liability results from that person's fraud or dishonesty. Our bye-laws also require us to indemnify a director or officer against any losses incurred by that director or officer resulting from their negligence or breach of duty, except where such losses are the result of fraud or dishonesty. Accordingly, we carry directors' and officers' insurance to protect against such a risk. In addition, under Bermuda law, the directors of a Bermuda company owe their duties to that company and not to the shareholders. Bermuda law does not, generally, permit shareholders of a Bermuda company to bring an action for a wrongdoing against the company, but rather the company itself is generally the proper plaintiff in an action against the directors for a breach of their fiduciary duties. These provisions of Bermuda law and our bye-laws, as well as other provisions not discussed here, may differ from the law of jurisdictions with which investors may be more familiar and may substantially limit or prohibit shareholders ability to bring suit against our directors. Future sales of our common shares could cause the market price of our common shares to decline. Sales of a substantial number of our common shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, may depress the market price for our common shares. These sales could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity securities in the future. Because our offices and most of our assets are outside the United States, you may not be able to bring suit against us, or enforce a judgment obtained against us in the United States. We, and most of our subsidiaries, are or will be incorporated in jurisdictions outside the U.S. and substantially all of our assets and those of our subsidiaries and will be located outside the U.S. In addition, most of our directors and officers are or will be non-residents of the U.S., and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these non-residents are or will be located outside the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for U.S. investors to serve process within the U.S. upon us, our subsidiaries, or our directors and officers, or to enforce a judgment against us for civil liabilities in U.S. courts. In addition, you should not assume that courts in the countries in which we or our subsidiaries are incorporated or where our or our subsidiaries' assets are located would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our subsidiaries based upon the civil liability provisions of applicable U.S. federal and state securities laws, or would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us or our subsidiaries based on those laws. 25 Disruptions in world financial markets and the resulting governmental action in the United States and in other parts of the world could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and could cause the market price of shares of our common stock to decline. The United States and other parts of the world have and continue to experience weakened economic conditions and have been in a recession. For example, the credit markets in the United States and worldwide have experienced significant contraction, deleveraging and reduced liquidity, and governments around the world have taken highly significant measures in response to such events, and may implement other significant responses in the future. Securities and futures markets, and the credit markets, are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and other requirements. The SEC, other regulators, self-regulatory organizations and exchanges have enacted temporary emergency regulations and may take other extraordinary actions in the event of market emergencies, and may effect changes in law or interpretations of existing laws. A number of financial institutions have experienced financial difficulties and, in some cases, have entered bankruptcy proceedings or are in regulatory enforcement actions. The uncertainty surrounding the recovery of the credit markets in the United States and the rest of the world has resulted in reduced access to credit worldwide that is especially evident in our industry. Over the last few years, certain banking institutions have been forced to record heavy losses from troubled shipping loans. These difficulties may adversely affect the financial institutions that provide our credit facilities and may impair their ability to continue to perform under their financing obligations to us, which could have an impact on our ability to fund current and future obligations. The uncertainty surrounding the future of the credit markets in the United States and the rest of the world has resulted in reduced access to credit worldwide. These difficulties may adversely affect the financial institutions that provide our credit facilities and may impair their ability to continue to perform under their financing obligations to us, which could have an impact on our ability to fund current and future obligations, including our ability to take delivery of our new vessels. We face risks attendant to changes in economic environments, changes in interest rates and instability in the banking and securities markets around the world, among other factors. Major market disruptions and adverse changes in market conditions and the regulatory climate in the United States and worldwide may adversely affect our business or impair our ability to borrow amounts under our credit facilities or any future financial arrangements. We cannot predict how long the current market conditions will last. However, these recent and developing economic and governmental factors, including proposals to reform the financial system, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows and could cause the price of our common shares to decline significantly or impair our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Investor confidence and the market price of our common stock may be adversely impacted if we are unable to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires us to include in our annual report on Form 20-F, our management's report on, and assessment of the effectiveness of, our internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, we will not be in compliance with all of the requirements imposed by Section 404. Any failure to comply with Section 404 could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could harm our business and could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. We believe the ongoing costs of complying with these requirements may be substantial. 