D. Risk Factors Some of the following risks relate principally to our business or to the industry in which we operate. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and ownership of our shares. Any of these risks, or any additional risks not presently known to us or risks that we currently deem immaterial, could significantly and adversely affect our business, our financial condition, our operating results and the trading price of our common shares. Risks Related to our Business We generate a substantial majority of our revenue from a limited number of customers under long-term agreements, the unanticipated termination or loss of one or more of these agreements or these customers would likely interrupt our related cash flow. We receive a substantial majority of our revenues and cash flow from a limited number of customers. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we received 93.3% of our revenues from four customers, BG Group plc, or BG, accounted for 27.4%, Royal Dutch Shell Plc, or Shell, accounted for 20.4%, PT Pertamina (PERSERO), or Pertamina, accounted for 18.1% and Petrobras accounted for 27.4% of our total operating revenues, respectively. After the conversion of the Golar Freeze in the second quarter of 2010, into floating storage re-gasification units, or FSRUs, the vessel will be scheduled to be employed under 10-year time charter with Dubai Supply Authority, or DUSUP. Upon such employment we expect to receive a majority of our revenue from BG, Shell, Pertamina, Petrobras and DUSUP. 5 We may be unable to retain our existing customers if: 1. our customers are unable to make charter payments because of its financial inability, disagreements with us or otherwise; 2. in certain circumstances, our customers may exercise their right to terminate their charters early, in the event of: a. a loss of the vessel or damage to it beyond repair; b. a default of our obligations under the charter, including prolonged periods of off-hire; c. a war or hostilities that would significantly disrupt the free trade of the vessel; d. a requisition by any governmental authority; e. with respect to the Golar Spirit, Golar Winter and Golar Freeze, upon six months' written notice at any time after the fifth anniversary of the commencement of the charter, the charterers (Petrobras and DUSUP) may exercise their option to terminate the charter upon payment of a termination fee; f. with respect to the Golar Spirit and Golar Winter, Petrobras may exercise its option to purchase each vessel after a specified period of time; or g. with respect to the Golar Freeze, the charterer may terminate the charter because we fail to deliver the vessel on time or the vessel fails to satisfy certain contractual performance requirements after delivery. 3. a prolonged force majeure event affecting the customer, including damage to or destruction of relevant production facilities, war or political unrest which may prevent us from performing services for that customer. The loss of any of our customers may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our growth depends on our ability to expand relationships with existing customers and obtain new customers, for which we will face substantial competition. One of our principal objectives is to enter into additional medium or long-term, fixed-rate LNG carrier or FSRU time charters. The process of obtaining new long-term time charters is highly competitive and generally involves an intensive screening process and competitive bids, and often extends for several months. LNG carrier or FSRU time charters contracts are awarded based upon a variety of factors relating to the vessel operator, including: • shipping industry relationships and reputation for customer service and safety; • LNG shipping and FSRU experience and quality of operations (including cost effectiveness); • quality and experience of seafaring crew; • the ability to finance LNG carriers at competitive rates and financial stability generally; • being able to deliver the LNG carrier or FSRU within the time frame required; • willingness to accept operational risks pursuant to the charter; and • competitiveness of the bid in terms of overall price. We operate some of our vessels on fixed-term charters or in the spot/short-term charter market for LNG vessels. Failure to find profitable employment for these vessels, or our other vessels following completion of their fixed-term agreements, could adversely affect our operations. 6 Currently, we have ten vessels contracted on medium or long-term charters, which expire between 2010 and 2024, and one vessel commencing its long-term charter in the second quarter of 2010, respectively. Our other vessels are available for trade or trading in the spot/short-term charter market, the market for chartering a liquid natural gas, or LNG, carrier for a single voyage or short time period of up to one year. However, two of our vessels (one of which is our 50% equity interest in the vessel, the Gandria) are currently in lay-up and are unlikely to trade for the balance of 2010. Medium to long-term time charters generally provide reliable revenues but they also limit the portion of our fleet available to the spot/short-term market during an upswing in the LNG industry cycle, when spot/short-term market voyages might be more profitable. The charter rates payable under time charters or in the spot market may be uncertain and volatile and will depend upon, among other things, economic conditions in the LNG market. The supply and demand balance for LNG carriers and FSRUs is also uncertain. In the period from 2004, the excess supply of vessels over demand has negatively impacted our results and we expect this oversupply to continue during 2010 as LNG carriers continue to be delivered ahead of LNG production projects for which they were built. Until these LNG production projects commence and utilize some of these vessels, the supply of LNG carriers is likely to be greater than the demand, which would have a negative impact on charter rates and levels of utilization of LNG carriers in the spot short-term charter market. Additionally, the fall in demand for natural gas worldwide due to the current economic climate and the subsequent fall in gas prices could have a negative impact on LNG shipping demand. The earnings from our vessels on medium-term charters to Shell will also be impacted by the development of charter rates and demand in the spot market. These factors could also influence the results of operations from spot market activities and the Shell charters during and beyond 2010. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully employ our vessels in the future or re-deploy our LNG carriers and FSRUs following completion of their fixed-term agreements at rates sufficient to allow us to operate our business profitably or meet our obligations. If we are unable to re-deploy an LNG carrier or FSRU, such as the LNG carriers currently in lay-up, we will not receive any revenues from that vessel, but we may be required to pay expenses necessary to maintain the vessel in proper operating condition. A decline in charter or spot rates or a failure to successfully charter our vessels could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and ability to meet our financing obligations. Our charters with Shell have variable rates and certain termination rights. Three of our vessels are time chartered to Shell, the Golar Viking, the Golar Grand and the Golar Maria, under five-year charter agreements, which may be terminated by Shell under certain circumstances. The charter rates we earn from these medium-term charters are variable and are directly connected to prevailing market rates. In the event that Shell does not employ the vessels for their own use, they must market the vessels for use by third parties. If Shell cannot find employment for these ships there could be periods where the vessels incur commercial waiting time and do not generate revenues. If these vessels are not employed profitably, or the charters are terminated, our cash flows may be seriously impacted. We are subject to certain risks with respect to our counterparties on contracts, and failure of such counterparties to meet their obligations could cause us to suffer losses or otherwise adversely affect our business. We enter into among other things, charter-parties with our customers, conversion contracts with shipyards, credit facilities with banks, interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps and equity swaps. Such agreements subject us to counterparty risks. The ability of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations under a contract with us will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the LNG market and charter rates. In addition, in depressed market conditions, our charterers and customers may no longer need a vessel that is currently under charter or may be able to obtain a comparable vessel at a lower rate. As a result, charterers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing charter parties or avoid their obligations under these contracts. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under agreements with us, we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Due to the lack of diversification in our lines of business, adverse developments in the LNG industry would negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. 7 Currently, we rely primarily on the revenues generated from our business of transporting and regasifying LNG. Due to the lack of diversification in our lines of business, an adverse development in our LNG business, or in the LNG industry, generally would have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. We may incur losses if we are unable to expand profitably into other areas of the LNG industry. A principal component of our strategy is to expand profitably into other areas of the LNG industry beyond the traditional transportation of LNG for example liquefaction projects. Other than the recent FSRU conversions of the Golar Spirit and the Golar Winter, we have not been involved in FSRU or other LNG industry businesses and our expansion into these areas may not be profitable and we may incur losses including losses in respect of expenses incurred in relation to project development. Our ability to integrate vertically into upstream and downstream LNG activities depends materially on our ability to identify attractive partners and projects and obtain project financing at a reasonable cost. If there are substantial delays or cost overruns in completion of the modification of our vessels to FSRUs or if they do not meet certain performance requirements our earnings and financial condition could suffer. In September 2007, we entered into time charter agreements with Petrobras which required the modification of the Golar Spirit and the Golar Winter FSRUs. After their respective conversions, both the Golar Spirit and the Golar Winter are chartered by Petrobras on 10-year time charters. In April 2008, we entered into a time charter with DUSUP which required the modification of the Golar Freeze into a FSRU. The time charter is for a period of 10 years with a charterer's option to extend the charter for an additional five years. The DUSUP charter will commence on the delivery of the vessel, which we expect in the second quarter of 2010. The Golar Freeze entered the shipyard to begin modification work in September 2009. Due to the highly technical process, retrofitting an existing LNG carrier for FSRU service may only be performed by a limited number of contractors, thus, a change of contractors may result in higher costs or a significant delay to our existing delivery schedule. Furthermore, the completion of the retrofitting of LNG carriers is subject to the risk of cost overrun. Any delay in delivery to DUSUP would likely lead to us paying liquidated damages. Any substantial delay in the modification of our LNG vessels into FSRUs would result in our breach of the DUSUP time charter agreement, which may lead to its termination. In addition, if the vessel does not meet the performance requirements under the charter, the charter rate could be adjusted downwards or the contract cancelled. The occurrence of any or a combination of the above risks would have a significant negative impact on our cash flows and earnings. An increase in costs could materially and adversely affect our financial performance. Our vessel operating expenses and drydock capital expenditure depend on a variety of factors including crew costs, provisions, deck and engine stores and spares, lubricating oil, insurance, maintenance and repairs and shipyard costs, many of which are beyond our control and affect the entire shipping industry. Also, while we do not bear the cost of fuel (bunkers) under our time charters, fuel is a significant, if not the largest, expense in our operations when our vessels are idle during periods of commercial waiting time or when positioning or repositioning before or after a time charter. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil-producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. These may increase vessel operating and drydocking costs further. If costs continue to rise, they could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel in the LNG industry, which may negatively impact the effectiveness of our management and our results of operation. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and the efforts of our senior executives. While we believe that we have an experienced management team, the loss or unavailability of one or more of our senior executives for any extended period of time could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 8 A shortage of qualified officers and crew could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. LNG carriers and FSRUs require a technically skilled officer staff with specialized training. As the world LNG carrier fleet and FSRU fleet continue to grow, the demand for technically skilled officers and crew has been increasing, which has led to a shortfall of such personnel. Increases in our historical vessel operating expenses have been attributable primarily to the rising costs of recruiting and retaining officers for our fleet. In addition, our FSRUs will require an additional engineer, deck officer and cargo officer. Furthermore, each key officer crewing an FSRU must receive specialized training related to the operation and maintenance of the regasification equipment. If we or our third party ship managers are unable to employ technically skilled staff and crew, we will not be able to adequately staff our vessels. A material decrease in the supply of technically skilled officers or an inability of our third party managers to attract and retain such qualified officers could impair our ability to operate or increase the cost of crewing our vessels, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and significantly reduce our ability to make distributions to shareholders. In addition, the Golar Spirit and Golar Winter are employed by Petrobras in Brazil. As a result, we are required to hire a certain portion of Brazilian personnel to crew these vessels in accordance with Brazilian law. Any inability to attract and retain qualified Brazilian crew members could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks, piracy, increased hostilities or war could lead to further economic instability, increased costs and disruption of our business. Terrorist attacks such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, the bombings in Spain on March 11, 2004, in London on July 7, 2005, and the attacks in Mumbai on November 26, 2008, and the continuing response of the United States and others to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, continue to cause uncertainty in the world's financial markets and may affect our business, operating results, financial condition, ability to raise capital and future growth. The continuing presence of the United States and other armed forces in Iraq and Afghanistan may lead to additional armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea and the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. Terrorist attacks on vessels, such as the October 2002 attack on the M.V. Limburg, a very large crude carrier not related to us, may in the future also negatively affect our operations and financial condition and directly impact our vessels or our customers. Future terrorist attacks could result in increased volatility and turmoil of the financial markets in the United States and globally. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our revenues and costs. In addition, LNG facilities, shipyards, vessels (including conventional LNG carriers and FSRUs), pipelines and gas fields could be targets of future terrorist attacks or piracy. Any such attacks could lead to, among other things, bodily injury or loss of life, vessel or other property damage, increased vessel operational costs, including insurance costs, and the inability to transport LNG to or from certain locations. Terrorist attacks, war or other events beyond our control that adversely affect the production, storage, transportation or regasification of LNG to be shipped or processed by us could entitle our customers to terminate our charter contracts, which would harm our cash flow and our business. Terrorist attacks, or the perception that LNG facilities, LNG carriers and FSRUs are potential terrorist targets, could materially and adversely affect expansion of LNG infrastructure and the continued supply of LNG to the United States and other countries. Concern that LNG facilities may be targeted for attack by terrorists has contributed to significant community and environmental resistance to the construction of a number of LNG facilities, primarily in North America. If a terrorist incident involving an LNG facility, LNG carrier or FSRU did occur, in addition to the possible effects identified in the previous paragraph, the incident may adversely affect construction of additional LNG facilities or FSRUs or the temporary or permanent closing of various LNG facilities or FSRUs currently in operation. Our loan and lease agreements are secured by our vessels and contain operating and financial restrictions and other covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities and our ability to make cash distributions to our shareholders. Covenants in our loan and lease agreements require the consent of our lenders and our lessors or otherwise limit our ability to: 9 · merge into or consolidate with any other entity or sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of their assets; · make or pay equity distributions; · incur additional indebtedness; · incur or make any capital expenditure; · materially amend, or terminate, any of our current charter contracts or management agreements; or · charter our vessels If the ownership interest in us controlled by World Shipholding Ltd of Liberia, a company indirectly controlled by Trusts established by John Fredriksen for the benefit of his immediate family fell below 25% of our share capital, a default of some of our loan agreements and lease agreements to which we are a party would occur. Similarly, if we were to be in any other form of default which we could not remedy, such as payment default, our lessors, having legal title to our leased vessels, or our lenders, who have mortgages over some of our vessels, could be entitled to sell our vessels in order to repay our debt and or lease liabilities. Covenants in our loan and lease agreements may effectively prevent us from paying dividends should our board of directors wish to do so and may require us to obtain permission from our lenders and lessors to engage in some other corporate actions. Our lenders' and lessors' interests may be different from those of our shareholders and we cannot guarantee investors that we will be able to obtain our lenders' and lessors' permission when needed. This may adversely affect our earnings and prevent us from taking actions that could be in our shareholders' best interests. As of March 31, 2010, we were in compliance with all of the covenants contained in our loan and lease agreements. If we do not maintain the financial ratios contained in our loan and lease agreements or we are in any other form of default such as payment default, we could face acceleration of the due date of our debt and the loss of our vessels. Our loan and lease agreements require us to maintain specific financial levels and ratios, including minimum amounts of available cash, ratios of current assets to current liabilities (excluding current long-term debt), ratios of net debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization and the level of stockholders' equity, minimum loan to value clauses and debt service coverage ratios. Although we currently comply with these requirements if we were to fall below these levels we would be in default of our loans and lease agreements and the due date of our debt could be accelerated and our lease agreements terminated, which could result in the loss of our vessels. Our ability to comply with covenants and restrictions contained in our loan and lease agreements may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in our debt instruments are breached, a significant portion of the obligations may become immediately due and payable. In the event we enter into waiver agreements with our lenders for covenant breaches, such waiver agreements may result in a significant increase in our debt cost. We may not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments and if we are unable to repay debt under the credit facilities, the lenders could seek to foreclose on those assets. In addition, obligations under our financing arrangements are secured by certain of our vessels and guaranteed by our subsidiaries holding the interests in our vessels. We may not have sufficient cash from operations to enable us to pay quarterly dividends following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses. We may not have sufficient cash available each quarter to pay quarterly dividends. The amount of cash we can distribute depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which may fluctuate based on, among other things: • the rates we obtain from our charters; • the level of our operating costs, such as the cost of crews and insurance; • the continued availability of LNG, liquefaction and regasification facilities; • the number of unscheduled off-hire days for our fleet and the timing of, and number of days required for, scheduled drydocking of our vessels; 10 • prevailing global and regional economic and political conditions; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; and • the effect of governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards on the conduct of our business. The actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution also will depend on factors such as: • the level of capital expenditures we make, including for maintaining vessels, building new vessels, acquiring existing vessels and complying with regulations; • our debt service requirements and restrictions on distributions contained in our debt instruments; • fluctuations in our working capital needs; • our ability to make working capital borrowings, including to pay distributions to shareholders; • the amount of any cash reserves, including reserves for future capital expenditures and other matters, established; and • our ability to raise debt finance in respect of expenditure relating to the conversion of the Golar Freeze and to refinance its existing debt. We may not be able to obtain financing to fund our growth or our future capital expenditures, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. In order to fund future FSRUs, liquefaction projects, vessel acquisitions, increased working capital levels or other capital expenditures, we may be required to use cash from operations, incur borrowings or raise capital through the sale of debt or additional equity securities. Use of cash from operations may reduce the amount of cash available for dividend distributions. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for any future debt or equity offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of such financing or offering, as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain funds for future capital expenditures could impact our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. The issuance of additional equity securities would dilute your interest in our Company and reduce dividends payable to you. Even if we are successful in obtaining bank financing, paying debt service would limit cash available for working capital and increasing our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability pay dividends. Eight of our vessels are financed by U.K. tax leases. In the event of any adverse tax changes or a successful challenge by the U.K. Revenue authorities with regard to the initial tax basis of the transactions or in the event of an early termination of a lease, we may be required to make additional payments to the U.K. vessel lessors, which could adversely affect our earnings and financial position. Eight of our vessels are financed by U.K. tax leases. In the event of any adverse tax changes to legislation affecting the tax treatment of the leases for the U.K. vessel lessors or a successful challenge by the U.K. Revenue authorities to the tax assumptions on which the transactions were based, or in the event that we terminate any of our U.K. tax leases before their expiration, we would be required to return all or a portion of, or in certain circumstances significantly more than, the upfront cash benefits that we have received or that have accrued over time, together with fees that were incurred in connection with our lease financing transactions, or post additional security or make additional payments to the U.K. vessel lessors. Any additional payments could adversely affect our earnings and financial position. The upfront benefits we have received equates to the cash inflow we received in connection with the six leases we entered into during 2003 (in total a gross amount before deduction of fees of approximately £41 million British pounds, or GBP). Two of our U.K. tax leases accrue benefit over the term of the leases. The remaining six UK tax leases were structured so that a cash benefit was received up front. Servicing our debt and lease agreements substantially limits our funds available for other purposes. A large portion of our cash flow from operations is used to repay the principal and interest on our debt and lease agreements. As of December 31, 2009, our net indebtedness (including loan debt, capital lease obligations, net of restricted cash and short-term deposits and net of cash and cash equivalents) was $878.1 million and our ratio of net indebtedness to total capital (comprising net indebtedness plus shareholders' equity and noncontrolling interest) was 0.57. 11 We may also incur additional indebtedness to fund our possible expansion into other areas of the LNG industry, for example in respect of our FSRU projects. Debt payments reduce our funds available for expansion into other parts of the LNG industry, working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes. In addition, our business is capital intensive and requires significant capital outlays that result in high fixed costs. We cannot assure investors that our existing and future contracts will provide revenues adequate to cover all of our fixed and variable costs. An increase in interest rates could materially and adversely affect our financial performance. As of December 31, 2009, we had a total long-term debt and net capital lease obligations (net of restricted cash) outstanding of $1,011.6 million of which currently $358.2 million is exposed to a floating rate of interest. We use interest rate swaps to manage interest rate risk. As of December 31, 2009, our interest rate swap arrangements effectively fix the interest rate exposure on $643.4 million of floating rate bank debt and capital lease obligation. In addition there is $10 million of fixed rate debt. If interest rates rise significantly, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Increases and decreases in interest rates will affect the cost of floating rate debt but may also affect the mark-to-market valuation of interest rate swaps which will also affect our results. Additionally, to the extent that our lease obligations are secured by restricted cash deposits, our exposure to interest rate movements is hedged to a large extent. However, movements in interest rates may require us to place more cash into our restricted deposits and this could also materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations will result in fluctuations in our cash flows and operating results. Currency exchange rate fluctuations and currency devaluations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations from quarter to quarter. Historically our revenue has been generated in U.S. Dollars, but we incur capital, operating and administrative expenses in multiple currencies. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange fluctuations as a result of expenses paid by certain subsidiaries in currencies other than U.S. Dollars, such as GBP, in relation to our administrative office in the U.K., operating expenses incurred in a variety of foreign currencies including Euros and Singapore Dollars, among others; and multiple currencies including Euros, Singapore Dollars and Norwegian Krone in respect of our FSRU conversion contracts. If the U.S. Dollar weakens significantly this could increase our expenses and therefore could have a negative effect on our financial results. Under the charters for the Golar Spirit and the Golar Winter, we will generate a portion of our revenues in Brazilian Reais. Income under these charters is split into two components. The component that relates to operating expenses (the minority) is paid in Brazilian Reais, whereas the capital component is paid in U.S. Dollars. We will incur some operating expenses in Brazilian Reais but we will also have to convert Brazilian Reais into other currencies, including U.S. Dollars, in order to pay the remaining operating expenses incurred in other currencies. If the Brazilian Real weakens significantly, we may not have sufficient Brazilian Reais to convert to other currencies to satisfy our obligations in respect of the operating expenses related to these charters, which would have a negative effect on our financial results and cash flows. We have entered into currency forward contracts or similar derivatives to mitigate our exposure to these foreign exchange rate fluctuations in respect of our capital commitments relating to our FSRU conversion contracts. Eight of our vessels are financed by U.K. tax leases, seven of which are denominated in GBPs. The majority of our GBP capital lease obligations are hedged by GBP cash deposits securing the lease obligations or by currency swap. However, these are not perfect hedges and a significant strengthening of the U.S. Dollar could give rise to an increase in our financial expenses and could materially affect our financial results (See Item 11- Foreign currency risk). Exposure to equity price risk in our shares and in the shares of other companies could adversely affect our financial results. As a result of our holding of treasury shares as of March 31, 2010 we are effectively exposed to the movement in our share price in respect of 450,000 treasury shares. We may have to pay tax on United States source income, which would reduce our earnings. 12 Under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States, may be subject to a 4% U.S. federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the applicable Treasury Regulations recently promulgated thereunder. We expect that we and each of our subsidiaries will qualify for this statutory tax exemption and we will take this position for U.S. federal income tax return reporting purposes. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption and thereby become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our U.S. source income. Therefore, we can give no assurances on our tax-exempt status or that of any of our subsidiaries. If, we or our subsidiaries, are not entitled to exemption under Section 883 of the Code for any taxable year, we, or our subsidiaries, could be subject for those years to an effective 4% U.S. federal income tax on the gross shipping income these companies derive during the year that are attributable to the transport or cargoes to or from the United States. The imposition of this tax would have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. United States tax authorities could treat us as a "passive foreign investment company", which could have adverse United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a "passive foreign investment company," or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of "passive income" or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation's assets produce or are held for the production of those types of "passive income." For purposes of these tests, "passive income" includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute "passive income." U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. Based on our current and expected future method of operation, we do not believe that we will be a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that our income from our time chartering activities does not constitute "passive income," and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets. There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our method of operation. We believe there is substantial legal authority supporting our position consisting of case law and United States Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, pronouncements concerning the characterization of income derived from time charters and voyage charters as services income for other tax purposes. However, we note that there is also authority which characterizes time charter income as rental income rather than services income for other tax purposes. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the IRS or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our U.S. shareholders will face adverse U.S. tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless those shareholders make an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such shareholders), such shareholders would be liable to pay U.S. federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common stock, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder's holding period of our common stock. Please see the section of this annual report entitled "Taxation" under Item 10E for a more comprehensive discussion of the U.S. federal income tax consequences if we were to be treated as a PFIC. 13 We are a holding company, and our ability to pay dividends will be limited by the value of investments we currently hold and by the distribution of funds from our subsidiaries. We are a holding company whose assets mainly comprise of equity interests in our subsidiaries and other quoted and non-quoted companies. As a result, should we decide to pay dividends we would be dependent on the performance of our operating subsidiaries and other investments. If we were not able to receive sufficient funds from our subsidiaries and other investments, including from the sale of our investment interests, we will not be able to pay dividends unless we obtain funds from other sources. We may not be able to obtain the necessary funds from other sources on terms acceptable to us. Risks Related to the LNG Shipping and FSRU Industry The operation of LNG carriers and FSRUs is inherently risky, and an incident involving significant loss or environmental consequences involving any of our vessels could harm our reputation and business. The operation of an ocean-going vessel carries inherent risks. These risks include the possibility of: · Marine disaster; · Piracy; · Environmental accidents; and · Business interruptions caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, political action in various countries, labor strikes, or adverse weather conditions. Any of these circumstances or events could increase our costs or lower our revenues. The involvement of our vessels in an oil spill or other environmental disaster may harm our reputation as a safe and reliable LNG carrier operator. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired. The costs of vessel repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. We may have to pay repair costs that our insurance policies do not cover. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our results of operations. If one of our vessels were involved in an accident with the potential risk of environmental contamination, the resulting media coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and cash flows, weaken our financial condition and negatively affect our ability to pay dividends. The recent global financial crisis could negatively impact our business. Recently, the credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and difficulties characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, or sale of various financial institutions. The ongoing global financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets has resulted in a severe tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in financial markets, and volatility in credit and equity markets. This financial crisis may negatively impact our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. In addition, the uncertainty about current and future global economic conditions caused by the financial crisis may cause our customers and governments to defer projects in response to tighter credit, decreased cash availability and declining customer confidence which may negatively impact the demand for our services. The recent tightening of the credit markets may further negatively impact our operations by affecting the solvency of our suppliers or customers which could lead to disruptions in delivery of supplies such as equipment for conversions, cost increases for supplies, accelerated payments to suppliers, customer bad debts or reduced revenues. Furthermore, a further decline in our share price or significant adverse change in market conditions could require us to take a further material impairment charge related to our long-term assets. The recent economic downturn may affect our customers' ability to charter our vessels and pay for our services and may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The recent economic downturn in the global financial markets may lead to a decline in our customers' operations or ability to pay for our services, which could result in decreased demand for our vessels and services. Our customer's inability to pay could also result in their default on our current contracts and charters. The decline in the amount of services requested by our customers or their default on our contracts with them could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot determine whether the difficult conditions in the economy and the financial markets will improve or worsen in the near future. 14 Decreases in charter rates for LNG carriers and FSRUs when we are seeking to re-deploy our vessels may adversely affect our earnings. Charter rates for LNG carriers and FSRUs fluctuate over time as a result of changes in the supply-demand balance relating to current and future LNG capacity. This supply-demand relationship largely depends on a number of factors outside our control. The LNG market is closely connected to world natural gas prices and energy markets, which we cannot predict. A substantial or extended decline in natural gas prices could adversely affect our charter business as well as our business opportunities. Our ability from time to time to charter or re-charter any vessel at attractive rates will depend on, among other things, the prevailing economic conditions in the LNG industry. The LNG transportation industry is competitive and we may not be able to compete successfully, which would adversely affect our earnings. The LNG transportation industry in which we operate is competitive, especially with respect to the negotiation of long-term charters. Competition arises primarily from other LNG carrier owners, some of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. Furthermore, new competitors with greater resources could enter the market for LNG carriers and FSRUs and operate larger fleets through consolidations, acquisitions, or the purchase of new vessels, and may be able to offer lower charter rates and more modern fleets. If we are not able to compete successfully, our earnings could be adversely affected. Competition may also prevent us from achieving our goal of profitably expanding into other areas of the LNG industry. Our vessels are required to trade globally and we must therefore conduct our operations in many parts of the world, and accordingly our vessels are exposed to international risks, which could reduce revenue or increase expenses. We conduct global operations and transport LNG from politically unstable regions. Changing economic, regulatory and political conditions in some countries, including political and military conflicts, have from time to time resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways, piracy, terrorism and other efforts to disrupt shipping. The terrorist attacks against targets in the United States on September 11, 2001, the military response by the United States and the conflict in Iraq may increase the likelihood of acts of terrorism worldwide. Acts of terrorism, regional hostilities or other political instability could affect LNG trade patterns and reduce our revenue or increase our expenses. Further, we could be forced to incur additional and unexpected costs in order to comply with changes in the laws or regulations of the nations in which our vessels operate. These additional costs could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenue, and costs. The aging of our fleet may result in increased operating costs in the future, which could adversely affect our earnings. In general, the cost of maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increases with the age of the vessel. As our fleet ages, we will incur increased costs. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology. Cargo insurance rates also increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations, including environmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment, to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage. As our vessels age, market conditions might not justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have recently increased in frequency, which could adversely affect our business. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea and in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Throughout 2008 and 2009, the frequency of piracy incidents against commercial shipping vessels increased significantly, particularly in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. For example, in November 2008, the M/V Sirius Star, a tanker vessel not affiliated with us, was captured by pirates in the Indian Ocean while carrying crude oil estimated to be worth $100 million. If these piracy attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed being characterized by insurers as "war risk" zones, as the Gulf of Aden temporarily was in May 2008, premiums payable for such coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. In addition, crew costs, including those due to employing onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, detention hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost, or unavailability of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Our insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover losses that may occur to our property or result from our operations. The operation of LNG carriers and FSRUs is inherently risky. Although we carry protection and indemnity insurance, all risks may not be adequately insured against, and any particular claim may not be paid. Any claims covered by insurance would be subject to deductibles, and since it is possible that a large number of claims may be brought, the aggregate amount of these deductibles could be material. Certain of our insurance coverage is maintained through mutual protection and indemnity associations, and as a member of such associations we may be required to make additional payments over and above budgeted premiums if member claims exceed association reserves. We may be unable to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future. For example, more stringent environmental regulations have led in the past to increased costs for, and in the future may result in the lack of availability of, insurance against risks of environmental damage or pollution. A marine disaster could exceed our insurance coverage, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Any uninsured or underinsured loss could harm our business and financial condition. In addition, our insurance may be voidable by the insurers as a result of certain of our actions, such as our ships failing to maintain certification with applicable maritime self-regulatory organizations. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks may also make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. In addition, upon renewal or expiration of our current policies, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing coverage. We may incur significant liability that would increase our expenses if any of our LNG carriers or FSRUs discharged fuel oil (bunkers) into the environment. International environmental conventions, laws and regulations, including United States' federal laws, apply to our LNG carriers and FSRUs. If any of the vessels that we own or operate were to discharge fuel oil into the environment, we could face claims under these conventions, laws and regulations. We must also carry evidence of financial responsibility for our vessels under these regulations. United States law also permits individual states to impose their own liability regimes with regard to oil pollution incidents occurring within their boundaries, and a number of states have enacted legislation providing for unlimited liability for oil spills. Any future changes to the laws and regulations governing LNG carrier and FSRU vessels could increase our expenses to remain in compliance. The laws of the nations where our vessels operate as well as international treaties and conventions regulate the production, storage, and transportation of LNG. Our operations are materially affected by these extensive and changing environmental protection laws and other regulations and international conventions, including those relating to equipping and operating our LNG carriers and FSRUs. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, substantial expenses in complying with these laws and regulations, including expenses for vessel modifications and changes in operating procedures. While we believe that we comply with current regulations of the International Maritime Organization, or IMO, any future non-compliance could subject us to increased liability, lead to decreases in available insurance coverage for affected vessels and result in the denial of access to, or detention in, some ports. Furthermore, future United States federal and state laws and regulations as then in force, or future regulations adopted by the IMO, and any other future regulations, may limit our ability to do business or we may be forced to incur additional costs relating to such matters as LNG carrier construction, maintenance and inspection requirements, development of contingency plans for potential leakages and insurance coverage. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. 16 If we are in default of certain obligations, such as those to our crew members, suppliers of goods and services to our vessels or shippers of cargo, these parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against one or more of our vessels. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. In a few jurisdictions, claimants could try to assert "sister ship" liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our vessels. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay to have the arrest lifted. Under some of our present charters, if the vessel is arrested or detained for as few as 14 days as a result of a claim against us, we may be in default of our charter and the charterer may terminate the charter. Growth of the LNG market may be limited by infrastructure constraints and community and political group resistance to new LNG infrastructure over concerns about environmental, safety and terrorism. A complete LNG project includes production, liquefaction, regasification, storage and distribution facilities and LNG carriers. Existing LNG projects and infrastructure are limited, and new or expanded LNG projects are highly complex and capital intensive, with new projects often costing several billion dollars. Many factors could negatively affect continued development of LNG infrastructure and related alternatives, including FSRUs, or disrupt the supply of LNG, including: · increases in interest rates or other events that may affect the availability of sufficient financing for LNG projects on commercially reasonable terms; · decreases in the price of LNG, which might decrease the expected returns relating to investments in LNG projects; · the inability of project owners or operators to obtain governmental approvals to construct or operate LNG facilities; · local community resistance to proposed or existing LNG facilities based on safety, environmental or security concerns; · any significant explosion, spill or similar incident involving an LNG facility, LNG carrier or FSRU; and · labor or political unrest affecting existing or proposed areas of LNG production and regasification. We believe some of the proposals to expand existing or develop new LNG liquefaction and regasification facilities may be abandoned or significantly delayed due to the factors mentioned above. If the LNG supply chain is disrupted or does not continue to grow, or if a significant LNG explosion, spill or similar incident occurs, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. Risks Related to our Common Shares Our Chairman may have the ability to effectively control the outcome of significant corporate actions. World Shipholding Ltd., a company indirectly controlled by Trusts established by John Fredriksen, our chairman for the benefit of his immediate family, beneficially owns 46.18% of our outstanding common shares. As a result, Mr. Fredriksen and his affiliated entities have the potential ability to effectively control the outcome of matters on which our shareholders are entitled to vote, including the election of all directors and other significant corporate actions. Fluctuations in the price and volume of shares of listed companies generally could result in the volatility of our share price. Generally, stock markets have recently experienced extensive price and volume fluctuations, and the market prices of securities of shipping companies have experienced fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating results of those companies. Our share price has been subject to significant volatility. Since September 30, 2009, the closing market price of our common shares on the NASDAQ has ranged from a high of $13.90 per share on October 21, 2009 to a low of $10.59 per share on December 22, 2009, largely reflecting the market for shares such as ours. As of April 27, 2010, our share price was $13.00. The market price of our common shares may continue to fluctuate due to factors such as actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly or annual results and those of other public companies in our industry, the suspension of our dividend payments, mergers and strategic alliances in the shipping industry, market conditions in the LNG shipping industry, shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts, announcements concerning us or our competitors and the general state of the securities market. The market for common shares in this industry may be equally volatile. Therefore, we cannot assure you that you will be able to sell any of our common shares that you may have purchased at a price greater than or equal to its original purchase price. 17 The company currently owns 68% (December, 31 2009: 73.8%) of Golar Energy's shares, investor ownership in Golar Energy may be further diluted with potential issuance of additional common shares including stock dividends. Further exchange listings and/or stock dividends may have the following effects: · Golar Energy may issue additional common shares or we may sell all or part of our holdings in Golar Energy further diluting your indirect ownership interest. · Conflicts of interest may arise between the noncontrolling shareholders who currently own 32% and us, the majority shareholder who own 68%. · The amount of cash available for paying dividends may decrease. · The market price of our common shares may decrease. Because we are a Bermuda corporation, you may have less recourse against us or our directors than shareholders of a U.S. company have against the directors of that U.S. Company. Because we are a Bermuda company the rights of holders of our common shares will be governed by Bermuda law and our memorandum of association and bye-laws. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law may differ from the rights of shareholders in other jurisdictions. Among these differences is a Bermuda law provision that permits a company to exempt a director from liability for any negligence, default, or breach of a fiduciary duty except for liability resulting directly from that director's fraud or dishonesty. Our bye-laws provide that no director or officer shall be liable to us or our shareholders unless the director's or officer's liability results from that person's fraud or dishonesty. Our bye-laws also require us to indemnify a director or officer against any losses incurred by that director or officer resulting from their negligence or breach of duty except where such losses are the result of fraud or dishonesty. Accordingly, we carry directors' and officers' insurance to protect against such a risk. In addition, under Bermuda law the directors of a Bermuda company owe their duties to that company, not to the shareholders. Bermuda law does not generally permit shareholders of a Bermuda company to bring an action for a wrongdoing against the company, but rather the company itself is generally the proper plaintiff in an action against the directors for a breach of their fiduciary duties. These provisions of Bermuda law and our bye-laws, as well as other provisions not discussed here, may differ from the law of jurisdictions with which investors may be more familiar and may substantially limit or prohibit shareholders ability to bring suit against our directors. Future sales of our common shares could cause the market price of our common shares to decline. Sales of a substantial number of our common shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, may depress the market price for our common shares. These sales could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity securities in the future. Because our offices and most of our assets are outside the United States, you may not be able to bring suit against us, or enforce a judgment obtained against us in the United States. We, and all our subsidiaries, are or will be incorporated in jurisdictions outside the U.S. and substantially all of our assets and those of our subsidiaries and will be located outside the U.S. In addition, most of our directors and officers are or will be non-residents of the U.S., and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these non-residents are or will be located outside the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for U.S. investors to serve process within the U.S. upon us, our subsidiaries, or our directors and officers, or to enforce a judgment against us for civil liabilities in U.S. courts. In addition, you should not assume that courts in the countries in which we or our subsidiaries are incorporated or where our or the assets of our subsidiaries are located would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our subsidiaries based upon the civil liability provisions of applicable U.S. federal and state securities laws or would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us or our subsidiaries based on those laws. 18 Investor confidence and the market price of our common stock may be adversely impacted if we are unable to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires us to include in our annual report on Form 20-F, our management's report on, and assessment of the effectiveness of, our internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, we will not be in compliance with all of the requirements imposed by Section 404. Any failure to comply with Section 404 could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could harm our business and could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. We believe the ongoing costs of complying with these requirements may be substantial. Disruptions in world financial markets and the resulting governmental action in the United States and in other parts of the world could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and could cause the market price of shares of our common stock to decline. Over the recent period, global financial markets have experienced extraordinary disruption and volatility following adverse changes in the global credit markets. The United States and other parts of the world are exhibiting deteriorating economic trends and have been in a recession. For example, the credit markets in the United States have experienced significant contraction, deleveraging and reduced liquidity, and governments around the world have taken highly significant measures in response to such events, and may implement other significant responses in the future. Securities and futures markets and the credit markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and other requirements. The SEC, other regulators, self-regulatory organizations and exchanges have enacted temporary emergency regulations and may take other extraordinary actions in the event of market emergencies, and may effect changes in law or interpretations of existing laws. Recently, a number of financial institutions have experienced serious financial difficulties and, in some cases, have entered into bankruptcy proceedings or are in regulatory enforcement actions. These difficulties have resulted, in part, from declining markets for assets held by such institutions, particularly the reduction in the value of their mortgage and asset-backed securities portfolios. These difficulties have been compounded by a general decline in the willingness by banks and other financial institutions to extend credit. These difficulties may adversely affect the financial institutions that provide our credit facilities and may impair their ability to continue to perform under their financing obligations to us, which could have an impact on our ability to fund current and future obligations, including our ability to take delivery of our new vessels. We face risks attendant to changes in economic environments, changes in interest rates and instability in the banking and securities markets around the world, among other factors. Major market disruptions and the current adverse changes in market conditions and regulatory climate in the United States and worldwide may adversely affect our business or impair our ability to borrow amounts under our credit facilities or any future financial arrangements. We cannot predict how long the current market conditions will last. However, these recent and developing economic and governmental factors, including proposals to reform the financial system, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows and could cause the price of shares of our securities to decline significantly or impair our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Safety, environmental and other governmental requirements expose us to liability, and compliance with current and future regulations could require significant additional expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our operations are affected by extensive and changing international, national, state and local laws, regulations, treaties, conventions and standards in force in international waters, the jurisdictions in which our vessels operates and the country in which our vessels are registered, including those governing the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of oil spills and other contamination, air emissions, water discharges and ballast water management. These regulations include the United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, the United States Clean Air Act and United States Clean Water Act, the United States Marine Transportation Security Act of 2002, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969, as amended, or CLC, the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships of 1975, the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974, or SOLAS, the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966, or LL Convention, and implementing regulations adopted by the International Maritime Organization, or IMO (the United Nations agency for maritime safety and the prevention of pollution by vessels), the European Union, and other international, national and local regulatory bodies. 19 In addition, vessel classification societies also impose significant safety and other requirements on our vessels. In complying with current and future environmental requirements, vessel-owners and operators such as ourselves may also incur significant additional costs in meeting new maintenance and inspection requirements, in developing contingency arrangements for potential spills and in obtaining insurance coverage. Government regulation of vessels, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental requirements, can be expected to become stricter in the future and require us to incur significant capital expenditures on our vessels to keep it then in compliance, or even to scrap or sell our vessels altogether. For example, various jurisdictions, including the United States, are considering or have enacted legislation imposing more stringent requirements on air emissions and ballast water discharges from vessels. Many of these requirements are designed to reduce the risk of oil spills and other pollution, and our compliance with these requirements can be costly. These requirements can also affect the resale value or useful life of our vessels, require a reduction in cargo-capacity, ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions, lead to decreased availability of insurance coverage for environmental matters or result in the denial of access to certain jurisdictional waters or ports, or detention in certain ports. Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, we could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations, natural resource damages and third-party claims for personal injury or property damages, in the event that there is a release of petroleum or other hazardous substances from our vessels or otherwise in connection with our current or historic operations. We could also incur substantial penalties, fines and other civil or criminal sanctions, including in certain instances seizure or detention of our vessels, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws, regulations and other requirements. For example, OPA affects all vessel-owners shipping oil to, from or within the United States. OPA allows for potentially unlimited liability without regard to fault for owners, operators and bareboat charterers of vessels for oil pollution in United States waters. Similarly, the CLC, which has been adopted by most countries outside of the United States, imposes liability for oil pollution in international waters. OPA expressly permits individual states to impose their own liability regimes with regard to hazardous materials and oil pollution incidents occurring within their boundaries. Coastal states in the United States have enacted pollution prevention liability and response laws, many providing for unlimited liability. Extensive and changing environmental laws and other regulations, compliance with which may entail significant expenses, including expenses for ship modifications and changes in operating procedures, affect the operation of our vessels. These expenses could have an adverse effect on our business operations at any time. ITEM 