D. Risk FactorsThe following risks relate principally to our business or to the industry in which we operate. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and ownership of our common shares. Any of these risks, or any additional risks not presently known to us or risks that we currently deem immaterial, could significantly and adversely affect our business, our financial condition, our operating results and the trading price of our common shares.Risks Related to our CompanyWe cannot guarantee that our FLNG contract negotiations will progress favorably or our expansion into the FLNG market will be profitable.We continue to negotiate an employment contract for the Hilli. While on-going negotiations are positive, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to secure her employment. We continue to market our other FLNG (floating liquefaction) units to several prospective customers. Our aim is to find strong strategic partners that have an interest in utilizing one or several vessels to produce LNG from a specific defined gas reserve. It is uncertain however that a final strategic partnership can be concluded within the same time frame. This mismatch significantly increases the risks of our FLNG conversion projects but also gives us more flexibility in optimizing our projects' returns. Our inability to reach agreement on terms that are favorable to us may have an adverse effect on our financial condition.Completion of the conversion of the Hilli and Gimi will be dependent on our obtaining additional financing. As of December 31, 2014, we have approximately $2.0 billion in aggregate additional payments for the completion of the Hilli and Gimi conversions over the next 2 years. While we believe we will be able to arrange financing as necessary for the remaining payments due for the Hilli and the Gimi conversions, to the extent we do not timely obtain necessary financing, the completion of the conversions could be delayed or we could suffer financial loss, including the loss of all or a portion of the payments we had made to Keppel Shipyard Limited, or Keppel, and any deficiency if the shipyard is not able to recover its costs from the sale of the vessels..If there are substantial delays or cost overruns in completing any of our GoFLNG conversions or if the converted GoFLNG units do not meet certain performance requirements our earnings and financial condition could suffer.The Hilli will be the world’s first LNG carrier to have been retrofitted for FLNG service. Due to the new and highly technical process, each of our GoFLNG conversion projects is subject to risks that could negatively affect our earnings and financial condition, including risk of delays or cost overruns. For example, the highly technical work is only capable of being performed by a limited number of contractors. Accordingly, a change of contractors for any reason would likely result in higher costs and a significant 6delay to our delivery schedules. In addition, given the novelty of our GoFLNG conversion projects, the completion of retrofitting our vessels as GoFLNG units is generally subject to risks of significant cost overruns. As well, if the shipyard is unable to deliver any converted GoFLNG unit on time, we might be unable to perform related charters. Any substantial delay in the conversion of any of our vessels into GoFLNG units could mean we will not be able to satisfy potential employment. To date, there are no delays on the progress of the Hilli conversion.Furthermore, if any of our GoFLNG units, once converted, is not able to meet certain performance requirements or perform as intended, we may have to accept reduced charter rates. Alternatively, it may not be possible to charter the converted GoFLNG unit at all, which would have a significant negative impact on our cash flows and earnings.Our loan agreements are secured by our vessels and contain operating and financial restrictions and other covenants that may restrict our business, financing activities and ability to make cash distributions to our shareholders.Our obligations under our financing arrangements are secured by certain of our vessels and guaranteed by our subsidiaries holding the interests in our vessels. Our loan agreements impose, and future financial obligations may impose, operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may require the consent of our lenders, or may prevent or otherwise limit our ability to, among other things:•merge into, or consolidate with, any other entity or sell, or otherwise dispose of, all or substantially all of our assets; •make or pay equity distributions; •incur additional indebtedness; •incur or make any capital expenditures; •materially amend, or terminate, any of our current charter contracts or management agreements; or•charter our vessels. Our loan agreements also require us to maintain specific financial levels and ratios, including minimum amounts of available cash, minimum ratios of current assets to current liabilities (excluding current long-term debt), minimum levels of stockholders' equity and maximum loan to value clauses. If we were to fail to maintain these levels and ratios without obtaining a waiver of covenant compliance or modification to our covenants, we would be in default of our loans agreements, which, unless waived by our lenders, could provide our lenders with the right to, require us to increase the minimum value held by us under our equity and liquidity covenants, increase our interest payments, pay down our indebtedness to a level where we are in compliance with our loan covenants, sell vessels in our fleet, reclassify our indebtedness as current liabilities and could allow our lenders to accelerate our indebtedness and foreclose their liens on our vessels, which could result in the loss of our vessels. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing, which would impair our ability to continue to conduct our business.Because of the presence of cross-default provisions in most of our and Golar Partners’ loan and lease agreements that cover both us and Golar Partners, the refusal of any one lender or lessor to grant or extend a waiver could result in the acceleration of our indebtedness under our other loan and lease agreements even if our or Golar Partners’ other lenders or lessors have waived covenant defaults under the respective agreements. A cross-default provision means that if we or Golar Partners default on one loan or lease we would then default on our other loans.Moreover, in connection with any waivers and/or amendments to our loan agreements, our lenders may impose additional operating and financial restrictions on us and/or modify the terms of our existing loan agreements. These restrictions may limit our ability to, among other things, pay dividends, make capital expenditures and/or incur additional indebtedness, including through the issuance of guarantees. In addition, our lenders may require the payment of additional fees, require prepayment of a portion of our indebtedness to them, accelerate the amortization schedule for our indebtedness and increase the interest rates they charge us on our outstanding indebtedness.Servicing our debt agreements substantially limits our funds available for other purposes.A large portion of our cash flow from operations is used to repay the principal and interest on our debt agreements. As of December 31, 2014, our net indebtedness (including loan debt, net of restricted cash and short-term deposits and net of cash and cash equivalents) was $1,115 million and our ratio of net indebtedness to total capital (comprising net indebtedness plus shareholders' equity) was 0.33.Our consolidated debt could increase substantially. We will continue to have the ability to incur additional debt. Our level of debt could have important consequences to us, including:7•Our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms;•We will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and dividends to stockholders;•We may be more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our industry or the economy generally; and•Our flexibility in obtaining additional financing, pursuing other business opportunities and responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited.We have a substantial equity investment in our former subsidiary, Golar Partners, that from December 13, 2012, is no longer consolidated with our financial results, and our investment is subject to the risks related to Golar Partners' respective business.As of December 31, 2014, we had an ownership interest of 41.4% (including our 2% general partner interest) in Golar Partners, in addition to 100% of the IDRs of Golar Partners. The aggregate carrying value of our investments in Golar Partners as of December 31, 2014 was $801.0 million, which represents our total interests in the common, subordinated and general partner units and the IDRs. We account for our interests in the subordinated units under the equity method, the common units as available-for-sale securities and the general partner units and IDRs as cost-method investments. Please see Note 6 "Deconsolidation of Golar Partners" to our Consolidated Financial Statements included here in for further detail. In January 2015, we completed our secondary offering of 7,170,000 common units, representing limited partner interests in Golar Partners, reducing our ownership interest in Golar Partners to 30%.In addition to the value of our investment, we receive cash distributions from Golar Partners, which amounted to $61.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. Furthermore, we receive management fee income from the provision of services to Golar Partners under each of the management and administrative services agreement and the fleet management agreements, which amounted to $10.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2014.Accordingly, the value of our investment and the income generated from our investment in Golar Partners is subject to a variety of risks, including the risks related to its business as disclosed in its respective public filings with the SEC. The occurrence of any such risks may negatively affect our financial condition. As of April 24, 2015, Golar Partners had a fleet of ten vessels, that we manage under the management agreements referred to above, that operate under medium to long-term charters with a concentrated number of charterers which include BG Group, Petrobras, Pertamina, Dubai Supply Authority ("DUSUP"), PT Nusantara Regas, or PTNR, Eni S.p.A, The Government of Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and Kuwait National Petroleum Company, or KNPC. Accordingly, a significant risk to Golar Partners is the loss of any of these customers, charters or vessels, or under certain operational circumstances, a decline in payments under any of the charters, which could have a material adverse effect on its business and its ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders if the vessel was not re-chartered to another customer for an extended period of time.The common units of Golar Partners are listed on the Nasdaq Global market and due to their preferential distribution and liquidation rights during the subordination period are accounted for as available-for-sale securities. As of December 31, 2014, the fair value of our investment in the common units of Golar Partners was $275.3 million, but the value of this investment was reduced following the secondary offering in January 2015 discussed above. If the price of the common units of Golar Partners declines due to other than temporary reasons, we would be required to recognize future impairment charges which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the period that the impairment charges are recognized.Our growth depends on our ability to expand relationships with existing customers and obtain new customers, for which we will face substantial competition.One of our principal objectives is to enter into additional medium or long-term, fixed-rate time charters for our LNG carriers and FSRUs. The process of obtaining new long-term time charters is highly competitive and generally involves an intensive screening process and competitive bids, and often extends for several months. LNG carrier or FSRU time charters are awarded based upon a variety of factors relating to the vessel operator, including but not limited to:•LNG shipping and FSRU experience and quality of ship operations;•shipping industry relationships and reputation for customer service and safety;•technical ability and reputation for operation of highly specialized vessels, including FSRUs;•quality and experience of seafaring crew;•the ability to finance FSRUs and LNG carriers at competitive rates, and financial stability generally;8•construction management experience, including, (i) relationships with shipyards and the ability to get suitable berths; and (ii) the ability to obtain on-time delivery of new FSRUs and LNG carriers according to customer specifications;•willingness to accept operational risks pursuant to the charter, such as allowing termination of the charter for force majeure events; and•competitiveness of the bid in terms of overall price.We expect substantial competition for providing floating storage and regasification services and marine transportation services for potential LNG projects from a number of experienced companies, including state-sponsored entities and major energy companies. Many of these competitors have significantly greater financial resources and larger and more versatile fleets than we do. We anticipate that an increasing number of marine transportation companies, including many with strong reputations and extensive resources and experience, will enter the FSRU market and LNG transportation market. This increased competition may cause greater price competition for time charters. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to expand our relationships with existing customers or obtain new customers on a profitable basis, if at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions.Our growth also depends on continued growth in demand for LNG, FSRUs and LNG carriers.Our growth strategy focuses on expansion in the floating storage and regasification sector and the LNG shipping sector. While global LNG demand has continued to rise, the rate of its growth has fluctuated for several reasons, including the global economic crisis and continued economic uncertainty, fluctuations in price of natural gas and other sources of energy, the continued increase in natural gas production from unconventional sources, including hydraulic fracturing, in regions such as North America and the highly complex and capital intensive nature of new and expended LNG projects, including liquefaction projects. Accordingly, our growth depends on continued growth in world and regional demand for LNG, FSRUs and LNG carriers, which could be negatively affected by a number of factors, including but not limited to:•price and availability of crude oil and petroleum products;•increases in interest rates and other events that may affect the availability of sufficient financing for LNG projects on commercially reasonable terms;•increases in the cost of natural gas derived from LNG relative to the cost of natural gas;•decreases in the cost of, or increases in the demand for, conventional land-based regasification systems, which could occur if providers or users of regasification services seek greater economies of scale than FSRUs can provide, or if the economic, regulatory or political challenges associated with land-based activities improve;•further development of, or decreases in the cost of, alternative technologies for vessel-based LNG regasification;•increases in the production of natural gas in areas linked by pipelines to consuming areas, the extension of existing, or the development of new, pipeline systems in markets we may serve, or the conversion of existing non-natural gas pipelines to natural gas pipelines in those markets; •negative global or regional economic or political conditions, particularly in LNG-consuming regions, which could reduce energy consumption or its growth; •decreases in the consumption of natural gas due to increases in its price relative to other energy sources or other factors making consumption of natural gas less attractive;•any significant explosion, spill or other incident involving an LNG facility or carrier;•infrastructure constraints such as delays in the construction of liquefaction facilities, the inability of project owners or operators to obtain governmental approvals to construct or operate LNG facilities, as well as community or political action group resistance to new LNG infrastructure due to concerns about the environment, safety and terrorism;•labor or political unrest or military conflicts affecting existing or proposed areas of LNG production or regasification;•decreases in the price of LNG, which might decrease the expected returns relating to investments in LNG projects; and•availability of new, alternative energy sources, including compressed natural gas. Reduced demand for LNG or LNG shipping, or any reduction or limitation in LNG production capacity, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to secure future time charters upon expiration or early termination of our current charter arrangements. Reduced demand for LNG, FSRUs or LNG carriers would have a material adverse effect on our future growth and could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. In addition, in late 2014 and early 2015, global crude oil prices fell significantly. A continued decline in oil prices could negatively affect growth in LNG production . The significant fall in oil prices over the past six months and the milder than expected Far Eastern winter have led to substantial declines in the price of LNG and a lack of pricing differential between the Eastern and Western hemispheres. Some production companies have announced delays or cancellations of certain previously announced (but 9early stage) LNG projects, which, unless offset by new projects coming on stream, could adversely affect demand for LNG carriers beyond 2020. If this were to happen and assuming Golar had not successfully chartered its current fleet on long term contracts between now and 2020, a potential sustained decline in the delivery of new LNG volumes, chartering activity and consequently charter rates could also adversely affect the market value of our ships, on which certain of the ratios and financial covenants we are required to comply with are based.Demand for LNG shipping could be significantly affected by volatile natural gas prices and the overall demand for natural gas.Natural gas prices are volatile and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including but not limited to the following: •price and availability of crude oil and petroleum products;•worldwide demand for natural gas;•the cost of exploration, development, production, transportation and distribution of natural gas;•expectations regarding future energy prices for both natural gas and other sources of energy;•the level of worldwide LNG production and exports; •government laws and regulations, including but not limited to environmental protection laws and regulations;•local and international political, economic and weather conditions; •political and military conflicts; or•the availability and cost of alternative energy sources, including alternate sources of natural gas in gas importing and consuming countries. Fluctuations in overall LNG demand growth could adversely affect our ability to secure future time charters.The LNG trade increased by 2% from 2013 to 2014. This growth was less than expected as a new project in Angola failed to sustain full operations. Continued economic uncertainty, the current low oil price environment and the continued acceleration of unconventional natural gas production have contributed to the delay or cancellation of certain other projects, which, unless offset by new projects coming on stream, could adversely affect demand for LNG charters over the next few years, while the amount of tonnage available for charter is expected to increase. These factors could have an adverse effect on our ability to secure future term charters at acceptable rates.We operate our vessels in the spot/short-term charter market for LNG vessels. Failure to find profitable employment for these vessels, or our newbuildings upon their delivery, could adversely affect our operations. We currently have nine vessels operating in the spot/short-term charter market, the market for chartering an LNG carrier for a single voyage, or for a short time period of up to two years. We entered into newbuilding contracts for the construction of ten LNG carriers and three FSRUs, twelve of which (ten LNG carriers and two FSRUs), have been delivered to date. The remaining FSRU is expected to be delivered in December 2015. We may also employ certain of our vessels through medium to long-term time charters. Spot/short-term charters expose us to the volatility in spot charter rates, which can be significant. In contrast, medium to long-term time charters generally provide reliable revenues, but they also limit the portion of our fleet available to the spot/short-term market during an upswing in the LNG industry cycle, when spot/short-term market voyages might be more profitable. The charter rates payable under time charters or in the spot market may be uncertain and volatile and will depend upon, among other things, economic conditions in the LNG market. The supply and demand balance for LNG carriers and FSRUs is also uncertain.We also cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully employ our existing vessels in the future or our newbuildings upon their delivery at rates sufficient to allow us to operate our business profitably or meet our obligations. If we are unable to find profitable employment or re-deploy an LNG carrier or FSRU, we will not receive any revenues from that vessel, but we may be required to pay expenses necessary to maintain that vessel in proper operating condition. A decline in charter or spot rates or a failure to successfully charter our vessels could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to meet our financing obligations.10If there is a delay or default by the shipyard or if the shipyard does not meet certain performance requirements, our earnings and financial condition could suffer.In 2011, we entered into contracts for the construction of thirteen newbuildings, including ten LNG carriers and three FSRUs for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $2.8 billion. As of April 24, 2015, twelve vessels (ten LNG carriers and two FSRUs) have been delivered (two of which have been sold to Golar Partners) and we have paid to the shipyards a total of approximately $2.6 billion of the aggregate purchase price since the commencement of the contracts. The remaining FSRU is due for delivery in December 2015.Our remaining newbuild, is contracted with Samsung Heavy Industries Co. Ltd., or Samsung. In the event the shipyard does not perform under the contract discussed above and we are unable to enforce certain refund guarantees with third party banks for any reason, we may lose all or part of our investment, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.In addition, the project is subject to the risk of delay or default by the shipyard caused by, among other things, unforeseen quality or engineering problems, work stoppages or other labor disturbances at the shipyard, bankruptcy of or other financial crisis involving the shipyard, weather interference, unanticipated cost increases, delays in receipt of necessary equipment, political, social or economic disturbances, inability to finance the construction of the vessel, and inability to obtain the requisite permits or approvals. In accordance with industry practice, in the event the shipyard is unable or unwilling to deliver the vessel, we may not have substantial remedies. Failure to construct or deliver the ship by the shipyard or any significant delays could increase our expenses and diminish our net income and cash flows.A shortage of qualified officers and crew could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition.LNG carriers and FSRUs require a technically skilled officer staff with specialized training. Increases in our historical vessel operating expenses have been attributable primarily to the rising costs of recruiting and retaining officers for our fleet. The pool of technically competent crew members has not grown very much during the past few years as the demand for crew members was hampered by the lack of newbuild orders during the period between 2008 to 2010. However, more recently the number of orders for newbuild LNG carriers and FSRUs has grown and as deliveries of these new vessels start to materialize, the demand for technically skilled officers and crew has been increasing, which has led to a shortfall of such personnel. If we or our third-party ship managers are unable to employ technically skilled staff and crew, we will not be able to adequately staff our vessels particularly as we take delivery of our newbuildings. A material decrease in the supply of technically skilled officers or an inability of our third-party managers to attract and retain such qualified officers could impair our ability to operate, or increase the cost of crewing our vessels, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and significantly reduce our ability to make distributions to shareholders.We are subject to certain risks with respect to our counterparties on contracts, and failure of such counterparties to meet their obligations could cause us to suffer losses or otherwise adversely affect our business.We have entered into, and may enter in the future, contracts, charter contracts, newbuilding contracts, conversion contracts with shipyards, credit facilities with banks, interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps and equity swaps. Such agreements subject us to counterparty risks. The ability of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations under a contract with us will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions and the overall financial condition of the counterparty. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under agreements with us, we could sustain significant losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.The current and future state of the global financial markets and current economic conditions may adversely impact our ability to obtain new financing or to refinance our existing debt portfolio on terms acceptable to us or could cause us to recognize losses, which would negatively impact our business.Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, volatile. Recently, operating businesses in the global economy have faced tightening credit, weakening demand for goods and services, deteriorating international liquidity conditions, and declining markets. There has been a general decline in the willingness by banks and other financial institutions to extend credit, particularly in the shipping industry, due to the historically volatile asset values of vessels. As the shipping industry is highly dependent on the availability of credit to finance and expand operations, it has been negatively affected by this decline.11Also, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets has increased as many lenders have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at all or on terms similar to current debt and reduced, and in some cases ceased, to provide funding to borrowers. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that financing will be available if needed and to the extent required, on acceptable terms. If financing is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due or we may be unable to enhance our existing business, complete additional vessel acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities as they arise.If the global economic environment declines, we may be negatively affected in the following ways:•we may not be able to employ our vessels at charter rates as favorable to us as historical rates or at all or operate our vessels profitably; and•the market value of our vessels could decrease, which may cause us to recognize losses if any of our vessels are sold or if their values are impaired. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends.Due to the lack of diversification in our lines of business, adverse developments in the LNG industry would negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay dividends.Currently, we rely primarily on the revenues generated from our LNG carriers and FSRUs and cash distributions from Golar Partners. Due to the lack of diversification in our lines of business, an adverse development in our LNG carrier and FSRU business, in the LNG industry, or in the offshore energy infrastructure industry, generally, would have a significant impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends to our shareholders.An increase in costs could materially and adversely affect our financial performance.Our vessel operating expenses and drydock capital expenditures depend on a variety of factors, including crew costs, provisions, deck and engine stores and spares, lubricating oil, insurance, maintenance and repairs and shipyard costs, many of which are beyond our control and affect the entire shipping industry. Also, while we do not bear the cost of fuel (bunkers) under our time and voyage charters, fuel is a significant, if not the largest, expense in our operations when our vessels are operating under voyage charters, are idle during periods of commercial waiting time or when positioning or repositioning before or after a time charter. If costs continue to rise, they could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel in the LNG industry, which may negatively impact the effectiveness of our management and our results of operation.Significant demands are placed on our management as a result of our growth. As we expand our operations, we must manage and monitor our operations, control costs and maintain quality and control. In addition, the provision of management services to our publicly traded affiliate, Golar Partners and the supervision of the construction of our newbuilding vessels has increased the complexity of our business and placed additional demands on our management. Our success depends, to a significant extent, upon the abilities and the efforts of our senior executives. While we believe that we have an experienced management team, the loss or unavailability of one or more of our senior executives for any extended period of time could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.We expect to be exposed to volatility in the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, and the derivative contracts we have entered into to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates could result in higher than market interest rates and charges against our income.As of December 31, 2014, we had total outstanding long-term debt of $1.4 billion, of which $1.3 billion was exposed to a floating interest rate. based on LIBOR, which has been stable recently but was volatile in prior years and which could affect the amount of interest payable on our debt. In order to manage our exposure to interest rate fluctuations, we use interest rate swaps to effectively fix a part of our floating rate debt obligations. As of December 31, 2014, we have interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $1.5 billion representing approximately 107% of our total debt. While we are currently over-hedged, this will normalize as we drawdown on our facilities as we take delivery of our newbuildings. Our hedging strategies, however, may not be effective and we may incur substantial losses if interest rates move materially differently from our expectations.12Our financial condition could be materially adversely affected to the extent we do not hedge our exposure to interest rate fluctuations under our financing arrangements, under which loans have been advanced at a floating rate and for which we have not entered into an interest rate swap or other hedging arrangement. Any hedging activities we engage in may not effectively manage our interest rate exposure or have the desired impact on our financial conditions or results of operations. See "Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk."The aging of our fleet may result in increased operating costs in the future, which could adversely affect our earnings.In general, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase with the age of the vessel. Our current fleet has a weighted average age of approximately 17.3 years. Due to improvements in engine technology, older vessels are typically less fuel-efficient and more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels. Cargo insurance rates also increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers.Governmental regulations, including environmental regulations, safety regulations, or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment, to our vessels to comply with safety or environmental laws or regulations that may be enacted in the future. These laws or regulations may also restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage or prohibit their operation in certain geographic regions. We cannot predict what alterations or modifications our vessels may be required to undergo as a result of requirements that may be promulgated in the future. As our vessels age, market conditions might not justify any required expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives.We may not be able to obtain financing to fund our growth or our future capital expenditures, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay dividends.In order to fund future FLNGV and FSRU retrofitting projects, liquefaction projects, newbuilding programs, vessel acquisitions, increased working capital levels or other capital expenditures, we may be required to use cash from operations, incur additional borrowings or raise capital through the sale of debt or additional equity securities. Use of cash from operations may reduce the amount of cash available for dividend distributions. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for any future debt or equity offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of such financing or offering, as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain funds for future capital expenditures could impact our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. Furthermore, our ability to access capital, overall economic conditions and our ability to secure charters could limit our ability to fund our growth and capital expenditures. The issuance of additional equity securities would dilute your interest in us and reduce dividends payable to you. Even if we are successful in obtaining bank financing, paying debt service would limit cash available for working capital and increasing our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends.We are exposed to U.S. Dollar and foreign currency fluctuations and devaluations that could harm our reported revenue and results of operations.Our principal currency for our operations and financing is the U.S. dollar. We generate the majority of our revenues in the U.S. dollar. Apart from U.S. dollar, we incur a portion of capital, operating and administrative expenses in multiple currencies.Due to a portion of our expenses are incurred in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, our expenses may from time to time increase relative to our revenues as a result of fluctuations in exchange rates, particularly between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro, the British pound, and the Norwegian Kroner, which could affect the amount of net income that we report in future periods. We use financial derivatives to hedge some of our currency exposure. Our use of financial derivatives involves certain risks, including the risk that losses on a hedged position could exceed the nominal amount invested in the instrument and the risk that the counterparty to the derivative transaction may be unable or unwilling to satisfy its contractual obligations, which could have an adverse effect on our results.We may be subject to litigation that, if not resolved in our favor and not sufficiently insured against, could have a material adverse effect on us. We may be, from time to time, involved in various litigation matters. These matters may include, among other things, contract disputes, personal injury claims, environmental claims or proceedings, asbestos and other toxic tort claims, employment matters, governmental claims for taxes or duties and other litigation that arises in the ordinary course of our business. Although 13we intend to defend these matters vigorously, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or other litigation matter, and the ultimate outcome of any litigation or the potential costs to resolve them may have a material adverse effect on us. Insurance may not be applicable or sufficient in all cases and/or insurers may not remain solvent, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Please read "Item 8 Financial Information-Legal Proceedings and Claims."We may have to pay tax on United States source income, which would reduce our earnings.Under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States, may be subject to a 4% U.S. federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the applicable Treasury Regulations recently promulgated thereunder.We expect that we and each of our subsidiaries will qualify for this statutory tax exemption and we will take this position for U.S. federal income tax return reporting purposes. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption and thereby become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our U.S. source income. Therefore, we can give no assurances on our tax-exempt status or that of any of our subsidiaries.If we or our subsidiaries are not entitled to exemption under Section 883 of the Code for any taxable year, we or our subsidiaries could be subject for those years to an effective 4% U.S. federal income tax on the gross shipping income we or our subsidiaries derive during the year that are attributable to the transport of cargoes to or from the United States. The imposition of this tax would have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders.United States tax authorities could treat us as a "passive foreign investment company", which could have adverse United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders.A foreign corporation will be treated as a "passive foreign investment company," or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income during the taxable year consists of certain types of "passive income" or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation's assets during such taxable year produce or are held for the production of those types of "passive income." For purposes of these tests, "passive income" includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute "passive income." U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC.Based on our current and expected future method of operation, we do not believe that we will be a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that our income from our time chartering activities does not constitute "passive income," and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets.There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our method of operation. We believe there is substantial legal authority supporting our position consisting of case law and United States Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, pronouncements concerning the characterization of income derived from time charters and voyage charters as services income for other tax purposes. However, we note that there is also authority which characterizes time charter income as rental income rather than services income for other tax purposes. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the IRS or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations.14If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our U.S. shareholders will face adverse U.S. tax consequences and certain information reporting requirements. Under the PFIC rules, unless those shareholders make an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such shareholders), such shareholders would be liable to pay U.S. federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common shares, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder's holding period of our common shares. Please see the section of this annual report entitled "Taxation" under "Item 10. Additional Information-E. Taxation" for a more comprehensive discussion of the U.S. federal income tax consequences if we were to be treated as a PFIC.Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-bribery legislation in other jurisdictions could result in fines, criminal penalties, contract terminations and an adverse effect on our business.We may operate in a number of countries throughout the world, including countries known to have a reputation for corruption. We are committed to doing business in accordance with applicable anti-corruption laws and have adopted a code of business conduct and ethics which is consistent and in full compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (or the FCPA). We are subject, however, to the risk that we, our affiliated entities or our or their respective officers, directors, employees and agents may take actions determined to be in violation of such anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA. Any such violation could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties, curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions, and might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation and ability to do business. Furthermore, detecting, investigating, and resolving actual or alleged violations is expensive and can consume significant time and attention of our senior management.Risks Related to Our IndustryThe operation of LNG carriers and FSRUs is inherently risky, and an incident resulting in significant loss or environmental consequences involving any of our vessels could harm our reputation and business.Our vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as:•marine disasters;•piracy;•environmental accidents;•bad weather;•mechanical failures;•grounding, fire, explosions and collisions;•human error; and•war and terrorism.An accident involving any of our vessels could result in any of the following:•death or injury to persons, loss of property or environmental damage;•delays in the delivery of cargo;•loss of revenues from or termination of charter contracts;•governmental fines, penalties or restrictions on conducting business;•higher insurance rates; and•damage to our reputation and customer relationships generally.Any of these circumstances or events could increase our costs or lower our revenues. Additionally, the involvement of our vessels in an oil spill or other environmental disaster may harm our reputation as a safe and reliable LNG carrier operator.If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired. The costs of vessel repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. We may have to pay repair costs that our insurance policies do not cover. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our results of operations. If one of our vessels were involved in an accident with the potential risk of environmental contamination, the resulting media coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and cash flows, weaken our financial condition and negatively affect our ability to pay dividends. Further, the total loss of any of our vessels could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable LNG Carrier and FSRU owner and operator. If we are unable to adequately maintain or safeguard our vessels, we may be unable to prevent any such damage, costs or loss which could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay dividends.15Growth of the LNG market may be limited by many factors, including infrastructure constraints and community and political group resistance to new LNG infrastructure over concerns about environmental, safety and terrorism.A complete LNG project includes production, liquefaction, regasification, storage and distribution facilities and LNG carriers. Existing LNG projects and infrastructure are limited, and new or expanded LNG projects are highly complex and capital intensive, with new projects often costing several billion dollars. Many factors could negatively affect continued development of LNG infrastructure and related alternatives, including floating storage and regasification, or disrupt the supply of LNG, including:•increases in interest rates or other events that may affect the availability of sufficient financing for LNG projects on commercially reasonable terms;•decreases in the price of LNG, which might decrease the expected returns relating to investments in LNG projects;•the inability of project owners or operators to obtain governmental approvals to construct or operate LNG facilities;•local community resistance to proposed or existing LNG facilities based on safety, environmental or security concerns;•any significant explosion, spill or similar incident involving an LNG facility, FSRU or LNG carrier; and•labor or political unrest affecting existing or proposed areas of LNG production and regasification.We expect that, as a result of the factors discussed above, some of the proposals to expand existing or develop new LNG liquefaction and regasification facilities may be abandoned or significantly delayed. If the LNG supply chain is disrupted or does not continue to grow, or if a significant LNG explosion, spill or similar incident occurs, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions.Terrorist attacks, piracy, increased hostilities or war could lead to further economic instability, increased costs and disruption of our business.LNG facilities, shipyards, vessels (including FSRUs and conventional LNG carriers), pipelines and gas fields could be targets of future terrorist attacks or piracy. Terrorist attacks, war or other events beyond our control that adversely affect the production, storage, transportation or regasification of LNG to be shipped or processed by us could entitle our customers to terminate our charters, which would harm our cash flow and our business. Concern that LNG facilities may be targeted for attack by terrorists has contributed to significant community and environmental resistance to the construction of a number of LNG facilities, primarily in North America. If a terrorist incident involving an LNG facility, FSRU or LNG carrier did occur, the incident may adversely affect construction of additional LNG facilities or FSRUs or the temporary or permanent closing of various LNG facilities or FSRUs currently in operation.In addition, continuing conflicts and recent developments in Europe, with respect to the Ukraine and Russia, in the Middle East, including Israel, Iraq, Syria, and Egypt, and in North Africa, including Libya, and the presence of the United States and other armed forces in Afghanistan may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to economic instability and uncertainty in global financial markets. As a result of the above, insurers have increased premiums and reduced or restricted coverage for losses caused by terrorist acts generally. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the past, political instability has also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions throughout the world. Any of these occurrences, or the perception that our vessels are potential terrorist targets, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and ability to pay dividends.Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels could adversely affect our business.Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as South China Sea, Arabian Sea, Red Sea, the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia, the Indian Ocean and the Gulf of Guinea. Sea piracy incidents continue to occur, particularly in the Gulf of Aden, the Indian Ocean, and increasingly in the Gulf of Guinea, with tanker vessels particularly vulnerable to such attacks. If piracy attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed being characterized as “war risk” zones by insurers or Joint War Committee “war and strikes” listed areas, premiums payable for such coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. In addition, crew and security equipment costs, including costs which may be incurred to employ onboard security armed guards, to comply with Best Management Practices for Protection against Somalia Based Piracy, or BMP4, or any updated version, could increase in such circumstances. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, detention or hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, increased costs associated with seeking to avoid such events (including increased bunker costs resulting from vessels being rerouted or travelling at increased speeds as recommended by BMP4), or 16unavailability of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and ability to pay dividends, and may result in loss of revenues, increased costs and decreased cash flows to our customers, which could impair their ability to make payments to us under our charters. An over-supply of vessel capacity may lead to a reduction in charter hire rates and profitability.The supply of vessels generally increases with deliveries of new vessels and decreases with the scrapping of older vessels, conversion of vessels to other uses, and loss of tonnage as a result of casualties. Currently, there is significant newbuilding activity with respect to virtually all sizes and classes of vessels. While we currently believe that there is demand for additional tonnage in the near-term, an over-supply of vessel capacity combined with a decline in the demand for such vessels, may result in a reduction of charter hire rates. If such a reduction continues in the future, upon the expiration or termination of our vessels' current charters, we may only be able to re-charter our vessels or our newbuilds upon delivery at reduced or unprofitable rates or we may not be able to charter our vessels at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability.Hire rates for FSRUs and LNG carriers may fluctuate substantially.Hire rates for LNG and to a lesser extent FSRU carriers may fluctuate over time as a result of changes in the supply-demand balance relating to current and future FSRU and LNG carrier capacity. This supply-demand relationship largely depends on a number of factors outside our control. The LNG market is closely connected to world natural gas prices and energy markets, which we cannot predict. A substantial or extended decline in natural gas prices could adversely affect our ability to recharter our vessels at acceptable rates or acquire and profitably operate new FSRUs or LNG carriers. Our ability from time to time to charter or re-charter any vessel at attractive rates will depend on, among other things, the prevailing economic conditions in the LNG industry. Hire rates for FSRUs and LNG carriers correlate to the price of newbuilding FSRUs and LNG carriers. If rates are lower when we are seeking a new charter, our earnings and ability to make distributions to our shareholders will suffer.Vessel values may fluctuate substantially and, if these values are lower at a time when we are attempting to dispose of vessels, we may incur a loss and, if these values are higher when we are attempting to acquire vessels, we may not be able to acquire vessels at attractive prices.Vessel values for LNG carriers can fluctuate substantially over time due to a number of different factors, including:•prevailing economic and market conditions in the natural gas and energy markets;•a substantial or extended decline in demand for LNG;•increases in the supply of vessel capacity;•the type, size and age of a vessel; and•the cost of newbuildings or retrofitting or modifying existing vessels, as a result of technological advances in vessel design or equipment, changes in applicable environmental or other regulations or standards, customer requirements or otherwise.As our vessels age, the expenses associated with maintaining and operating them are expected to increase, which could have an adverse effect on our business and operations if we do not maintain sufficient cash reserves for maintenance and replacement capital expenditures. Moreover, the cost of a replacement vessel would be significant.During the period a vessel is subject to a charter, we will not be permitted to sell it to take advantage of increases in vessel values without the charterers' agreement. If a charter terminates, we may be unable to re-deploy the affected vessels at attractive rates and, rather than continue to incur costs to maintain and finance them, we may seek to dispose of them. When vessel values are low, we may not be able to dispose of vessels at a reasonable price when we wish to sell vessels, and conversely, when vessel values are elevated, we may not be able to acquire additional vessels at attractive prices when we wish to acquire additional vessels, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flow, financial condition and ability to make distributions to shareholders. Please refer to “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects-B. Liquidity and Capital Resources-Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates-Vessel Market Values" for further information.17The LNG transportation industry is competitive and we may not be able to compete successfully, which would adversely affect our earnings.The LNG transportation industry in which we operate is competitive, especially with respect to the negotiation of long-term charters. Competition arises primarily from other LNG carrier owners, some of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. Furthermore, new competitors with greater resources could enter the market for LNG carriers and FSRUs and operate larger fleets through consolidations, acquisitions or the purchase of new vessels, and may be able to offer lower charter rates and more modern fleets. If we are not able to compete successfully, our earnings could be adversely affected. Competition may also prevent us from achieving our goal of profitably expanding into other areas of the LNG industry.Our vessels may call on ports located in countries that are subject to restrictions imposed by the U.S. or other governments, which could adversely affect our business.Although no vessels operated by us have called on ports located in countries subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government and countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism, such as Cuba, Iran, Sudan and Syria, in the future our vessels may call on ports in these countries from time to time on our charterers' instructions. None of our vessels made any port calls to Iran in 2013. The U.S. sanctions and embargo laws and regulations vary in their application, as they do not all apply to the same covered persons or proscribe the same activities, and such sanctions and embargo laws and regulations may be amended or strengthened over time. In 2010, the U.S. enacted the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions Accountability and Divestment Act, or CISADA, which expanded the scope of the Iran Sanctions Act. Among other things, CISADA expands the application of the prohibitions to companies such as ours and introduces limits on the ability of companies and persons to do business or trade with Iran when such activities relate to the investment, supply or export of refined petroleum or petroleum products. In addition, in 2012, President Obama signed Executive Order 13608 which prohibits foreign persons from violating or attempting to violate, or causing a violation of any sanctions in effect against Iran or facilitating any deceptive transactions for or on behalf of any person subject to U.S. sanctions. Any persons found to be in violation of Executive Order 13608 will be deemed a foreign sanctions evader and will be banned from all contacts with the United States, including conducting business in U.S. dollars. Also in 2012, President Obama signed into law the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, or the Iran Threat Reduction Act, which created new sanctions and strengthened existing sanctions. Among other things, the Iran Threat Reduction Act intensifies existing sanctions regarding the provision of goods, services, infrastructure or technology to Iran's petroleum or petrochemical sector. The Iran Threat Reduction Act also includes a provision requiring the President of the United States to impose five or more sanctions from Section 6(a) of the Iran Sanctions Act, as amended, on a person the President determines is a controlling beneficial owner of, or otherwise owns, operates, or controls or insures a vessel that was used to transport crude oil from Iran to another country and (1) if the person is a controlling beneficial owner of the vessel, the person had actual knowledge the vessel was so used or (2) if the person otherwise owns, operates, or controls, or insures the vessel, the person knew or should have known the vessel was so used. Such a person could be subject to a variety of sanctions, including exclusion from U.S. capital markets, exclusion from financial transactions subject to U.S. jurisdiction, and exclusion of that person's vessels from U.S. ports for up to two years.On November 24, 2013, the P5+1 (the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, France, Russia and China) entered into an interim agreement with Iran entitled the “Joint Plan of Action,” or JPOA. Under the JPOA it was agreed that, in exchange for Iran taking certain voluntary measures to ensure that its nuclear program is used only for peaceful purposes, the U.S. and EU would voluntarily suspend certain sanctions for a period of six months.On January 20, 2014, the U.S. and EU indicated that they would begin implementing the temporary relief measures provided for under the JPOA. These measures include, among other things, the suspension of certain sanctions on the Iranian petrochemicals, precious metals, and automotive industries from January 20, 2014 until July 20, 2014.Although it is our intention to comply with the provisions of the JPOA, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future as such regulations and U.S. Sanctions may be amended over time, and the U.S. retains the authority to revoke the aforementioned relief if Iran fails to meet its commitments under the JPOA.As a result of the crisis in Ukraine and the annexation of Crimea by Russia earlier in 2014, both the U.S. and EU have implemented sanctions against certain persons and entities. In addition, various restrictions on trade have been implemented which, amongst others, include a prohibition on the import into the EU of goods originating in Crimea or Sevastopol as well as restrictions on trade in certain dual-use and military items and restrictions in relation to various items of technology associated with the oil industry for use in deep water exploration and production, Arctic oil exploration and production, or shale oil projects in Russia.The U.S. has imposed sanctions against certain designated Russian entities and individuals or U.S. Russian Sanctions Targets. These sanctions block the property and all interests in property of the U.S. Russian Sanctions Targets. This effectively prohibits U.S. persons from engaging in any economic or commercial transactions with the U.S. Russian Sanctions Targets unless the same are authorized by the U.S. Treasury Department. While the prohibitions of these sanctions are not directly applicable to 18us, we have compliance measures in place to guard against transactions with U.S. Russian Sanctions Targets which may involve the United States or U.S. persons and thus implicate prohibitions.Although we believe that we have been in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations, and intend to maintain such compliance, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future, particularly as the scope of certain laws may be unclear and may be subject to changing interpretations. Any such violation could result in fines, penalties or other sanctions that could severely impact our ability to access U.S. capital markets and conduct our business, and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in us. In addition, certain institutional investors may have investment policies or restrictions that prevent them from holding securities of companies that have contracts with countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism. The determination by these investors not to invest in, or to divest from, our common stock may adversely affect the price at which our common stock trades. Moreover, our charterers may violate applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations as a result of actions that do not involve us or our vessels, and those violations could in turn negatively affect our reputation. In addition, our reputation and the market for our securities may be adversely affected if we engage in certain other activities, such as entering into charters with individuals or entities in countries subject to U.S. sanctions and embargo laws that are not controlled by the governments of those countries, or engaging in operations associated with those countries pursuant to contracts with third parties that are unrelated to those countries or entities controlled by their governments. Investor perception of the value of our common stock may be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest and governmental actions in these and surrounding countries.Our insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover losses that may occur to our property or result from our operations or our insurance costs may increase significantly.The operation of LNG carriers and FSRUs is inherently risky. Although we carry protection and indemnity insurance, all risks may not be adequately insured against, and any particular claim may not be paid. Any claims covered by insurance would be subject to deductibles, and since it is possible that a large number of claims may be brought, the aggregate amount of these deductibles could be material. Certain of our insurance coverage is maintained through mutual protection and indemnity associations and, as a member of such associations, we may be required to make additional payments over and above budgeted premiums if member claims exceed association reserves.We may be unable to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future. For example, more stringent environmental regulations have led in the past to increased costs for, and in the future may result in the lack of availability of, insurance against risks of environmental damage or pollution. A marine disaster could exceed our insurance coverage, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Any uninsured or underinsured loss could harm our business and financial condition. In addition, our insurance may be voidable by the insurers as a result of certain of our actions, such as our vessels failing to maintain certification with applicable maritime self-regulatory organizations.Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks may also make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. In addition, upon renewal or expiration of our current policies, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing coverage.We may be subject to increased premium payments, or calls, if the value of our claim records, the claim records of our fleet managers, and/or the claim records of other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive insurance coverage for tort liability (including pollution-related liability) significantly exceed projected claims. In addition, our protection and indemnity associations may not have enough resources to cover claims made against them. Our payment of these calls could result in significant expense to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends.Our vessels operating in international waters, now or in the future, will be subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment.Our vessels traveling in international waters are subject to various existing regulations published by the United Nation's International Maritime Organization, or the IMO, such as marine pollution and prevention requirements imposed by the IMO International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, or MARPOL Convention. In addition, our LNG vessels may become subject to the International Convention on Liability and Compensation for Damage in Connection with the Carriage of Hazardous and Noxious Substances by Sea, or HNS, adopted in 1996 and subsequently amended by the April 2010 Protocol. The HNS Convention introduces strict liability for the shipowner and covers pollution damage as well as the risks of fire and explosion, including loss of life or personal injury and damage to property. HNS includes, among other things, liquefied natural 19gas. However, the HNS Convention lacked the ratifications required to come into force. In April 2010, a consensus at the Diplomatic Conference convened by the IMO adopted the 2010 Protocol. Under the 2010 Protocol, if damage is caused by bulk HNS, compensation would first be sought from the shipowner. The 2010 Protocol has not yet entered into effect. It will enter into force eighteen months after the date on which certain consent and administrative requirements are satisfied. While a majority of the necessary number of states has indicated their consent to be bound by the 2010 Protocol, the required minimum has not been met.In addition, national laws generally provide for a LNG carrier or offshore LNG facility owner or operator to bear strict liability for pollution, subject to a right to limit liability under applicable national or international regimes for limitation of liability. However, some jurisdictions are not a party to an international regime limiting maritime pollution liability, and, therefore, a vessel owner's or operator's rights to limit liability for maritime pollution in such jurisdictions may be uncertain.Please see “Item 4. Information on the Company-B. Business Overview-Environmental and Other Regulations- International Maritime Regulations of LNG Vessels" and "-Other Regulations" below for a more detailed discussion on these topics.Our vessels operating in U.S. waters now or, in the future, will be subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment.Our vessels operating in U.S. waters now or, in the future, will be subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment, including the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, or CERCLA, the Clean Water Act, and the Clean Air Act. In some cases, these laws and regulations require us to obtain governmental permits and authorizations before we may conduct certain activities. These environmental laws and regulations may impose substantial penalties for noncompliance and substantial liabilities for pollution. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties. As with the industry generally, our operations will entail risks in these areas, and compliance with these laws and regulations, which may be subject to frequent revisions and reinterpretation, may increase our overall cost of business.Please read "Item 4 Information on the Company-B. Business Overview-Environmental and Other Regulations- International Maritime Regulations of LNG Vessels" and "-Other Regulations" below for a more detailed discussion on these topics.Our operations are subject to substantial environmental and other regulations, which may significantly increase our expenses.Our operations are affected by extensive and changing international, national and local environmental protection laws, regulations, treaties and conventions in force in international waters, the jurisdictional waters of the countries in which our vessels operate, as well as the countries of our vessels' registration, including those governing oil spills, discharges to air and water, and the handling and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. These regulations include, but are not limited to, the IMO International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships of 1973, as from time to time amended and generally referred to as MARPOL, including designation of Emission Control Areas, or ECAs, thereunder, the IMO International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969, as from time to time amended and generally referred to as CLC, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage, or Bunker Convention, the IMO International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974, as from time to time amended and generally referred to as SOLAS, the International Safety Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and for Pollution Prevention, or ISM Code, the IMO International Convention on Load Lines of 1966, as from time to time amended, the International Convention for the Control and Management of Ships' Ballast Water and Sediments in February 2004, or the BWM Convention, the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, requirements of the U.S. Coast Guard, or USCG, and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, the U.S. Clean Water Act, the U.S. Clean Air Act, the U.S. Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, the U.S. Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002, or the MTSA, and European Union, or EU, regulations.Many of these requirements are designed to reduce the risk of oil spills and other pollution. In addition, we believe that the heightened environmental, quality and security concerns of insurance underwriters, regulators and charterers will lead to additional regulatory requirements, including enhanced risk assessment and security requirements and greater inspection and safety requirements on vessels. We expect to incur substantial expenses in complying with these laws and regulation, including expenses for vessel modifications and changes in operating procedures.These requirements can affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels, ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions, lead to decreased availability of insurance coverage for environmental matters or result in the denial of access to 20certain jurisdictional waters or ports, or detention in, certain ports. Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, we could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations, in the event that there is a release of hazardous substances from our vessels or otherwise in connection with our operations. We could also become subject to personal injury or property damage claims relating to the release of or exposure to hazardous materials associated with our operations. In addition, failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations, including, in certain instances, seizure or detention of our vessels.Please read "Item 4. Information on the Company-B. Business Overview-Environmental and Other Regulations- International Maritime Regulations of LNG Vessels" and "-Other Regulation" below for a more detailed discussion on these topics.Further changes to existing environmental legislation that is applicable to international and national maritime trade may have an adverse effect on our business.We believe that the heightened environmental, quality and security concerns of insurance underwriters, regulators and charterers will generally lead to additional regulatory requirements, including enhanced risk assessment and security requirements and greater inspection and safety requirements on all LNG carriers in the marine transportation markets and offshore LNG terminals. For example in September 2014, an IMO sub-committee agreed to a draft of the International Code of Safety for Ships using Gases or Low flashpoint Fuels, or the IGF Code, which is designed to minimize the risks involved with ships using low flashpoint fuels- including LNG, and that the IGF Code be made mandatory under SOLAS through proposed amendments. In November 2014 the IMO’s Maritime Safety Committee approved the amendments and they are expected to be adopted at the upcoming session in June 2015. These requirements are likely to add incremental costs to our operations and the failure to comply with these requirements may affect the ability of our vessels to obtain and, possibly, collect on insurance or to obtain the required certificates for entry into the different ports where we operate.Further legislation, or amendments to existing legislation, applicable to international and national maritime trade are expected over the coming years in areas such as ship recycling, sewage systems, emission control (including emissions of greenhouse gases), ballast treatment and handling, etc. The United States has recently enacted legislation and regulations that require more stringent controls of air and water emissions from ocean-going vessels. Such legislation or regulations may require additional capital expenditures or operating expenses (such as increased costs for low-sulfur fuel) in order for us to maintain our vessels' compliance with international and/or national regulations.Climate change and greenhouse gas restrictions may adversely impact our operations and markets.Due to concern over the risk of climate change, a number of countries and the IMO have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emission from vessel emissions. These regulatory measures may include, among others, adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. Additionally, a treaty may be adopted in the future that includes restrictions on shipping emissions. Compliance with changes in laws and regulations relating to climate change could increase our costs of operating and maintaining our vessels and could require us to make significant financial expenditures that we cannot predict with certainty at this time.Adverse effects upon the oil and gas industry relating to climate change, including growing public concern about the environmental impact of climate change, may also have an effect on demand for our services. For example, increased regulation of greenhouse gases or other concerns relating to climate change may reduce the demand for oil and gas in the future or create greater incentives for use of alternative energy sources. Any long-term material adverse effect on the oil and gas industry could have a significant financial and operational adverse impact on our business that we cannot predict with certainty at this time.Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow.Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to our vessels, shippers of cargo or other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against one or more of our vessels for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. In a few jurisdictions, such as South Africa, claimants could try to assert "sister ship" liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our vessels. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of money to have the arrest lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the "sister ship" theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any "associated" vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner under some of our present charters. If the vessel is arrested or detained for as few as 14 days as a result of a claim against us, we may be in default of our charter and the charterer may terminate the charter.21Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency.A government could requisition for title or seize our vessels. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes the owner. Also, a government could requisition our vessels for hire. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes the charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels may negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and ability to pay dividends.Compliance with safety and other vessel requirements imposed by classification societies may be very costly and may adversely affect our business.The hull and machinery of every large, oceangoing commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention. The Golar Arctic is certified by Lloyds Register, the Golar Frost and the Golar Bear are certified by the American Bureau of Shipping and all our other vessels are each certified by Det Norske Veritas. The Lloyds Register, American Bureau of Shipping and Det Norske Veritas are all members of the International Association of Classification Societies. All of our vessels have been awarded ISM certification and are currently "in class."As part of the certification process, a vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys and special surveys. In lieu of a special survey, a vessel's machinery may be on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Each of the vessels in our existing fleet is on a planned maintenance system approval, and as such the classification society attends onboard once every year to verify that the maintenance of the equipment onboard is done correctly. Each of the vessels in our existing fleet is required to be qualified within its respective classification society for drydocking once every five years subject to an intermediate underwater survey done using an approved diving company in the presence of a surveyor from the classification society. If any vessel does not maintain its class or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey or special survey, the vessel will be unable to trade between ports and will be unemployable. We would lose revenue while the vessel was off-hire and incur costs of compliance. This would negatively impact our revenues and reduce our cash available for distributions to our shareholders.The smuggling of drugs or other contraband onto our vessels may lead to governmental claims against us.We expect that our vessels will call in ports where smugglers may attempt to hide drugs and other contraband on vessels, with or without the knowledge of crew members. To the extent our vessels are found with contraband, whether inside or attached to the hull of our vessels and whether with or without the knowledge of any of our crew, we may face governmental or other regulatory claims that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and ability to pay dividends.Risks Related to our Common SharesIf we fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, our stock price could decline substantially.In some quarters, our results may be below analysts’ or investors’ expectations. If this occurs, the price of our common stock could decline.Important factors that could cause our revenue and operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter include, but are not limited to:•prevailing economic and market conditions in the natural gas and energy markets;•negative global or regional economic or political conditions, particularly in LNG-consuming regions, which could reduce energy consumption or its growth;•declines in demand for LNG;•increases in the supply of vessel capacity operating in the spot/short-term market;•marine disasters; war, piracy or terrorism; environmental accidents; or inclement weather conditions;•mechanical failures or accidents involving any of our vessels; and•drydock scheduling and capital expenditures. 22Most of these factors are not within our control, and the occurrence of one or more of them may cause our operating results to vary widely.Our common share price may be highly volatile and future sales of our common shares could cause the market price of our common shares to decline.Historically, the market prices of securities of shipping companies have experienced fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating results of those companies. Our common shares have traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, or Nasdaq, since December 12, 2002 under the symbol "GLNG." We cannot assure you that an active and liquid public market for our common shares will continue. The market price for our common shares has historically fluctuated over a wide range. In 2014, the closing market price of our common shares on the Nasdaq has ranged from a low of $31.44 on December 16, 2014 to a high of $72.50 per share on September 19, 2014. As of April 24, 2015, the closing market price of our common shares on Nasdaq was $35.24. The market price of our common shares may continue to fluctuate significantly in response to many factors such as actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly or annual results and those of other public companies in our industry, the suspension of our dividend payments, mergers and strategic alliances in the shipping industry, market conditions in the LNG shipping industry, developments in our GoFLNG investments, shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts, announcements concerning us or our competitors, the general state of the securities market, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The market for common shares in this industry may be equally volatile. Therefore, we cannot assure our shareholders that they will be able to sell any of our common shares that they may have purchased at a price greater than or equal to the original purchase price.Additionally, sales of a substantial number of our common shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, may depress the market price for our common shares. These sales could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity securities in the future.We may issue additional common shares or other equity securities without our shareholders’ approval, which would dilute their ownership interests and may depress the market price of our common shares.We may issue additional common shares or other equity securities in the future in connection with, among other things, vessel conversions, future vessel acquisitions, repayment of outstanding indebtedness or our equity incentive plan, in each case without shareholder approval in a number of circumstances.Our issuance of additional common shares or other equity securities would have the following effects:•our existing shareholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease;•the amount of cash available for dividends payable on our common shares may decrease;•the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding common share may be diminished; and•the market price of our common shares may decline. We are a holding company, and our ability to pay dividends will be limited by the value of investments we currently hold and by the distribution of funds from our subsidiaries and affiliates.We are a holding company whose assets mainly comprise equity interests in our subsidiaries and other quoted and non-quoted companies and our interest in our affiliate, Golar Partners. As a result, should we decide to pay dividends, we would be dependent on the performance of our operating subsidiaries and other investments. If we were not able to receive sufficient funds from our subsidiaries and other investments, including from the sale of our investment interests, we would not be able to pay dividends unless we obtain funds from other sources. We may not be able to obtain the necessary funds from other sources on terms acceptable to us.23 Because we are a Bermuda corporation, our shareholders may have less recourse against us or our directors than shareholders of a U.S. company have against the directors of that U.S. Company.Because we are a Bermuda company, the rights of holders of our common shares will be governed by Bermuda law and our memorandum of association and bye-laws. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law may differ from the rights of shareholders in other jurisdictions. Among these differences is a Bermuda law provision that permits a company to exempt a director from liability for any negligence, default, or breach of a fiduciary duty except for liability resulting directly from that director's fraud or dishonesty. Our bye-laws provide that no director or officer shall be liable to us or our shareholders unless the director's or officer's liability results from that person's fraud or dishonesty. Our bye-laws also require us to indemnify a director or officer against any losses incurred by that director or officer resulting from their negligence or breach of duty, except where such losses are the result of fraud or dishonesty. Accordingly, we carry directors' and officers' insurance to protect against such a risk. In addition, under Bermuda law, the directors of a Bermuda company owe their duties to that company and not to the shareholders. Bermuda law does not, generally, permit shareholders of a Bermuda company to bring an action for a wrongdoing against the company, but rather the company itself is generally the proper plaintiff in an action against the directors for a breach of their fiduciary duties. These provisions of Bermuda law and our bye-laws, as well as other provisions not discussed here, may differ from the law of jurisdictions with which investors may be more familiar and may substantially limit or prohibit shareholders ability to bring suit against our directors.Because our offices and most of our assets are outside the United States, our shareholders may not be able to bring suit against us, or enforce a judgment obtained against us in the United States.We, and most of our subsidiaries, are or will be incorporated in jurisdictions outside the U.S. and substantially all of our assets and those of our subsidiaries are and will be located outside the U.S. In addition, most of our directors and officers are or will be non-residents of the U.S., and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these non-residents are or will be located outside the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for U.S. investors to serve process within the U.S. upon us, our subsidiaries, or our directors and officers, or to enforce a judgment against us for civil liabilities in U.S. courts. In addition, you should not assume that courts in the countries in which we or our subsidiaries are incorporated or where our or our subsidiaries' assets are located would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our subsidiaries based upon the civil liability provisions of applicable U.S. federal and state securities laws, or would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us or our subsidiaries based on those laws.We may become subject to taxation in Bermuda which would negatively affect our results.At the present time, there is no Bermuda income or profits tax, withholding tax, capital gains tax, capital transfer tax, estate duty or inheritance tax payable by us or by our shareholders in respect of our shares. We have obtained an assurance from the Minister of Finance of Bermuda under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966 that, in the event that any legislation is enacted in Bermuda imposing any tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, such tax shall not, until March 31, 2035, be applicable to us or to any of our operations or to our shares, debentures or other obligations except insofar as such tax applies to persons ordinarily resident in Bermuda or is payable by us in respect of real property owned or leased by us in Bermuda. We cannot assure you that a future Minister would honor that assurance, which is not legally binding, or that after such date we would not be subject to any such tax. If we were to become subject to taxation in Bermuda, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 