D. Risk Factors Some of the following risks relate principally to our business or to the industry in which we operate. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and ownership of our shares. Any of these risks, or any additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, could significantly and adversely affect our business, our financial condition, our operating results and the trading price of our common shares. Risks Related to our Business We generate a substantial majority of our revenue under seven long-term agreements with two customers, and the unanticipated loss of one or more of these agreements or either of these customers would likely interrupt our related cash flow. We receive a substantial majority of our revenue from seven long-term charters with two large and established customers. In the year ended December 31, 2005, BG Group plc, or BG, accounted for 51.2% and Pertamina (the state owned oil and gas company of Indonesia) accounted for 37.2% of our total operating revenues, respectively. Pertamina chartered two of our vessels during 2005 and BG chartered five of our vessels during 2005. All of these charters have fixed terms, but might nevertheless be lost in the event of unanticipated developments such as a customer's breach. Our customers may terminate their charters with us if, among other events, the relevant vessel is lost or damaged beyond repair. The unanticipated loss of any of these charters or either customer would likely interrupt our related cash flow because we cannot be sure that we would be able to enter into attractive replacement charters at short notice. A persistent and continued interruption of our cash flow could, in turn, substantially and adversely affect our financial condition. Completion of our newbuilding program and investment in new projects is dependent on our obtaining additional financing. We have installment payments to make relating to the construction cost of one newbuilding still under construction, which is due to be delivered in 2007 and in respect of a contract to convert an existing vessel into a floating storage and regasification unit ('FSRU'). As of June 29, 2006, we believe we have sufficient facilities to meet our anticipated funding needs until June 2007. We currently do not have sufficient facilities to meet the final delivery instalment, in respect of our unfinanced newbuilding hull number 2244, due in June 2007 and additional facilities of $108 million will be required to meet this commitment. We have successfully financed five newbuilding without long-term charter coverage within the last three years. It is standard in the shipping industry to finance between 50% and 80% of the purchase price of vessels, or construction cost in the case of newbuildings, through bank financing. In the case of vessels that have charter coverage, the debt finance percentage may increase significantly. If we were to obtain 50% debt financing to cover the installments due on our remaining unfinanced newbuilding, this would equate to additional finance of approximately $80 million of the $108 million required. For further information concerning our future financing plans, see Item 5 "Operating and Financial Review and Prospects, Liquidity and Capital Resources - Newbuilding Contracts and Capital Commitments". While we believe we will be able to arrange financing for the full amount of newbuilding payments due and have sufficient facilities to meet commitments totalling $50 million under our FSRU project contract, to the extent we do not timely obtain necessary financing, the completion of our newbuilding and FSRU project could be delayed or we could suffer financial loss, including the loss of all or a portion of the progress payments we had made to the shipyard and in relation to the newbuilding contract any deficiency if the shipyard is not able to recover its costs from the sale of the newbuilding. We are considering various alternatives for the employment of our newbuildings, failure to find profitable employment for them could adversely affect our operations. We currently have two vessels; the Golar Frost (our newbuilding delivered in April 2004) and the Golar Winter (our newbuilding delivered in June 2004), on short-term charters and one newbuilding under construction not committed to medium or long-term charter contracts. We plan to find medium or long-term charters for these vessels or alternatively utilise them within some of the LNG infrastructure projects we are developing. In the case of the Golar Frost, if our "Livorno" project is successful it is anticipated that this vessel will be used as a floating LNG terminal. If we cannot obtain profitable employment for these vessels, our earnings will suffer. If we are unable to secure long-term charter coverage for our remaining unfinanced newbuilding hull 2244, we may be unable to obtain the financing necessary to complete that newbuilding. In addition, whether or not we employ our newbuildings profitably, we must service the debt that we incur to finance them as well as pay for operating costs. Our charters with Shell have variable rates and certain termination rights. Three of our vessels are time chartered to Shell, Gracilis (renamed, was Golar Viking), Grandis and Granosa under five year charter agreements. However, the rates we can earn from these charters are variable relative to the market and Shell, as well as us, have certain termination rights. In the event that Shell does not employ the vessels for their own use, they will market the vessels for use by third parties. If Shell cannot find employment for these ships there could be periods where the vessels incur commercial waiting time and do not earn revenues. If these vessels are not employed profitably or the charters are terminated our cashflows could be seriously impacted. If we do not accomplish our strategic objective of profitably entering into other areas of the LNG industry, we may incur losses and our strategy to continue growing and increasing operating margins may not be realized. A part of our strategy reflects our assessment that we should be able to expand profitably into areas of the LNG industry other than the carriage of LNG. We have not previously been involved in other LNG industry businesses and our expansion into these areas may not be profitable and we may incur losses including losses in respect of expenses incurred in relation to project development. Our plan to consider opportunities to integrate vertically into upstream and downstream LNG activities depends materially on our ability to identify attractive partners and projects and obtain project financing at a reasonable cost. In addition to project development costs, we have contracted to convert one of our vessels, which may be the Golar Spirit as its charter ends at the end of 2006, into a floating storage and regasification unit ("FSRU"). The total cost of this investment is approximately $50 million. As yet we have no employment for this FSRU. If we cannot find employment our investment may be worthless and our cash flows may be significantly impacted. Additionally, it is possible that the use of the vessel as an FSRU may require us to terminate the Golar Spirit's lease, whilst we would be able to retain use of the vessel the loss of this financing would add to the cost of the investment. Our loan and lease agreements impose restrictions that may adversely affect our earnings or may prevent us from taking actions that could be in our shareholders' best interest. Covenants in our loan and lease agreements limit our ability to: o merge into or consolidate with any other entity or sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of their assets; o make or pay equity distributions; o incur additional indebtedness; o incur or make any capital expenditure; or o materially amend, or terminate, any of our current charter contracts or management agreements. If the ownership interest in us of John Fredriksen, our chairman, and his affiliated entities falls below 25% of our share capital, a default of some of our loan agreements and lease agreements to which we are a party would occur. Similarly, if we were to be in any other form of default which we could not remedy, such as payment default, our lessors, having legal title to our leased vessels, or our lenders, who have mortgage over some of our vessels, could be entitled to sell our vessels in order to repay our debt and or lease liabilities. Covenants in our loan and lease agreements may effectively prevent us from paying dividends should our Board of directors wish to do so and may require us to obtain permission from our lenders and lessors to engage in some other corporate actions. Our lenders' and lessors' interests may be different from those of our shareholders and we cannot guarantee investors that we will be able to obtain our lenders' and lessors' permission when needed. This may adversely affect our earnings and prevent us from taking actions that could be in our shareholders' best interests. If we do not maintain the financial ratios contained in our loan and lease agreements or we are in any other form of default such as payment default, we could face acceleration of the due date of our debt and the loss of our vessels. Our loan and lease agreements require us to maintain specific financial levels and ratios, including minimum amounts of available cash, ratios of current assets to current liabilities (excluding current long-term debt), ratios of net debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization and the level of stockholders' equity. Although we currently comply with these requirements, if we were to fall below these levels we would be in default of our loans and lease agreements and the due date of our debt could be accelerated and our lease agreements terminated, which could result in the loss of our vessels. Provisions in our loan and lease agreements may limit our flexibility. In addition to the general restrictions, our loan agreements and UK vessel lease agreements place certain restrictions on our ability to charter our vessels without the consent of the relevant lender or lessor. In addition the lease agreements in respect of six of our vessels limit our ability to enter into time charters other than with BG and Pertamina, who do not have credit ratings of at least BBB+, unless we post additional security over and above the letters of credit already provided as security for our lease obligations. This will impact us when these vessels finish their long-term charters. These restrictions could limit our operational flexibility and negatively impact our financial position or cash flows in the future. Eight of our vessels are financed by UK tax leases. In the event of any adverse tax rate changes or rulings or in the event of a lease termination we may be required to make additional payments to the UK vessel lessor, which could adversely affect our results and financial position. In the event of any adverse tax rate changes or rulings, or in the event that we terminate one or more of our leases, we would be required to return all or a portion of, or in certain circumstances significantly more than, the upfront cash benefits that we have received, together with fees that were financed in connection with our lease financing transactions, post additional security or make additional payments to our lessors. The upfront benefits we have received equates to the cash inflow we received in connection with the six leases we entered into during 2003 (in total approximately (pound)41 million British pounds). Servicing our debt and lease agreements substantially limits our funds available for other purposes. A large part of our cash flow from operations must go to paying principal and interest on our debt and lease agreements. As of December 31, 2005, our net total indebtedness (including capital lease obligations) was $822 million and our ratio of net indebtedness to total capital was 0.64. As of March 31, 2006 our net indebtedness was approximately $898 million and in June 2006 we drew down additional debt of $120 million on delivery of our latest newbuilding, Granosa. We may also incur additional debt of at least as much as $108 million to fund completion of our remaining unfinanced newbuilding. We may also incur additional indebtedness to fund our possible expansion into other areas of the LNG industry, for example in respect of our FSRU project. Debt payments reduce our funds available for expansion into other parts of the LNG industry, working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes. In addition, our business is capital intensive and requires significant capital outlays that result in high fixed costs. We cannot assure investors that our existing and future contracts will provide revenues adequate to cover all of our fixed and variable costs. It may be difficult to serve process on or enforce a United States judgment against us, our officers, our directors or some of our experts or to initiate an action based on United States federal or state securities laws outside of the United States. We are a Bermuda corporation and our executive offices are located outside of the United States. Our officers and directors reside outside of the United States. In addition, substantially all of our assets and the assets of our officers, directors and some of our experts are located outside of the United States. As a result, you may have difficulty serving legal process within the United States upon us or any of these persons or enforcing a judgment obtained in a U.S. court to the extent assets located in the United States are insufficient to satisfy the judgment. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts outside of the United States would enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us or our officers and directors or entertain original actions predicated on the civil liability provisions of the United States federal or state securities laws. As a result, it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments obtained in United States courts against our directors, officers and non-U.S. experts or to bring an action against our directors, officers or non-U.S. experts outside of the United States that is based on United States federal or state securities law. We may not be exempt from U.S. taxation on our U.S. source shipping income, which would reduce our net income and cash flow by the amount of the applicable tax. We currently believe we are exempt from tax under Section 883 of the U.S Internal Revenue Code ("Code") in effect throughout 2005. If we, for whatever reason, were not eligible for exemption from tax under Code Section 883, we would be subject to a four percent tax on our U.S. source shipping income, which is comprised of 50 percent of our shipping income attributable to the transport of cargoes to or from United States ports. In the absence of such exemption, our potential tax liability for the calendar years 2003, 2004 and 2005 would have been $571,000, $880,000 and $627,000 respectively. We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel in the LNG industry, which may negatively impact the effectiveness of our management and our results of operation. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and the efforts of our senior executives, and particularly John Fredriksen, our Chairman and Tor Olav Troim, for the management of our activities and strategic guidance. While we believe that we have an experienced management team, the loss or unavailability of one or more of our senior executives, and particularly Mr. Fredriksen or Mr. Troim, for any extended period of time could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If construction of the LNG carrier we have ordered and which is yet to be delivered were to be substantially delayed or left incomplete, or there was substantial delay in completion of the conversion of one of our vessels to a FSRU our earnings and financial condition could suffer. We have a binding contract for the construction of one new LNG carrier, or newbuilding, by an established Korean shipyard, which have yet to be delivered. While the shipbuilding contract contains a liquidated damages clause requiring the shipyard to refund a portion of the purchase price if delivery of a vessel is delayed more than 30 days, any such delay could adversely affect our earnings and our financial condition. In addition, if the shipyard was unable to deliver the vessel on time, we might be unable to perform related short or long-term charters and our earnings and financial condition could suffer. Furthermore, we are actively looking for employment for our vessel which is being converted into a FSRU. Any substantial delay in the conversion of our vessel into a FSRU could mean we will not be able to satisfy potential employment and our cashflow and earnings could suffer. If we are treated as a passive foreign investment company, a U.S. investor in our common shares would be subject to disadvantageous rules under U.S. tax laws. If we are treated as a passive foreign investment company in any year, U.S. holders of our shares would be subject to unfavorable U.S. federal income tax treatment. We do not believe that we were a passive foreign investment company in 2005 or will be in any future year. However, passive foreign investment company classification is a factual determination made annually and thus may be subject to change if the portion of our income derived from other passive sources, including the spot trading of LNG for our own account, were to develop or to increase substantially. Moreover, the Internal Revenue Services may disagree with our position that time charters do not give rise to passive income for purposes of the passive foreign investment company rules. Accordingly, there is a possibility that we could be treated as a passive foreign investment company for 2005 or for any future year. The passive foreign investment company rules are discussed in more detail in Item 10 of this annual report under the heading "Additional Information; Taxation - U.S. Taxation of U.S. Holders". Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, and other acts of violence or war may affect the financial markets and our business, results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001 and the United States' continuing response to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks, continues to cause uncertainty in the world financial markets. The conflict in Iraq may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets, including the energy markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. Future terrorist attacks, may also negatively affect our operations and financial condition and directly impact our vessels or our customers. Future terrorist attacks could result in increased volatility of the financial markets in the United States and globally and could result in an economic recession in the United States or the world. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenue, and costs. An increase in costs could materially and adversely affect our financial performance. Our vessel operating expenses depend on a variety of factors including crew costs, provisions, deck and engine stores, lubricating oil, insurance, maintenance and repairs, many of which are beyond our control and affect the entire shipping industry. These may increase vessel operating expenses further. If costs continue to rise, that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. An increase in interest rates could materially and adversely affect our financial performance At December 31, 2005 we had a total long-term debt and net capital lease obligations outstanding of $908 million. As at March 31, 2006 we had a total long-term debt and net capital lease obligations of $1,003 million of which currently $373 million is floating rate debt. We also use interest rate swaps to manage interest rate risk. As at March 31, 2006 our interest rate swap arrangements effectively fix the interest rate exposure on $630 million of floating rate bank debt and capital lease obligation. If interest rates rise significantly, that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Increases and decreases in interest rates will affect the cost of floating rate debt but may also affect the mark to market valuation of interest rate swaps which will also affect our results. Additionally, to the extent that our lease obligations are secured by restricted cash deposits, our exposure to interest rate movements are hedged to a large extent. However, movements in interest rates may require us to place more cash into our restricted deposits and this could also materially and adversely affect our results of operations. An adverse foreign exchange movement between US dollars against other currencies could materially affect our financial performance. We may be exposed to foreign currency exchange fluctuations as a result of expenses paid by certain subsidiaries in currencies other than U.S. dollars, such as British pounds (GBP), in relation to our administrative office in the UK, operating expenses incurred in a variety of foreign currencies and Singapore dollars, among others, in respect of our FSRU conversion contract. If the US dollar weakens significantly this could increase our expenses and therefore could have a negative effect to our financial results. Conversely, seven of our vessels are financed by UK tax leases, which are denominated in British pounds. The majority of our British pound capital lease obligations are hedged by British pound cash deposits securing the lease obligations or by currency swap. However, this is not a perfect hedge and a significant strengthening of the US dollar could give rise to an increase in our financial expenses and could materially affect our financial results (see Item 11- Foreign currency risk). We have entered into a total return swap transaction in respect of our shares and a decrease in our share price could adversely affect our financial results. In October 2005, we entered into a 12 month equity swap agreement with the Bank of Nova Scotia under which they may acquire up to 3.2 million of our shares. The agreement is structured so that upon termination Scotia will either pay to us or receive from us an amount equal to the movement in our share price times the number of shares acquired. In the event that our share price falls materially below the level at which Scotia make their purchases during the course of the swap, the swap's mark to market valuation will increase our financial expenses and therefore could affect our results. During 2003 and 2004 we acquired 21% of the share capital of Korea Line Corporation, a Korean shipping company listed on the Korean Stock Exchange, at a cost of $34 million. The value of these shares could decline and we may lose all or a portion of our investment. The value of our investment in Korea Line Corporation ("Korea Line") could be impacted by, amongst other things, the future results of Korea Line as well as general Korean stock market movement and other events over which we have no control. Risks Related to the LNG Shipping Industry Risks involved with operating ocean-going vessels could affect our business and reputation, which could adversely affect our revenues. The operation of an ocean-going vessel carries inherent risks. These risks include the possibility of: o Marine disaster; o Piracy; o Environmental accidents; and o Business interruptions caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, political action in various countries, labor strikes, or adverse weather conditions. Any of these circumstances or events could increase our costs or lower our revenues. The involvement of our vessels in an oil spill or other environmental disaster may harm our reputation as a safe and reliable LNG carrier operator. Over time charter rates for LNG carriers may fluctuate substantially. If rates happen to be lower at a time when we are seeking a charter for a vessel, our earnings will suffer. Charter rates for LNG carriers fluctuate over time as a result of changes in the supply-demand balance relating to current and future LNG carrier capacity. This supply-demand relationship largely depends on a number of factors outside our control. The LNG market is closely connected to world natural gas prices and energy markets, which we cannot predict. A substantial or extended decline in natural gas prices could adversely affect our charter business as well as our business opportunities. Our ability from time to time to charter or re-charter any vessel at attractive rates will depend on, among other things, the prevailing economic conditions in the LNG industry. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. If we are in default on some kinds of obligations, such as those to our crew members, suppliers of goods and services to our vessels or shippers of cargo, these parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against one or more of our vessels. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. In a few jurisdictions, claimants could try to assert "sister ship" liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our vessels. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay to have the arrest lifted. Under some of our present charters, if the vessel is arrested or detained for as little as 14 days as a result of a claim against us, we may be in default of our charter and the charterer may terminate the charter. The LNG transportation industry is competitive and if we do not continue to compete successfully, our earnings could be adversely affected. Although we currently generate a majority of our revenue under long-term contracts, the LNG transportation industry is competitive, especially with respect to the negotiation of long-term charters. Furthermore, new competitors have entered the market and further new competitors with greater resources could enter the industry and operate larger fleets through consolidations, acquisitions, or the purchase of new vessels, and may be able to offer lower charter rates and more modern fleets. If we do not continue to compete successfully, our earnings could be adversely affected. Competition may also prevent us from achieving our goal of profitably expanding into other areas of the LNG industry. Shipping companies generally must conduct operations in many parts of the world, and accordingly their vessels are exposed to international risks, which could reduce revenue or increase expenses. Shipping companies, including those that own LNG carriers, conduct global operations. Changing economic, regulatory and political conditions in some countries, including political and military conflicts, have from time to time resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways, piracy, terrorism and other efforts to disrupt shipping. The terrorist attacks against targets in the United States on September 11, 2001, the military response by the United States and the conflict in Iraq may increase the likelihood of acts of terrorism worldwide. Acts of terrorism, regional hostilities or other political instability could affect LNG trade patterns and reduce our revenue or increase our expenses. Further, we could be forced to incur additional and unexpected costs in order to comply with changes in the laws or regulations of the nations in which our vessels operate. These additional costs could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenue, and costs. Our insurance coverage may not suffice in the case of an accident or incident. The operation of any ocean-going vessel carries an inherent risk of catastrophic marine disaster and property loss caused by adverse weather conditions, mechanical failures, human error, hostilities and other circumstances or events. The transportation of LNG is subject to the risk of LNG leakage and business interruptions due to political circumstances in foreign countries, hostilities and labor strikes. The occurrence of one or more of these events may result in lost revenues and increased costs for us. We carry insurance to protect against the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of our business and environmental damage and pollution insurance. However, we cannot assure investors that we have adequately insured ourselves against all risks, that any particular claim will be paid out of such insurance or that we will be able to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates or at all in the future. More stringent environmental regulations that are currently being considered or that may be implemented in the future may result in increased costs for insurance against the risks of environmental damage or pollution. Our insurance policies contain deductibles for which we will be responsible. They also contain limitations and exclusions that, although we believe them to be standard in the shipping industry, may increase our costs or lower our profits. Moreover, if the mutual insurance protection and indemnity association that provides our tort insurance coverage were to suffer large unanticipated claims related to the vessel owners, including us, that it covers, we could face additional insurance costs. If any of our LNG carriers discharged fuel oil into the environment, we might incur significant liability that would increase our expenses. As with all vessels using fuel oil for their engines, international environmental conventions, laws and regulations, including United States' federal laws, apply to our LNG carriers. If any of the vessels that we own or operate were to discharge fuel oil into the environment, we could face claims under these conventions, laws and regulations. We must also carry evidence of financial responsibility for our vessels under these regulations. United States law also permits individual states to impose their own liability regimes with regard to oil pollution incidents occurring within their boundaries, and a number of states have enacted legislation providing for unlimited liability for oil spills. Any future changes to the laws and regulations governing LNG carrier vessels could increase our expenses to remain in compliance. The laws of the nations where our vessels operate as well as international treaties and conventions regulate the production, storage, and transportation of LNG. While we believe that we comply with current regulations of the International Maritime Organization, or IMO, any future non-compliance could subject us to increased liability, lead to decreases in available insurance coverage for affected vessels and result in the denial of access to, or detention in, some ports. Furthermore, in order to continue complying in the future with United States federal and state laws and regulations as then in force, or with then current regulations adopted by the IMO, and with any other future regulations, we may be forced to incur additional costs relating to such matters as LNG carrier construction, maintenance and inspection requirements, development of contingency plans for potential leakages and insurance coverage. Risks Related to our Common Shares Our Chairman may have the ability to effectively control the outcome of significant corporate actions. John Fredriksen, our chairman, and his affiliated entities beneficially own 46.75% of our outstanding common shares. As a result, Mr. Fredriksen and his affiliated entities have the potential ability to effectively control the outcome of matters on which our shareholders are entitled to vote, including the election of all directors and other significant corporate actions. Because we are a Bermuda corporation, you may have less recourse against us or our directors than shareholders of a U.S. company have against the directors of that U.S. Company. Because we are a Bermuda company the rights of holders of our common shares will be governed by Bermuda law and our memorandum of association and bye-laws. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law may differ from the rights of shareholders in other jurisdictions. Among these differences is a Bermuda law provision that permits a company to exempt a director from liability for any negligence, default, or breach of a fiduciary duty except for liability resulting directly from that director's fraud or dishonesty. Our bye-laws provide that no director or officer shall be liable to us or our shareholders unless the director's or officer's liability results from that person's fraud or dishonesty. Our bye-laws also require us to indemnify a director or officer against any losses incurred by that director or officer resulting from their negligence or breach of duty except where such losses are the result of fraud or dishonesty. In addition, under Bermuda law the directors of a Bermuda company owe their duties to that company, not to the shareholders. Bermuda law does not generally permit shareholders of a Bermuda company to bring an action for a wrongdoing against the company, but rather the company itself is generally the proper plaintiff in an action against the directors for a breach of their fiduciary duties. These provisions of Bermuda law and our bye-laws, as well as other provisions not discussed here, may differ from the law of jurisdictions with which investors may be more familiar and may substantially limit or prohibit shareholders ability to bring suit against our directors. Investor confidence and the market price of our common stock may be adversely impacted if we are unable to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We will become subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which will require us to include in our annual report on Form 20-F our management's report on, and assessment of the effectiveness of, our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest to and report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. These requirements will first apply to our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, we will not be in compliance with all of the requirements imposed by Section 404. Any failure to comply with Section 404 could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could harm our business and could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. We believe the total cost of our initial compliance and the future ongoing costs of complying with these requirements may be substantial. 