Item 1A. Risk Factors. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. This discussion highlights some of the risks which may affect future operating results. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider. Our operating results and financial condition have varied in the past and may vary significantly in the future depending on a number of factors. We cannot be certain that we will successfully address these risks. If we are unable to address these risks, our business may not grow, our stock price may suffer and/or we may be unable to stay in business. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. Except for the historical information in this Annual Report, the matters contained in this report include forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this report and presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Such factors, among others, may have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. You should consider carefully the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. 13 Table of Contents Risks relating to our business Our revenue is highly dependent on a small number of clients and the loss of, or material reduction in, revenue from any one of our major clients could significantly harm our results of operations and financial condition. We have historically earned, and believe that over the next few years we will continue to earn, a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of clients. For instance, we generated approximately 54%, 54% and 49% of our revenue in our fiscal years ended March 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, from our top five clients during those periods. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, BT, Metavante Corporation and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. accounted for 19%, 13% and 10% of our total revenue, respectively. In addition, during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008, 95% and 96% of our revenue, respectively, came from clients to whom we had been providing services for at least one year. The loss of, or material reduction in revenue from, any one of our major clients could materially reduce our total revenue or delay our recognition of revenue, harm our reputation in the industry and/or reduce our ability to accurately predict cash flow. The loss of or material reduction in revenue from any one of our major clients could also adversely affect our gross profit and utilization as we seek to redeploy resources previously dedicated to that client. Generally, our clients retain us on a non-exclusive, engagement-by-engagement basis, rather than under exclusive long-term contracts and may terminate or reduce our engagements without termination related penalties. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that revenue from our major clients will not be significantly reduced in the future, including from factors unrelated to our performance or work product such as consolidation by or among our clients or the acquisition of a client. For instance, Metavante Corporation, one of our largest clients, recently announced that it has agreed to be acquired by Fidelity National Information Services, Inc., or FIS. We can make no assurance that, if the transaction closes, FIS will continue to purchase our services, or if continued, at the same or comparable levels as in previous years. Further, the loss of, or material reduction in revenue from, any one of our major clients has required, and could in the future require, us to initiate involuntary attrition. This could have a material adverse effect on our attrition rate and make it more difficult for us to attract and retain IT professionals in the future. We may not be able to maintain our client relationships and our clients may not renew their agreements with us, in which case, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. For instance, we and BT have amended our commercial agreement from time to time to reflect agreed upon changes to terms and conditions, some of which changes may have reduced the economic benefit to us of the agreement. There can be no assurance that the agreement will not be terminated or further amended prior to the end of its term, or that the depreciation of the U.K. pound sterling against the U.S. dollar will not reduce the aggregate size of the minimum commitment which is set forth in the agreement, when translated into U.S. dollars. In addition, this client concentration may subject us to perceived or actual leverage that our clients may have, given their relative size and importance to us. If our clients seek to negotiate their agreements on terms less favorable to us and we accept such unfavorable terms, such unfavorable terms may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, unless and until we diversify and expand our client base, our future success will significantly depend upon the timing and volume of business from our largest clients and the financial and operational success of these clients. If we were to lose one of our major clients or have a major client cancel substantial projects or otherwise significantly reduce its volume of business with us, our revenue and profitability would be materially reduced and our business would be seriously harmed. We depend on clients primarily located in the United States and the United Kingdom, as well as clients concentrated in specific industries, such as BFSI, and are therefore subject to risks relating to developments affecting these clients and industries that may cause them to reduce or postpone their IT spending. For our fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, we derived substantially all of our revenue from clients located in the United States and the United Kingdom, as well as clients concentrated in certain industries. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, we generated 72% of our revenue from clients in the United States 14 Table of Contents and 26% of our revenue from clients in the United Kingdom. In addition, in our fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, we derived substantially all of our revenue from three industries: BFSI, communications and technology, and media and information. During our fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, we earned approximately 44% of our revenue from BFSI clients and our revenue from this industry vertical grew by approximately 22% from the prior fiscal year. Any significant decrease in the growth of the BFSI industries, significant consolidation in these industries or decrease in growth or consolidation in other industry verticals on which we focus, could materially reduce the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenue and profitability. In particular, the BFSI industries have recently experienced substantial losses relating to market conditions and economic downturn which have also resulted in the consolidation of several large companies in BFSI. If economic conditions continue to weaken or slow, particularly in the United States, the United Kingdom or any of the geographies or industries in which we focus, our clients may significantly reduce or postpone their IT spending. Reductions in IT budgets, increased consolidation or increased competition in these geographic locations or industries could result in an erosion of our client base and a reduction in our target market. Any reductions in the IT spending of companies in any one of these industries may reduce the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenue and profitability. A significant or prolonged economic downturn in the IT services industry, or industries in which we focus, may result in our clients reducing or postponing spending on the services we offer. Our revenue is dependent on our entering into large contracts for our services with a limited number of clients each year. As we are not the exclusive IT service provider for our clients, the volume of work that we perform for any specific client is likely to vary from year to year. There are a number of factors, other than our performance, that could affect the size, frequency and renewal rates of our client contracts. For instance, if economic conditions continue to weaken or deteriorate in the IT services industry or in any industry in which we focus, our clients may reduce or postpone their IT spending significantly which may, in turn, lower the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenue and profitability. As a way of dealing with a challenging economic environment, clients may change their outsourcing strategy by performing more work in-house or replacing their existing software with packaged software supported by the licensor. The loss of, or any significant decline in business from, one or more of our major clients likely would lead to a significant decline in our revenue and operating margins, particularly if we are unable to make corresponding reductions in our expenses in the event of any such loss or decline. Moreover, a significant change in the liquidity or financial position of any of these clients could have a material adverse effect on the collectability of our accounts receivable, liquidity and future operating results. Our quarterly financial position, revenue, operating results and profitability are challenging to predict and may vary from quarter to quarter, which could cause our share price to decline significantly. Our quarterly revenue, operating results and profitability have varied in the past and are likely to vary significantly from quarter to quarter in the future. The factors that are likely to cause these variations include: •unanticipated contract or project terminations; or reductions in scope or size of IT engagements •the continuing financial stability and growth prospects of our clients •general economic conditions •the number, timing, scope and contractual terms of IT projects in which we are engaged •delays in project commencement or staffing delays due to immigration issues or assignment of appropriately skilled or experienced personnel •the accuracy of estimates of resources, time and fees required to complete fixed-price projects and costs incurred in the performance of each project 15 Table of Contents •changes in pricing in response to client demand and competitive pressures •the mix of onsite and offshore staffing •the mix of leadership and senior technical resources to junior engineering resources staffed on each project •unexpected changes in the utilization rate of our IT professionals •seasonal trends, primarily our hiring cycle and the budget and work cycles of our clients •the ratio of fixed-price contracts to time-and-materials contracts in process •employee wage levels and increases in compensation costs, including timing of promotions and annual pay increases, particularly in India and Sri Lanka •our ability to have the client reimburse us for travel and living expenses, especially the airfare and related expenses of our Indian and Sri Lankan offshore personnel traveling and working onsite in the United States or the United Kingdom •one-time, non-recurring projects As a result, our revenue and our operating results for a particular period are challenging to predict and may decline in comparison to corresponding prior periods regardless of the strength of our business. Our future revenue is also challenging to predict because we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from fees for services generated from short-term contracts that may be terminated or delayed by our clients without penalty. In addition, a high percentage of our operating expenses, particularly related to personnel and facilities, are relatively fixed in advance of any particular quarter and are based, in part, on our expectations as to future revenue. If we are unable to predict the timing or amounts of future revenue accurately, we may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall and fail to meet our forecasts. Unexpected revenue shortfalls may also decrease our gross margins and could cause significant changes in our operating results from quarter to quarter. As a result, and in addition to the factors listed above, any of the following factors could have a significant and adverse impact on our operating results, could result in a shortfall of revenue and could result in losses to us: •a client's decision not to pursue a new project or proceed to succeeding stages of a current project •the completion during a quarter of several major client projects could require us to pay underutilized team members in subsequent periods •adverse business decisions of our clients regarding the use of our services •our inability to transition team members quickly from completed projects to new engagements •our inability to manage costs, including personnel, infrastructure, facility and support services costs •exchange rate fluctuations Due to the foregoing factors, it is possible that in some future periods our revenue and operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, the trading price of our common stock could fall substantially either suddenly or over time and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. The international nature of our business exposes us to several risks, such as significant currency fluctuations and unexpected changes in the regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions. We have operations primarily in India, Sri Lanka and the United Kingdom and we serve clients across North America, Europe, the Middle East and Asia. For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, revenue generated outside of the United States accounted for 28%, 31% and 26% of total revenue, respectively. Our corporate structure also spans multiple jurisdictions, with Virtusa Corporation incorporated in Delaware and its operating subsidiaries organized in India, Sri Lanka, the United 16 Table of Contents Kingdom and the Netherlands. As a result, our international revenue and operations are exposed to risks typically associated with conducting business internationally, many of which are beyond our control. These risks include: •significant currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which we conduct transactions, including most significantly, the U.K. pound sterling (in which our revenue is principally denominated) and the Indian and Sri Lankan rupees (in which a significant portion of our costs are denominated) •potentially adverse tax consequences, such as challenges to our transfer pricing arrangements, resulting in additional taxes owed by us or double taxation, challenges to our tax holidays by authorities in the countries in which we operate, potential tariffs and other trade barriers •difficulties in staffing, managing and supporting operations in multiple countries •potential fluctuation or decline in foreign economies •unexpected changes in regulatory requirements •legal uncertainty owing to the overlap of different legal regimes and problems in asserting contractual or other rights across international borders, including compliance with local laws of which we may be unaware •government currency control and restrictions on repatriation of earnings •the burden and expense of complying with the laws and regulations of various jurisdictions •domestic and international economic or political changes, hostilities, terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war •earthquakes, tsunamis and other natural disasters in regions where we currently operate or may operate in the future Negative developments in any of these areas in one or more countries could result in a reduction in revenue or demand for our services, the cancellation or delay of client contracts, business interruption, threats to our intellectual property, difficulty in collecting receivables and a higher cost of doing business, including higher taxes, any of which could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Currency exchange rate fluctuations may negatively affect our operating results. The exchange rates among the Indian and Sri Lankan rupees and the U.S. dollar and the U.K. pound sterling, as well as the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the U.K. pound sterling, have changed substantially in recent periods and may continue to fluctuate substantially in the future. We expect that a majority of our revenue will continue to be generated in the U.S. dollar and U.K. pound sterling for the foreseeable future. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, the U.S. dollar has strengthened materially against the U.K. pound sterling which has had, and may continue to have, a materially negative impact on our revenue generated in the U.K. pound sterling, as well as our operating income and net income. Any continued appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the U.K. pound sterling is likely to have a negative impact on our revenue, operating income and net income. For the foreseeable future, we also expect a significant portion of our expenses, including personnel costs, as well as capital and operating expenditures, will continue to be denominated in Indian and Sri Lankan rupees. Accordingly, any material appreciation of the Indian rupee or the Sri Lankan rupee against the U.S. dollar or U.K. pound sterling, could have a material adverse effect on our cost of services, gross margin and net income, which may in turn have a negative impact on our business, operating results and financial condition and results of operations. Although we have adopted an eight quarter cash flow hedging program to minimize the effect of the Indian rupee movement on our financial condition, these hedges may not be effective or may cause us to forego benefits, especially given the volatility of these currencies. In addition, to the extent that these 17 Table of Contents hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting, we may have to recognize gains or losses on the aggregate amount of hedges placed earlier than expected. Furthermore, we are exposed to foreign currency volatility related to the Canadian dollar, the euro, and Sri Lankan rupee which are not currently hedged. Any significant change as compared to the U.S. dollar could have a negative impact on our revenue, operating profit, and net income. Finally, as we continue to leverage our global delivery model, more of our expenses will be incurred in currencies other than those in which we bill for the related services. An increase in the value of these currencies, such as the Indian rupee or Sri Lankan rupee, against the U.S. dollar could increase costs for delivery of services at off-shore sites by increasing labor and other costs that are denominated in local currency. The IT services market is highly competitive and our competitors may have advantages that may allow them to compete more effectively than we do to secure client contracts and attract skilled IT professionals. The IT services market in which we operate includes a large number of participants and is highly competitive. Our primary competitors include offshore IT outsourcing firms and consulting and systems integration firms. We also occasionally compete with in-house IT departments, smaller vertically-focused IT service providers and local IT service providers based in the geographic areas where we compete. We expect additional competition from offshore IT outsourcing firms in emerging locations such as Eastern Europe, Latin America and China, as well as offshore IT service providers with facilities in less expensive geographies within India. The IT services industry in which we compete is experiencing rapid changes in its competitive landscape. Some of the large consulting firms and offshore IT service providers with which we compete have significant resources and financial capabilities combined with a greater number of IT professionals. Many of our competitors are significantly larger and some have gained access to public and private capital or have merged or consolidated with better capitalized partners, which events have created and may in the future create, larger and better capitalized competitors. These competitors may have superior abilities to compete for market share and for our existing and prospective clients. Our competitors may be better able to use significant economic incentives, such as lower billing rates or non-billable resources, to secure contracts with our existing and prospective clients. These competitors may also be better able to compete for and retain skilled professionals by offering them more attractive compensation or other incentives. These factors may allow these competitors to have advantages over us to meet client demands in an engagement for large numbers and varied types of resources with specific experience or skill-sets that we may not have readily available in the short- or long-term. We cannot assure you that we can maintain or enhance our competitive position against current and future competitors. Our failure to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Adverse conditions in the global economy and disruption of financial markets could negatively impact our clients and therefore our results of operations. As widely reported, financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have been experiencing extreme disruption in recent periods, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. While we do not currently require access to credit markets to finance our operations, these economic developments affect our clients in a number of ways. The current tightening of credit in financial markets adversely affects the ability of our clients to obtain financing for their operations and could result in decreased global IT spending which, in turn, could result in delays, reductions in, or cancellation of engagements for our services. Regional and global economic weakness and uncertainty have also resulted in some companies reassessing their spending for technology and IT related projects and services. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the United States and other countries. Our revenue and 18 Table of Contents profitability depend on the overall demand for IT services from our clients, including discretionary IT spending. As a result of the worldwide economic slowdown, it is extremely difficult for us to forecast future revenue growth based on historical information and trends. Portions of our expenses are fixed and other expenses are tied to expected levels of utilization. To the extent that we do not achieve anticipated level of revenue growth, our gross profit and net income could be adversely affected until such expenses are reduced to an appropriate level. If we cannot attract and retain highly-skilled IT professionals, our ability to obtain, manage and staff new projects and expand existing projects may result in loss of revenue and an inability to expand our business. Our ability to execute and expand existing projects and obtain new clients depends largely on our ability to hire, train and retain highly-skilled IT professionals, particularly project managers, IT engineers and other senior technical personnel. If we cannot hire and retain such additional qualified personnel, our ability to obtain, manage and staff new projects and to expand, manage and staff existing projects, may be impaired. We may then lose revenue and our ability to expand our business may be harmed. For example, in our fiscal year 2009, our voluntary attrition rate was 22.9%. There is intense worldwide competition for IT professionals with the skills necessary to perform the services we offer. We and the industry in which we operate generally experience high employee attrition and, we cannot assure you that we will be able to hire or retain the number and quality of technical personnel necessary to satisfy our current and future client needs. We also may not be able to hire and retain enough skilled and experienced IT professionals to replace those who leave. Additionally, if we have to replace personnel who have left our company, we will incur increased costs not only in hiring replacements but also in training such replacements until they can become productive and billable to our clients. In addition, we may not be able to redeploy and retrain our IT professionals in anticipation of continuing changes in technology, evolving standards and changing client preferences. Our inability to attract and retain IT professionals could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We are investing substantial cash in new facilities and our profitability could be reduced if our business does not grow proportionately. We have spent $13.7 million through March 31, 2009 and currently plan to spend approximately $9.0 million over the next two fiscal years ending March 31, 2011, in connection with the construction and build-out of a facility on our campus in Hyderabad, India. We also intend to make increased investments in our existing global delivery centers in Chennai, India and Colombo, Sri Lanka. We may face cost overruns and project delays in connection with these facilities or other facilities we may construct or seek to lease in the future. Such delays may also cause us to incur additional leasing costs to extend the terms of existing facility leases or to enter into new short-term leases if we cannot move into the new facilities in a timely manner. Such investment may also significantly increase our fixed costs, including an increase in depreciation expense. If we are unable to expand our business and revenue proportionately, our profitability will be reduced. We may lose revenue if our clients terminate, reduce, or delay their contracts with us. Our clients typically retain us on a non-exclusive, engagement-by-engagement basis, rather than under exclusive long-term contracts. Many of our contracts for services have terms of less than 12 months and permit our clients to terminate or reduce our engagements on prior written notice of 90 days or less for convenience, and without termination-related penalties. Further, many large client projects typically involve multiple independently defined stages, and clients may choose not to retain us for additional stages of a project or cancel or delay their start dates. These terminations, reductions, cancellations or delays could result from factors unrelated to our work product or the progress of the project, including: •client financial difficulties or general or industry specific economic downturns •a change in a client's strategic priorities, resulting in a reduced level of IT spending 19 Table of Contents •a client's demand for price reductions •a change in a client's outsourcing strategy that shifts work to in-house IT departments or to our competitors •consolidation by or among clients or an acquisition of a client •replacement by our client of existing software to packaged software supported by licensors If our contracts were terminated early, materially delayed or reduced in size or scope, our business and operating results could be materially harmed and the value of our common stock could be impaired. Unexpected terminations, reductions, cancellation or delays in our client engagements could also result in increased operating expenses as we transition our team members to other engagements. We may not be able to continue to maintain or increase the profitability, and growth rates of previous fiscal years We may not succeed in maintaining our profitability and could incur losses in future periods. If we experience declines in demand or declines in pricing for our services, or if wages in India or Sri Lanka increase at a faster rate than in the United States and the United Kingdom, we will be faced with continued growing costs for our IT professionals, including wage increases. We also expect to continue to make investments in infrastructure, facilities, sales and marketing and other resources as we expand our operations, thus incurring additional costs. If our revenue does not increase to offset these increases in costs or operating expenses, our operating results would be negatively affected. In fact, in future quarters we may not have any revenue growth and our revenue and net income could decline. You should not consider our historic revenue and net income growth rates as indicative of future growth rates. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or increase our profitability in the future. Our inability to manage to a desired onsite-to-offshore service delivery mix may negatively affect our gross margins and costs and our ability to offer competitive pricing. We may not succeed in maintaining or increasing our profitability and could incur losses in future periods if we are not able to manage to a desired onsite-to-offshore service delivery mix. To the extent that our engagements involve an increasing number of consulting, production support, software package implementation or other services typically requiring a higher percentage of onsite resources, we may not be able to manage to our desired service delivery mix. Additionally, other factors like client constraint or preferences or our inability to manage engagements effectively with limited resources onsite may result in a higher percentage of onsite resources than our desired service delivery mix. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to manage to our desired onsite-to-offshore service delivery mix. If we are unable to manage to our targeted service delivery mix, our gross margins may decline and our profitability may be reduced. Additionally, our costs will increase and we may not be able to offer competitive pricing to our clients. Our profitability is dependent on our billing and utilization rates, which may be negatively affected by various factors. Our profit margin is largely a function of the rates we are able to charge for our services and the utilization rate of our IT professionals. The rates we are able to charge for our services are affected by a number of factors, including: •our clients' perception of our ability to add value through our services •the introduction of new services or products by us or our competitors •the size and/or duration of the engagement •the pricing policies of our competitors •general economic conditions 20 Table of Contents A number of factors affect our utilization rate, including: •our ability to transition team members quickly from completed or terminated projects to new engagements •our ability to maintain continuity of existing resources on existing projects •our ability to obtain visas or applicable work permits for offshore personnel to commence projects at a client site for new or existing engagements •the amount of time spent by our team members on non-billable training activities •our ability to maintain resources who are appropriately skilled for specific projects •our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain an appropriate number of team members •our ability to manage team member attrition •seasonal trends, primarily our hiring cycle, holidays and vacations •the number of campus hires If we are not able to maintain the rates we charge for our services or maintain an appropriate utilization rate for our IT professionals, our revenue will decline, our costs will increase and we will not be able to sustain our profit margin, any of which will have a material adverse effect on our profitability. We may face damage to our professional reputation if our services do not meet our clients' expectations. Many of our projects involve technology applications or systems that are critical to the operations of our clients' businesses and handle very large volumes of transactions. If we fail to perform our services correctly, we may be unable to deliver applications or systems to our clients with the promised functionality or within the promised time frame, or to satisfy the required service levels for support and maintenance. If a client is not satisfied with our services or products, including those of subcontractors we employ, our business may suffer. Moreover, if we fail to meet our contractual obligations, our clients may terminate their contracts and we could face legal liabilities and increased costs, including warranty claims against us. Any failure in a client's project could result in a claim for substantial damages, our inability to recognize all or some of the revenue for the client project, non-payment of outstanding invoices, loss of future business with such client and increased costs due to non-billable time of our resources dedicated to address any performance or client satisfaction issues, regardless of our responsibility for such failure. Restrictions on immigration may affect our ability to compete for and provide services to clients in the United States, the United Kingdom, or other countries, which could result in lost revenue and delays in client engagements and otherwise adversely affect our ability to meet our growth and revenue projections. The vast majority of our team members are Indian and Sri Lankan nationals. The ability of our IT professionals to work in the United States, the United Kingdom and other countries depends on our ability to obtain the necessary visas and entry permits. In recent years, the United States has increased the level of scrutiny in granting H-1B, L-1 and ordinary business visas. The H-1B visa classification enables U.S. employers to hire qualified foreign workers in positions that require an education at least equal to a four-year bachelor degree in the United States in specialty occupations such as IT systems engineering and systems analysis. The H-1B visa usually permits an individual to work and live in the United States for a period of up to six years. Under certain circumstances, H-1B visa extensions after the six-year period may be available. In addition, there are strict labor regulations associated with the H-1B visa classification. Larger users of the H-1B visa program are often subject to investigations by the Wage and Hour Division of the United States Department of Labor. A finding by the United States Department of Labor of willful or substantial failure by us to comply with existing regulations on the H-1B classification may result in back-pay liability, substantial fines, and/or a ban on future use of the H-1B program and other immigration 21 Table of Contents benefits. We are users of the H-1B visa classification with respect to some of our key offshore workers who have relocated onsite to perform services for our clients. We also regularly transfer employees from India and Sri Lanka to the United States to work on projects and at client sites using the L-1 visa classification. The L-1 visa allows companies abroad to transfer certain managers, executives and employees with specialized company knowledge to related United States companies such as a parent, subsidiary, affiliate, joint venture, or branch office. We have an approved "Blanket L Program," under which the corporate relationships of our transferring and receiving entities have been pre-approved by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, or CIS, thus enabling individual L-1 visa applications to be presented directly to a visa-issuing United States consular post abroad rather than undergoing the pre-approval process through CIS in the United States. In recent years, both the United States consular posts that review initial L-1 applications and CIS, which adjudicates petitions for initial grants and extensions of L-1 status, have become increasingly restrictive with respect to this category. As a result, the rate of refusals of initial L-1 petitions and of extensions has increased. In addition, even where L-1 visas are ultimately granted and issued, security measures undertaken by United States consular posts around the world have delayed visa issuances. Our inability to bring qualified technical personnel into the United States to staff on-site customer locations would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In response to terrorist attacks and global unrest, U.S. and U.K. immigration authorities, as well as other countries, have not only increased the level of scrutiny in granting visas, but have also introduced new security procedures, which include extensive background checks, personal interviews and the use of biometrics, as conditions to granting visas and work permits. A number of European countries are considering changes in immigration policies as well. The inability of key project personnel to obtain necessary visas or work permits could delay or prevent our fulfillment of client projects, which could hamper our growth and cause our revenue to decline. These restrictions and additional procedures may delay, or even prevent the issuance of a visa or work permit to our IT professionals and affect our ability to staff projects in a timely manner. Any delays in staffing a project can result in project postponement, delays or cancellation, which could result in lost revenue and decreased profitability and have a material adverse effect on our business, revenue, profitability and utilization rates. Immigration laws in countries in which we seek to obtain visas or work permits may require us to meet certain other legal requirements as conditions to obtaining or maintaining entry visas. These immigration laws are subject to legislative change and varying standards of application and enforcement due to political forces, economic conditions or other events, including terrorist attacks. For instance, there are certain restrictions on transferring employees to work in the United Kingdom, where we have experienced growth. The United Kingdom requires that all employees who are not nationals of European Union countries (plus nationals of Bulgaria and Romania) to obtain work permission before obtaining a visa/entry clearance to travel to the United Kingdom. New European nationals from countries such as Hungary, Poland, Lithuania, Slovakia, and the Czech Republic do not have a work permit requirement but need to obtain a worker registration within 30 days of arrival. On November 27, 2008 the United Kingdom changed its immigration practices and introduced a points-based system under which certain certificates of sponsorship are issued by licensed employer sponsors, provided the employees they seek to employ in the United Kingdom, can demonstrate that the employee can accumulate 50 points based on attributes, which include academic qualifications, intended salary and other factors plus 10 points for English language (not necessary where the employee is an intra company transferee) and 10 points for maintenance. Where the employee has not worked for a Virtusa group company outside the United Kingdom for at least 6 months, we will need to carry out a resident labor market test to confirm that the intended role cannot be filled by an European Economic Area national. While we are an A-rated sponsor and have been able to obtain certificates of sponsorship to satisfy our demand for transfers to the United Kingdom, we can make no assurance that we can continue to do so. 22 Table of Contents Further, we cannot predict the political or economic events that could affect immigration laws or any restrictive impact those events could have on obtaining or monitoring entry visas for our personnel. Our reliance on work visas and work permits for a significant number of our IT professionals makes us particularly vulnerable to such changes and variations, particularly in the United States and Europe, because these immigration and legislative changes affect our ability to staff projects with IT professionals who are not citizens of the country where the onsite work is to be performed. We may not be able to obtain a sufficient number of visas for our IT professionals or may encounter delays or additional costs in obtaining or maintaining such visas. To the extent we experience delays due to such immigration restrictions, we may encounter client dissatisfaction, project and staffing delays in new and existing engagements, project cancellations, higher project costs and loss of revenue, resulting in decreases in profits and a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Proposed changes in U.S. immigration law, if approved into law, may substantially restrict or eliminate our ability to obtain visas to use offshore resources onsite, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, revenue, profitability and utilization rates. Recently, due to the economic downturn in the U.S. economy and globally, and significant job losses in the United States and other factors, legislators in the United States have discussed comprehensive immigration reform which they are targeting for passage late in 2009. While the comprehensive immigration reform legislation focuses primarily on the millions of illegal immigrants in the United States, there is speculation that it may include some content regarding H-1(B) and L-1 visas as described in the recently proposed legislation. The potential risks and impact to our business if some or all of the proposed immigration legislation relating to use of H-1 (B) and L-1 visas is approved include: •Reduced ability to bring in Level 1 foreign workers on L-1 or H-1(B) visas •Increased scrutiny and requests for proof of eligibility on the use of L-1 and H-1(B) visas, including a requirement to pay prevailing wages for L-1 visa holders from the first day of transfer •Elimination of a company's ability to pay the living expenses of an L-1 visa holder on a tax free basis •Increased oversight by the Department of Labor (DOL) over issuance, use and administration of L-1 visas, just as the Department of Labor currently oversees H-1(B) visas In addition new legislation may restrict companies with more than 50% of the U.S. based work force comprised of employees with an L-1 or H-1(B) visa from filing additional visa petitions, including visa petitions for H-1(B) or L-1 visas. Finally, the new legislation being discussed may require companies seeking H-1(B) and L-1 visas to undertake a good faith recruitment process to prove that there is no displacement of U.S. workers. If some or all of the legislation discussed above were passed into law, we may not be able to apply for, or obtain necessary visas or work permits for key offshore personnel or other offshore resources needed for onsite assignments. Even if we are able to apply for, or obtain, such visas, we could incur substantial delays and costs in processing. Any inability to obtain, or extended delays in obtaining, these visas could materially delay or prevent our commencement or fulfillment of client projects, which could hamper our growth and cause our revenue to decline. In addition, we may have to hire or use local onsite resources rather using existing offshore resources to staff onsite engagements. Even if we use our offshore resources, we may have to put offshore resources on U.S. payroll at U.S prevailing wage levels and full benefits, rather than the existing practice of being able to provide a per diem reimbursement to the offshore resource on a tax free basis to cover living expenses while onsite. Our costs of revenue could then substantially increase and our gross profit and our gross margins then could be materially and adversely affected. Finally, if the legislation requires additional "good faith" recruiting processes to occur locally before applying for H-1(B) visas, our costs of hiring could increase, as well as our ability to staff appropriately skilled resources on client projects could be restricted or substantially delayed. Any such 23 Table of Contents delays or inability to staff needed resources on client engagements may cause client dissatisfaction, project and staffing delays in new and existing engagements, project cancellations, higher project costs and loss of revenue, resulting in decreases in profits and a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Potential future acquisitions, strategic investments, partnerships or alliances could be difficult to identify and integrate, divert the attention of key management personnel, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our financial results. We may acquire or make strategic investments in complementary businesses, technologies or services or enter into strategic partnerships or alliances with third parties to enhance our business. If we do identify suitable candidates, we may not be able to complete transactions on terms commercially acceptable to us, if at all. These types of transactions involve numerous risks, including: •difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, accounting and personnel •difficulties in supporting and transitioning clients of our acquired companies or strategic partners •diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations •risks of entering new markets •potential loss of key team members •inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset transaction costs We may finance future transactions through debt financing, the issuance of our equity securities, existing cash, cash equivalents or investments or a combination of the foregoing. Acquisitions financed with the issuance of our equity securities could be dilutive, which could affect the market price of our stock. Acquisitions financed with debt could require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to principal and interest payments and could subject us to restrictive covenants. Acquisitions financed with our own cash could deplete the cash and working capital available to adequately fund our operations. Acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our financial results. It is possible that we may not identify suitable acquisition, strategic investment or partnership or alliance candidates. Our inability to identify suitable acquisition targets, strategic investments, partners or alliances, or our inability to complete such transactions, may negatively affect our competitiveness and growth prospects. Moreover, if we fail to properly evaluate acquisitions, alliances or investments, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such transaction and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. We may be required to spend substantial time and expense before we can recognize revenue, if any, from a client contract. The period between our initial contact with a potential client and the execution of a client contract for our services is lengthy, and can extend over one or more fiscal quarters. To sell our services successfully and obtain an executed client contract, we generally have to educate our potential clients about the use and benefits of our services, which can require significant time, expense and capital without the ability to realize revenue, if any. If our sales cycle unexpectedly lengthens for one or more large projects, it would negatively affect the timing of our revenue, and hinder our revenue growth. Furthermore, a delay in our ability to obtain a signed agreement or other persuasive evidence of an arrangement or to complete certain contract requirements in a particular quarter, could reduce our revenue in that quarter. These delays or failures can cause our gross margin and profitability to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Overall, any significant failure to generate revenue or delays in recognizing revenue after incurring costs related to our sales or services process could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents We may not be able to recognize revenue in the period in which our services are performed, which may cause our margins to fluctuate. Our services are performed under both time-and-material and fixed-price arrangements. All revenue is recognized pursuant to applicable accounting standards. These standards require us to recognize revenue once evidence of an arrangement has been obtained, services are delivered, fees are fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. If we perform our services prior to the time when we are able to recognize the associated revenue, our margins may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Additionally, an increasing portion of our revenue is obtained from fixed price arrangements with our clients. Payment of our fees on fixed-price contracts is based on our ability to provide deliverables on certain dates or meet certain defined milestones. Our failure to produce the deliverables or meet the project milestones in accordance with agreed upon specifications or timelines, or otherwise meet a client's expectations, may result in our having to record the cost related to the performance of services in the period that services were rendered, but delay the timing of revenue recognition to a future period in which the milestone is met. The loss of key members of our senior management team may prevent us from executing our business strategy. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service and performance of key members of our senior management team. Our growth and success depends to a significant extent on our ability to retain Kris Canekeratne, our chief executive officer, who is a founder of our company and has led the growth, operation, culture and strategic direction of our business since its inception. The loss of his services or the services of other key members of our senior management could seriously harm our ability to execute our business strategy. Although we have entered into agreements with certain of our executive officers providing for severance and change in control benefits to them, each of our executive officers or other key employees could terminate employment with us at any time. We also may have to incur significant costs in identifying, hiring, training and retaining replacements for key employees. The loss of any member of our senior management team might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business or development objectives and could materially harm our business. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our team members other than Kris Canekeratne. Unexpected costs or delays could make our contracts unprofitable. An increasing percentage of our client engagements represent fixed price engagements. When making proposals for engagements, especially our fixed price engagements, we estimate the costs and timing for completion of the projects. These estimates reflect our best judgment regarding the efficiencies of our methodologies, staffing of resources, complexities of the engagement and costs. The profitability of our engagements, and in particular our fixed-price contracts, are adversely affected by our ability to accurately estimate effort and resources needed to complete the project, increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of these engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, which could make these contracts less profitable or unprofitable. If we underestimate effort and resources required to complete a project and cannot recoup additional costs from our client, or if we endure additional costs or delays, and cannot complete the project, our utilization rates may lower as we remediate project issues, our profit from these engagements may be adversely affected and we may be subject to litigation claims. Regulatory compliance may divert our attention from the day-to-day management of our business. We have hired, and may need to hire a number of, additional team members with public accounting and disclosure experience in order to meet our ongoing obligations as a public company. Our management team and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these new compliance initiatives. In particular, these new obligations will require substantial attention from our senior 25 Table of Contents management and divert its attention away from the day-to-day management of our business, which could materially and adversely affect our business operations. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, and our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards in this regard have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In addition, the laws, regulations and standards regarding corporate governance may make it more difficult for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. Further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with their performance of duties. As a result, we may face difficulties attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. If we fail to comply with new or changed laws, regulations or standards of corporate governance, our business and reputation may be harmed. Our failure to anticipate rapid changes in technology may negatively affect demand for our services in the marketplace. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop and implement business and technology solutions that anticipate rapid and continuing changes in technology, industry standards and client preferences. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments on a timely basis, which may negatively affect demand for our solutions in the marketplace. Also, if our competitors respond faster than we do to changes in technology, industry standards and client preferences, we may lose business and our services may become less competitive or obsolete. Any one or a combination of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain and successfully complete client engagements. Interruptions or delays in service from our third-party providers could impair our global delivery model, which could result in client dissatisfaction and a reduction of our revenue. We depend upon third parties to provide a high speed network of active voice and data communications 24 hours per day and various satellite and optical links between our global delivery centers and our clients. Consequently, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems with the equipment or at the facilities of these third-party providers could result in unanticipated interruptions in the delivery of our services. For example, we may not be able to maintain active voice and data communications between our global delivery centers and our clients' sites at all times due to disruptions in these networks, system failures or virus attacks. Any significant loss in our ability to communicate or any impediments to any IT professional's ability to provide services to our clients could result in a disruption to our business, which could hinder our performance or our ability to complete client projects in a timely manner. This, in turn, could lead to substantial liability to our clients, client dissatisfaction, loss of revenue and a material adverse effect on our business, our operating results and financial condition. We cannot assure you that our business interruption insurance will adequately compensate our clients or us for losses that may occur. Even if covered by insurance, any failure or breach of security of our systems could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from growing. We anticipate that our current cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, together with cash generated from operations, will be sufficient to meet our current needs for general corporate purposes for the foreseeable future. We may also need additional financing to execute our current or future business strategies, including to: •add additional global delivery centers 26 Table of Contents •procure additional capacity and facilities •hire additional personnel •enhance our operating infrastructure •acquire businesses or technologies •otherwise respond to competitive pressures If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be significantly diluted and these newly issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. If we incur additional debt financing, a substantial portion of our operating cash flow may be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness, thus limiting funds available for our business activities. Any such debt financing could require us to comply with restrictive financial and operating covenants, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, when we desire them, our ability to fund our operations and growth, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities or otherwise respond to competitive pressures may be significantly limited. Some of our client contracts contain restrictions or penalty provisions that, if triggered, could result in lower future revenue and decrease our profitability. We have entered in the past, and may in the future enter, into contracts that contain restrictions or penalty provisions that, if triggered, may adversely affect our operating results. For instance, some of our client contracts provide that, during the term of the contract and for a certain period thereafter ranging from six to 12 months, we may not use the same personnel to provide similar services to any of the client's competitors. This restriction may hamper our ability to compete for and provide services to clients in the same industry. In addition, some contracts contain provisions that would require us to pay penalties to our clients if we do not meet pre-agreed service level requirements. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our future revenue and profitability under these contracts could be materially harmed. Negative public perception in the United States and the United Kingdom regarding offshore IT service providers and proposed legislation may adversely affect demand for our services. We have based our growth strategy on certain assumptions regarding our industry, services and future demand in the market for such services. However, the trend to outsource IT services may not continue and could reverse. Offshore outsourcing is a politically sensitive topic in the United States and the United Kingdom. For example, recently many organizations and public figures in the United States and the United Kingdom have publicly expressed concern about a perceived association between offshore outsourcing providers and the loss of jobs in their home countries. In addition, there has been recent publicity about the negative experience of certain companies that use offshore outsourcing, particularly in India. Current or prospective clients may elect to perform such services themselves or may be discouraged from transferring these services from onshore to offshore providers to avoid negative perceptions that may be associated with using an offshore provider. Any slowdown or reversal of existing industry trends towards offshore outsourcing would seriously harm our ability to compete effectively with competitors that operate out of facilities located in the United States or the United Kingdom. Legislation in the United States or the United Kingdom may be enacted that is intended to discourage or restrict outsourcing. In the United States, a variety of federal and state legislation has been proposed that, if enacted, could restrict or discourage U.S. companies from outsourcing their services to companies outside the United States. For example, legislation has been proposed that would require offshore providers to identify where they are located. In addition, it is possible that legislation could be adopted that would restrict U.S. private sector companies that have federal or state government contracts from 27 Table of Contents outsourcing their services to offshore service providers. We do not currently have any contracts with U.S. federal or state government entities. However, there can be no assurance that these restrictions will not extend to or be adopted by private companies, including our clients, or that we will not enter into government related contracts in the future. Recent legislation introduced in the United Kingdom would restrict or discourage companies from outsourcing their services, including IT services. Any changes to existing laws or the enactment of new legislation restricting offshore outsourcing in the United States or the United Kingdom may adversely affect our ability to do business in the United States or in the United Kingdom, particularly if these changes are widespread, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our services may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which may subject us to legal liability, harm our reputation, prevent us from offering some services to our clients or distract management. We cannot be sure that our services or the deliverables that we develop and create for our clients do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties and infringement claims may be asserted against us or our clients. These claims may harm our reputation, distract management, increase costs and prevent us from offering some services to our clients. Historically, we have generally agreed to indemnify our clients for all expenses and liabilities resulting from infringement of intellectual property rights of third parties based on the services and deliverables that we have performed and provided to our clients. In some instances, the amount of these indemnities may be greater than the revenue we receive from the client. In addition, as a result of intellectual property litigation, we may be required to stop selling, incorporating or using products that use or incorporate the infringed intellectual property. We may be required to obtain a license or pay a royalty to make, sell or use the relevant technology from the owner of the infringed intellectual property. Such licenses or royalties may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We may also be required to redesign our services or change our methodologies so as not to use the infringed intellectual property, which may not be technically or commercially feasible and may cause us to expend significant resources. Subject to certain limitations, under our indemnification obligations to our clients, we may also have to provide refunds to our clients to the extent that we must require them to cease using an infringing deliverable if we are unable to provide a work around or acquire a license to permit use of the infringing deliverable that we had provided to them as part of a service engagement. If we are obligated to make any such refunds or dedicate time to provide alternatives or acquire a license to the infringing intellectual property, our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Any claims or litigation involving intellectual property, whether we ultimately win or lose, could be extremely time-consuming, costly and injure our reputation. As the number of patents, copyrights and other intellectual property rights in our industry increases, we believe that companies in our industry will face more frequent infringement claims. Defending against these claims, even if the claims have no merit, may not be covered by or could exceed the protection offered by our insurance and could divert management's attention and resources from operating our company. We may face liability if we inappropriately disclose confidential client information. In the course of providing services to our clients, we may have access to confidential client information. We are bound by certain agreements to use and disclose this information in a manner consistent with the privacy standards under regulations applicable to our clients. Although these privacy standards may not apply directly to us, if any person, including a team member of ours, misappropriates client confidential information, or if client confidential information is inappropriately disclosed due to a breach of our computer systems, system failures or otherwise, we may have substantial liabilities to our clients or our clients' customers. In addition, in the event of any breach or alleged breach of our confidentiality agreements with our clients, these clients may terminate their engagements with us or sue us for breach of contract, resulting in the associated loss of revenue and increased costs. We may also be subject to civil or 28 Table of Contents criminal liability if we are deemed to have violated applicable regulations. We cannot assure you that we will adequately address the risks created by the regulations to which we may be contractually obligated to abide. We may not be able to obtain, develop or implement new systems, infrastructure, procedures and controls that are required to support our operations, maintain cost controls, market our services and manage our relationships with our clients. To manage our operations effectively, we must continue to maintain and may need to enhance, our IT infrastructure, financial and accounting systems and controls and manage expanded operations in several locations. We also must attract, integrate, train and retain qualified personnel, especially in the areas of accounting, internal audit and financial disclosure. Further, we will need to manage our relationships with various clients, vendors and other third parties. We may not be able to develop and implement, on a timely basis, if at all, the systems, infrastructure procedures and controls required to support our operations. Additionally some factors, like changes in immigration laws or visa processing restrictions that limit our ability to engage offshore resources at client locations in the United States, the United Kingdom or other countries, are outside of our control, including our financial, operational and communication systems, processes and controls. Our future operating results will also depend on our ability to develop and maintain a successful sales organization. If we are unable to manage our operations effectively, our operating results could fluctuate from quarter to quarter and our financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Due to our current inability to sell certain of our Auction-Rate Securities ("ARS"), the securities may experience additional declines in value, and funds associated with the securities may be inaccessible in excess of 12 months, which could adversely affect the value and liquidity of our assets. Our marketable securities portfolio at March 31, 2009 included ARS investments with a par value of $7.7 million from various issuers collateralized by student loans and municipal debt. ARS investments are principally investments with long-term contractual maturities but with interest rates that are reset every seven to thirty-five days by auctions. At the end of each reset period, investors can sell or continue to hold the securities at par. During February, 2008, certain ARS investments that we held experienced failed auctions that limited the liquidity of these investments. Due to our inability to sell these securities at auction since February, 2008, on November 10, 2008, we accepted an offer from UBS AG ("UBS"), one of our investment brokers through whom we purchased $6.7 million of our ARS, that grants us the right to sell our ARS back to UBS, at par value, at any time during a two-year period beginning June 30, 2010 (the "Put Option"). We may be unable to liquidate our ARS securities, and there is no guarantee UBS will be able to redeem the Put Option on or after June 30, 2010. Our results of operations and business may be adversely affected investigations conducted by the Wage and Hour Division of the U.S. Department of Labor. There are strict labor regulations associated with the H-1B visa classification. Larger employers of the H-1B visa program are often subject to investigations by the Wage and Hour Division of the U.S. Department of Labor. In October 2008, the Department of Labor commenced an investigation to determine if we have complied with the elements of the Labor Condition Application(s) (ETA Form 9035) to hire certain H-1B non-immigrant workers. We believe the Department of Labors' primary focus was on whether our team members with H-1B renewals were paid at the appropriate pay level. We cannot provide any assurance that the Department of Labor will not initiate other investigations regarding our employment and immigration practices in the future. An adverse finding by the U.S. Department of Labor may result in back-pay liability, substantial fines, and/or a ban on future use of the H-1B program and other immigration benefits, which could materially harm our business and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Risks related to our Indian and Sri Lankan operations Political instability or changes in the government in India could result in the change of several policies relating to foreign direct investment and repatriation of capital and dividends. Further, changes in the economic policies could adversely affect economic conditions in India generally and our business in particular. We have three subsidiaries in India and a significant portion of our business, fixed assets and human resources are located in India. As a result, our business is affected by foreign exchange rates and controls, interest rates, local regulations, changes in government policy, taxation, social and civil unrest and other political, economic or other developments in or affecting India. Since 1991, successive Indian governments have pursued policies of economic liberalization, including significantly relaxing restrictions on foreign direct investment into India with repatriation benefits. Nevertheless, the roles of the Indian central and state governments in the Indian economy as producers, consumers and regulators have remained significant. The rate of economic liberalization could change and specific laws and policies affecting software companies, foreign investment, currency exchange and other matters affecting investment in our securities could change as well. A significant change in India's economic liberalization and deregulation policies could adversely affect business and economic conditions in India generally and our business in particular, if new restrictions on the private sector are introduced or if existing restrictions are increased. Changes in the policies of the government of Sri Lanka or political instability could delay the further liberalization of the Sri Lankan economy and adversely affect economic conditions in Sri Lanka, which could adversely affect our business. Our subsidiary in Sri Lanka has been approved as an export computer software developer by the Board of Investment in Sri Lanka, which is a statutory body organized to facilitate foreign investment into Sri Lanka and grant concessions and benefits to entities with which it has entered into agreements. Pursuant to our agreement with the Board of Investment, our subsidiary is entitled to exemptions from taxation on income for a period of 12 years expiring on March 31, 2019. Nevertheless, government policies relating to taxation other than on income would have an impact on the subsidiary, and the political, economic or social factors in Sri Lanka may affect these policies. Historically, past incumbent governments have followed policies of economic liberalization. However, we cannot assure you that the current government or future governments will continue these liberal policies. Regional conflicts or terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war in India, Sri Lanka, the United States, the United Kingdom or other regions could adversely affect financial markets, resulting in loss of client confidence and our ability to serve our clients which, in turn, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The Asian region has from time to time experienced instances of civil unrest and hostilities among neighboring countries, including between India and Pakistan. Since May 1999, military confrontations between India and Pakistan have occurred in Kashmir. Also, there have been military hostilities and civil unrest in Iraq. Terrorist attacks, such as the ones that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C., on September 11, 2001, New Delhi on December 13, 2001, Bali on October 12, 2002, London on July 7, 2005, Mumbai on November 26, 2008, civil or political unrest and military hostilities in Sri Lanka and other acts of violence or war, including those involving India, Sri Lanka, the United States, the United Kingdom or other countries, may adversely affect U.S., U.K. and worldwide financial markets. Prospective clients may wish to visit several of our facilities, including our global delivery centers in India and Sri Lanka, prior to reaching a decision on vendor selection. Terrorist threats, attacks and international conflicts could make travel more difficult and cause potential clients to delay, postpone or cancel decisions to use our services. In addition, such attacks may have an adverse impact on our ability to operate effectively and interrupt lines of communication and restrict our offshore resources from traveling onsite to client locations, effectively curtailing our ability to deliver our services to our clients. These obstacles may increase our 30 Table of Contents expenses and negatively affect our operating results. In addition, military activity, terrorist attacks, political tensions between India and Pakistan and conflicts within Sri Lanka could create a greater perception that the acquisition of services from companies with significant Indian or Sri Lankan operations involves a higher degree of risk that could adversely affect client confidence in India or Sri Lanka as a software development center, each of which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Recently, the Sri Lankan government has made substantial military gains in the ethnic conflict against the Tamil Tigers in Sri Lanka. The many years of the ethnic conflict have substantially affected the political and economic climate of Sri Lanka. With the military conflict now ending, the Sri Lankan economy may benefit from increased tourism, foreign investment and overall political stability. With economic growth and stability, the Sri Lankan currency may appreciate and there may be increased diversification in job opportunities for the Sri Lankan workforce. If the Sri Lankan rupee appreciates, our costs of operations may increase. In addition, if the Sri Lankan labor pool gains a growing number of alternatives due to an expanding and diversifying local economy, we may encounter increased competition and costs in recruiting, hiring and retaining qualified resources, each of which could have a negative impact on our costs of revenue and margins. Our net income may decrease if the governments of the United Kingdom, the United States, India or Sri Lanka adjust the amount of our taxable income by challenging our transfer pricing policies. Our subsidiaries conduct intercompany transactions among themselves and with the U.S. parent company on an arm's-length basis in accordance with U.S. and local country transfer pricing regulations. The jurisdictions in which we pay income taxes could challenge our determination of arm's-length profit and issue tax assessments. Although the United States has income tax treaties with all countries in which we have operations, the costs to appeal any such tax assessment and potential interest and penalties could decrease our earnings and cash flows. The Indian taxing authorities issued an assessment order with respect to their examination of our tax returns for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2004 and March 31, 2005 of our Indian subsidiary, Virtusa (India) Private Ltd., or Virtusa India. At issue in each assessment were several matters, the most significant of which was the re-determination of the arm's-length profit related to intercompany transactions. We are contesting both assessments and have filed, or intend to file, appeals with both the appropriate Indian tax authorities and the U.S. Competent Authority. Our net income may decrease if the governments of India or Sri Lanka reduce or withdraw tax benefits and other incentives provided to us or levy new taxes. Virtusa India is an export-oriented company under the Indian Income Tax Act of 1961 and is entitled to claim tax exemption for each Software Technology Park, or STP, which it operates. Virtusa India currently operates two STPs, in Chennai and in Hyderabad. Substantially all of the earnings of both STPs qualify as tax-exempt export profits. These holidays will be completely phased out by March 2010, and at that time any profits would be fully taxable at the Indian statutory rate, which is currently 34%. Although we believe we have complied with and are eligible for the STP holiday, the government of India may deem us ineligible for the STP holiday or make adjustments to the profit level resulting in an overall increase in our effective tax rate. We have located a portion of our Indian operations in areas designated as a Special Economic Zone, or SEZ, under the SEZ Act of 2005. In particular, we are continuing our construction of a facility on a campus on a 6.3 acre parcel of land in Hyderabad, India that has been designated as a SEZ. In addition, we have leased space and operate on a SEZ designated location in Chennai, India. Although our profits from the SEZ operations would be eligible for certain income tax exemptions for a period up to 15 years, we may not be able to take full advantage of the tax holidays in each SEZ if we are not able to migrate our operations, including the hiring of IT professionals, into the SEZ facilities and there is no guarantee that we will secure SEZ status for any other future locations in India. Additionally, the 31 Table of Contents government of India may deem us ineligible for a SEZ holiday or make adjustments to the transfer pricing profit levels resulting in an overall increase in our effective tax rate. In addition, our Sri Lankan subsidiary, Virtusa Private Ltd., or Virtusa SL, was approved as an export computer software developer by the Sri Lanka Board of Investment in 1998 and has negotiated multiple extensions of the original holiday period in exchange for further capital investments in Sri Lanka facilities. The most recent 12-year agreement, which is set to expire on March 31, 2019, requires that we meet certain new job creation and investment criteria. Our inability to meet the agreed upon timetable for new job creation and investment would jeopardize the benefits of the holiday arrangement. Fringe Benefit Tax legislation in India could harm our results of operations and ability to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel. In May 2007, the Parliament of India enacted the Finance Act, 2007, which, among other things, imposes a fringe benefit tax at the applicable Indian tax rate (currently 34%) on certain stock compensation and equity awards paid or issued to team members of our Indian subsidiaries. Specifically, the fringe benefit tax, which is payable upon the exercise of such equity awards, is based on the fair market value of the equity award upon vesting. Because our potential tax liability is dependent on the fair market value of our common stock at the time of vesting of such equity awards, which could span over the next several years, and whether the equity awards are ultimately exercised, it is difficult to accurately forecast and could represent a significant liability and expense to us. We have decided to reduce the impact of this tax obligation on us, by passing the cost of the fringe benefit tax on to our team members from our Indian subsidiaries. However, such alternatives do not eliminate the negative impact of the tax liability on our statements of income and result in significant non-cash compensation expense, which impacts our gross margin, operating profit margin and net income and creates volatility in our income from operations from period to period. This transfer of cost could significantly decrease the desirability of these equity awards to these team members, which could harm our ability to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel. In addition, there is no guarantee that we will be able to collect all the costs back from our employees. Wage pressures and increases in government mandated benefits in India and Sri Lanka may reduce our profit margins. Wage costs in India and Sri Lanka have historically been significantly lower than wage costs in the United States and Europe for comparably-skilled professionals. However, wages in India and Sri Lanka are increasing, which will result in increased costs for IT professionals, particularly project managers and other mid-level professionals. We may need to increase the levels of our team member compensation more rapidly than in the past to remain competitive without the ability to make corresponding increases to our billing rates. Compensation increases may reduce our profit margins, make us less competitive in pricing potential projects against those companies with lower cost resources and otherwise harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we contribute to benefit funds covering our employees in India and Sri Lanka as mandated by the Indian and Sri Lankan governments. Benefits are based on the team member years of service and compensation. If the governments of India and/or Sri Lanka were to legislate increases to the benefits required under these plans or mandate additional benefits, our profitability and cash flows would be reduced. Our facilities are at risk of damage by earthquakes, tsunamis and other natural disasters. In December 2004, Sri Lanka and India were struck by multiple tsunamis that devastated certain areas of both countries. Our Indian and Sri Lankan facilities are located in regions that are susceptible to tsunamis and other natural disasters, which may increase the risk of disruption of information systems and telephone service for sustained periods. Damage or destruction that interrupts our ability to deliver our services could damage our relationships with our clients and may cause us to incur substantial additional expense to 32 Table of Contents repair or replace damaged equipment or facilities. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all such expenses. Furthermore, we may be unable to secure such insurance coverage or to secure such insurance coverage at premiums acceptable to us in the future. Prolonged disruption of our services as a result of natural disasters may cause our clients to terminate their contracts with us and may result in project delays, project cancellations and loss of substantial revenue to us. Prolonged disruptions may also harm our team members or cause them to relocate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The laws of India and Sri Lanka do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as those of the United States and we may be unsuccessful in protecting our intellectual property rights. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights may result in loss of clients and increased competition. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to protect our proprietary methodologies, trade secrets and other intellectual property. We rely upon a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, non-disclosure agreements, other contractual arrangements and copyright and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property rights. However, existing laws of India and Sri Lanka do not provide protection of intellectual property rights to the same extent as provided in the United States. The steps we take to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate to prevent or deter infringement or other unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Thus, we may not be able to detect unauthorized use or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. Our competitors may be able to imitate or duplicate our services or methodologies. The unauthorized use or duplication of our intellectual property could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and team members, reduce our revenue and increase our costs and expenses. We may need to litigate to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any such litigation could be extremely time-consuming and costly and could materially adversely impact our business. Any changes in U.S. corporate income tax law to impose U.S. tax on untaxed foreign profits could result in a higher effective income tax rate for us and adversely impact net income. Recently, tax law changes have been proposed in the United States to limit certain incentives for U.S. companies which invest and reinvest overseas. While the legislation being discussed does not currently seek to repeal the current tax exemption on permanently reinvested foreign profits, we can make no assurance that a more far reaching tax proposal impacting permanently reinvested foreign profits would not ultimately be enacted. If the current exemption for permanently reinvested foreign profits were to be repealed, it would have a negative impact on our effective tax rate and net income as we permanently reinvest certain of our profits in and through certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries located in India and Sri Lanka where certain of such profits are not currently subject to tax under tax holidays in these countries. Risks related to our common stock Our common stock may become more volatile, especially given the recent global economic downturn and volatility in domestic and international stock markets. Since mid-2007, global credit and other financial markets have suffered substantial stress, volatility, illiquidity and disruption. These forces reached unprecedented levels in September and October 2008, resulting in the bankruptcy or acquisition of, or government assistance to, several major domestic and international financial institutions and a material decline in economic conditions regionally and globally causing extreme volatility in domestic and international stock markets. In particular, the NASDAQ Global Market, on which our common stock is traded, has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have negatively affected the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies. Since our initial public offering in August 2007, our stock has experienced volatility. For instance, the closing sale price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market has ranged from $19.60 on November 13, 2007 to $4.21 on October 27, 2008. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to 33 Table of Contents operating performance. In addition, there are many other factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, including: •actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us •deterioration and decline in general economic, industry and/or market conditions •announcements of technological innovations or new services by us or our competitors •changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by market analysts •announcements by us or our competitors of significant projects, contracts, acquisitions, strategic alliances or joint ventures •changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt •regulatory developments in the United States, the United Kingdom, Sri Lanka, India or other countries in which we operate or have clients •litigation involving our company, our general industry or both •additions or departures of key team members •investors' general perception of us •changes in the market valuations of other IT service providers If any of the foregoing occurs or continues to occur, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to securities class action litigation. Any securities class action litigation could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management's attention and resources. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may prevent or delay a change of control of us and could also limit the market price of our common stock. Certain provisions of Delaware law and of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us, even if such a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders or result in a premium for your shares of our common stock. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: •a classified board of directors •limitations on the removal of directors •advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations •the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings •the ability of our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our by-laws The affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote is necessary to amend or repeal the above provisions that are contained in our certificate of incorporation. In addition, our board of directors has the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. Also, absent approval of our board of directors, our by-laws may only be amended or repealed by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits business combination transactions with stockholders of 15% or more of our outstanding voting 34 Table of Contents stock that our board of directors has not approved. These provisions and other similar provisions make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to acquire us without negotiation. These provisions may apply even if some stockholders may consider the transaction beneficial to them. These provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions might also discourage a potential acquisition proposal or tender offer, even if the acquisition proposal or tender offer is at a premium over the then current market price for our common stock. Our existing stockholders and management control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring stockholder vote. Our executive officers, directors and stockholders affiliated with our directors will beneficially own, in the aggregate, shares representing approximately 43.2% of our outstanding capital stock. Although we are not aware of any voting arrangements that are in place among these stockholders, if these stockholders were to choose to act together, as a result of their stock ownership, they would be able to control all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and approval of any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration of voting power could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company on terms that other stockholders may desire. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 