Item 1A. Risk Factors. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. This discussion highlights some of the risks which may affect future operating results. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider. Our operating results and financial condition have varied in the past and may vary significantly in the future depending on a number of factors. We cannot be certain that we will successfully address these risks. If we are unable to address these risks, our business may not grow, our stock price may suffer and/or we may be unable to stay in business. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. Except for the historical information in this Annual Report, various matters contained in this Annual Report include forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report and presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Such factors, among others, may have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. You should consider carefully the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. Risks relating to our business Our revenue is highly dependent on a small number of clients and the loss of, or material reduction in, revenue from any one of our major clients could significantly harm our results of operations and financial condition. We have historically earned, and believe that over the next few fiscal years we will continue to earn, a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of clients. For instance, we generated approximately 39%, 34% and 35% of our revenue in our fiscal years ended March 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, from our top three clients during those periods. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, AIG Global Services, Inc. (primarily through its affiliates, Chartis Global Claims Services, Inc. and Chartis Global Services, Inc. ("AIG"), JPMC and BT accounted for 14%, 14% and 11% of our total revenue, respectively. In addition, during each of the fiscal years ended March 31, 2013 and 2012, 90% of our revenue came from clients to whom we had been providing services for at least one year. The loss of, or 15 Table of Contents material reduction in, revenue from any one of our major clients could materially reduce our total revenue, harm our reputation in the industry and/or reduce our ability to accurately predict our revenue, net income and cash flow. The loss of, or material reduction in revenue from any one of our major clients could also adversely affect our gross profit and utilization as we seek to redeploy resources previously dedicated to that client. Generally, our clients retain us on a non-exclusive, engagement-by-engagement basis, rather than under exclusive long-term contracts and may typically terminate or reduce our engagements without termination related penalties. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that revenue from our major clients will not be significantly reduced in the future, including from factors unrelated to our performance or work product such as consolidation by or among our clients or the acquisition of a client. Further, the loss of, or material reduction in revenue from any one of our major clients has required, and could in the future require, us to increase involuntary attrition. This could have a material adverse effect on our attrition rate and make it more difficult for us to attract and retain IT professionals in the future. We may not be able to maintain our client relationships with our major clients on existing or on continued favorable terms and our clients may not renew their agreements with us, in which case, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. For instance, on January 31, 2012, Virtusa UK Limited, our UK subsidiary, entered into a Global Frame Contract (the "GFA") with BT which replaced Virtusa UK Limited's previously disclosed master services agreement with BT dated as of March 29, 2007, as amended (the "MSA"), in its entirety. Under the terms of the GFA, BT had, among other terms, agreed to a minimum aggregate expenditure commitment of approximately £102 million over a term beginning April 1, 2007 to March 31, 2013, reflecting a continuation of the minimum commitment previously agreed under the MSA. As of March 31, 2013, the provisions regarding minimum commitments of BT have expired. While BT represented 11% of our revenue in the fiscal year ending March 31, 2013, there can be no assurance that BT's historical levels of spending with us will continue, if at all. Further, there can be no assurance that the GFA, which contains provisions regarding, insurance, indemnities, limitations of liability and confidentiality that are materially similar to those contained in the MSA, as well as other provisions relating to warranty, service levels, liquidated damages and other customary terms and conditions, will not be amended by BT on terms not favorable to us, will not be terminated prior to the end of its expiration date of January 1, 2015 or that the GFA will be renewed, and if so, on terms favorable to us. Our client concentration may also subject us to perceived or actual leverage that our clients may have, given their relative size and importance to us. If our clients seek to negotiate their agreements on terms less favorable to us and we accept such unfavorable terms, such unfavorable terms may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, unless and until we diversify and expand our client base, our future success will significantly depend upon the timing and volume of business from our largest clients and the financial and operational success of these clients. If we were to lose one of our major clients or have a major client cancel substantial projects or otherwise significantly reduce its volume of business with us, our revenue and profitability would be materially reduced and our business and operating results would be seriously harmed. If we cannot attract and retain highly-skilled IT professionals, our ability to obtain, manage and staff new projects and expand existing projects may result in loss of revenue and an inability to expand our business. Our business is labor intensive and our ability to execute and expand existing projects and obtain new clients depends largely on our ability to hire, train and retain highly-skilled IT professionals, particularly project managers, IT engineers and other senior technical personnel. The improvement in demand for global IT services has further increased the need for employees with specialized skills or significant experience in IT services, particularly at senior levels and those with special skills. Further, there is intense worldwide competition for IT professionals with the skills necessary to perform the services we offer. If we cannot hire and retain such additional qualified personnel, our ability to acquire, manage and staff new projects and to expand, manage and staff existing projects, may be materially impaired. We may then lose 16 Table of Contents revenue and our ability to expand our business may be harmed. For example, in our fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, our voluntary attrition rate was 13.3%. We, and the industry in which we operate, generally experience high employee attrition and we cannot assure you that we will be able to hire or retain the number and quality of technical personnel necessary to satisfy our current and future client needs. We also may not be able to hire and retain enough skilled and experienced IT professionals to replace those who leave. Additionally, if we have to replace personnel who have left our company, we will incur increased costs not only in hiring replacements but also in training such replacements until they can become productive and billable to our clients. In addition, we may not be able to redeploy and retrain our IT professionals in anticipation of continuing changes in technology, evolving standards and changing client preferences. Our inability to attract and retain IT professionals, or delays or inability to staff needed resources on client engagements may cause client dissatisfaction, project and staffing delays in new and existing engagements, project cancellations, project losses, higher project costs and loss of revenue, resulting in decreases in profits and a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The IT services market is highly competitive and our competitors may have advantages that may allow them to compete more effectively than we do to secure client contracts and attract skilled IT professionals. The IT services market in which we operate includes a large number of participants and is highly competitive. Our primary competitors include offshore IT outsourcing firms and consulting and systems integration firms. We also occasionally compete with in-house IT departments, smaller vertically-focused IT service providers and local IT service providers based in the geographic areas where we compete. We expect additional competition from offshore IT outsourcing firms in emerging locations such as Eastern Europe, Latin America and China, as well as offshore IT service providers with facilities in less expensive geographies within India. The IT services industry in which we compete is experiencing rapid changes in its competitive landscape. Some of the large consulting firms and offshore IT service providers with which we compete have significant resources and financial capabilities combined with a greater number of IT professionals. Many of our competitors are significantly larger and some have gained access to public and private capital or have merged or consolidated with better capitalized partners, which events have created and may in the future create, larger and better capitalized competitors. Our competitors may have superior abilities to compete for market share, and compete against us for our existing and prospective clients. Our competitors may also have larger engagements with our existing or prospective clients which, due to our size and scale, may provide our competitors with significant advantages in any competitive bidding process. Our competitors may also be better able to use significant economic incentives, such as lower billing rates or non-billable resources, to secure contracts with our existing and prospective clients or gain a competitive advantage by being able to staff engagements that we are unable to staff, due to our shortage of resources, our lack of special skill sets or immigration delays. Our competitors may also be better able to compete for and retain skilled professionals by offering them more attractive compensation or other incentives. These factors may allow our competitors to have advantages over us to meet client demands in an engagement requiring large numbers and varied types of resources with specific experience or skill-sets that we may not have readily available in the short-term or the long-term. We cannot assure you that we can maintain or enhance our competitive position against current and future competitors. Our failure to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We depend on clients primarily located in the United States and Europe (primarily, the United Kingdom), and are therefore subject to the risks and events affecting these geographies and economies that may cause our clients to reduce or postpone their IT spending. For our fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, we derived substantially all of our revenue from clients located in the United States and Europe (primarily, the United Kingdom). During the fiscal year ended 17 Table of Contents March 31, 2013, we generated 75% of our revenue from clients in the United States, 20% of our revenue from clients in the Europe (primarily, the United Kingdom) and 5% from clients in the rest of the world. While the United States economy has marginally improved recently, the European economy remains weakened. If a weakening or slowing of these economies continues or accelerates, or deterioration in these financial markets occurs, pricing for our services may be depressed and our clients may reduce or postpone their technology spending significantly, which may in turn lower the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenue and profitability. Additionally, any prolonged recession or weakening of the growth rates and economies in the United States and/or Europe could have a material adverse impact on IT budgets, erode our client base and our target markets and have a material adverse impact on our revenue. We depend on clients concentrated in specific industries, such as BFSI, and are therefore subject to risks relating to developments affecting these clients and industries that may cause them to reduce or postpone their IT spending. In our fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, we derived substantially all of our revenue from clients in three industries: BFSI, C&T, and M&I. During our fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, we earned approximately 60% of our revenue from clients in the BFSI industries and our revenue from this industry vertical grew by approximately 24% from the prior fiscal year. If any decline in the growth of the BFSI industries, particularly the financial services industry, occurs, or if there is a significant consolidation in these industries or a decrease in growth or consolidation in other industry verticals on which we focus, such events could materially reduce the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenue and profitability. If economic conditions weaken or slow particularly in the industries in which we focus, our clients may significantly reduce or postpone their IT spending. Reductions in IT budgets, increased consolidation or increased competition in these industries could result in an erosion of our client base and a reduction in our target market. Any reductions in the IT spending of companies in any one of these industries may reduce the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenue and profitability. Restrictions on immigration may affect our ability to compete for and provide services to clients in the United States, the United Kingdom, or other countries, which could result in lost revenue, lower gross margins, delays in client engagements and otherwise adversely affect our ability to meet our growth, revenue and profit projections. The vast majority of our team members are Indian and Sri Lankan nationals. The ability of our IT professionals to work in the United States, the United Kingdom and other countries depends on our ability to obtain the necessary visas and entry permits. In recent years, the United States has increased the level of scrutiny in granting H-1(B), L-1 and other business visas. The H-1(B) visa classification enables U.S. employers to hire qualified foreign workers in positions that require an education at least equal to a four-year bachelor degree in the United States in specialty occupations such as IT systems engineering and systems analysis. The H-1(B) visa usually permits an individual to work and live in the United States for a period of up to six years. Under certain circumstances, H-1(B) visa extensions after the six-year period may be available. H-1B visa holders are required to be paid the higher of the actual wage, or the prevailing wage for their position at the site of their employment. In addition, there are strict labor regulations associated with the H-1(B) visa classification, including disclosure, attestations and document retention. All users of the H-1(B) program are subject to periodic site visits from the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services or USCIS to verify their compliance with immigration and Labor Regulations. In addition the Wage and Hour Division of the United States Department of Labor may also conduct H-1B audits to verify compliance with labor regulations. A finding by the United States Department of Labor of willful or substantial failure by us to comply with existing regulations on the H-1(B) classification may result in back-pay liability, substantial fines, and/or a ban on future use of the H-1(B) program and other immigration benefits. We are users of the H-1(B) visa classification with respect to some of our key offshore workers who have relocated onsite to perform services for our clients. We also regularly transfer employees from our global subsidiaries, primarily those from India and Sri Lanka to the United States to work on projects and at client sites using the L-1 visa classification. The L-1 18 Table of Contents visa allows companies abroad to transfer certain managers, executives and employees with specialized company knowledge to related United States companies such as a parent, subsidiary, affiliate, joint venture, or branch office. We have an approved "Blanket L Program," under which the corporate relationships of our transferring and receiving entities have been pre-approved by the USCIS, thus enabling individual L-1 visa applications to be presented directly to a visa-issuing United States consular post abroad rather than undergoing the individual petition pre-approval process through USCIS in the United States. In recent years, both the United States consular posts that review initial L-1 applications and USCIS, which adjudicates individual petitions for initial grants and extensions of L-1 status, have become increasingly restrictive with respect to their interpretation of the regulations governing this category and all applications are subject to increased scrutiny. For example, all L-1 applicants, including those brought to the United States under a Blanket L Program, must have worked abroad with the related company for one full year in the prior three years. In addition, L-1B "specialized knowledge" visa holders may not be primarily stationed at the work site of another employer if the L-1B visa holder will be principally controlled and supervised by an employer other than the petitioning employer. Finally, L-1B status may not be granted where placement of the L-1B visa holder at a third party site is part of an arrangement to provide labor for hire to the third party, rather than placement at the site in connection with the provision of a product or service involving specialized knowledge specific to the petitioning employer. As a result, the rate of refusals of both individual and blanket L-1 petitions and of extensions has materially increased. In addition, even where L-1 visas are ultimately granted and issued, security measures undertaken by United States consular posts around the world have substantially delayed visa issuances as they are allowed the right to further scrutinize the visa and request for additional supporting documentation. Any inability to bring, or delays in bringing, qualified technical personnel into the United States to staff on-site customer locations would have a material adverse effect on our client engagements, our business, results of operations and financial condition. Due to these immigration delays, we may also be required to hire or subcontract resources locally or perform more work onsite, thus negatively impacting our gross margins and overall profitability. We also process immigrant visas for lawful permanent residence (green cards) in the United States for employees to fill positions for which there are an insufficient number of able, willing, and qualified United States workers available to fill the positions. Compliance with existing United States immigration and labor laws, or changes in those laws making it more difficult to hire foreign nationals or limiting our ability to successfully obtain permanent residence for our foreign employees in the United States, could require us to incur additional unexpected labor costs and expenses or could restrain our ability to retain the skilled professionals we need for our operations in the United States. Any of these restrictions or limitations on our hiring practices could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In response to terrorist attacks and global unrest, U.S. and U.K. immigration authorities, as well as other countries, have not only increased the level of scrutiny and conditions to granting visas, but have also introduced new security procedures, which include extensive background checks, personal interviews and the use of biometrics, as conditions to granting visas and work permits. A number of European countries are considering changes in immigration policies as well. The inability of key project personnel to obtain necessary visas or work permits could delay or prevent our fulfillment of client projects, which could hamper our growth and cause our revenue to decline. These restrictions and additional procedures may delay, or even prevent the issuance of a visa or work permit to our IT professionals and affect our ability to staff projects in a timely manner. Any delays in staffing a project can result in project postponement, delays or cancellation, which could result in lost revenue and decreased profitability and have a material adverse effect on our business, revenue, profitability and utilization rates. Immigration laws in countries in which we seek to obtain visas or work permits may require us to meet certain other legal requirements as conditions to obtaining or maintaining entry visas. These immigration laws are subject to legislative change and varying standards of application and enforcement due to political 19 Table of Contents forces, economic conditions or other events, including terrorist attacks. For instance, there are certain restrictions on transferring employees to work in the United Kingdom, where we have experienced growth. The United Kingdom requires that all employees who are not nationals of European Union countries (plus Bulgaria and Romania) to obtain work permission before obtaining a visa/entry clearance to travel to the United Kingdom. New European nationals from countries such as Hungary, Poland, Lithuania, Slovakia, and the Czech Republic do not have a work permit requirement but do need to obtain a worker registration within 30 days of arrival. The United Kingdom has introduced a points-based system under which certain certificates of sponsorship are issued by licensed employer sponsors, provided the employees they seek to employ in the United Kingdom can demonstrate that the employee can accumulate 50 points based on certain attributes, which include academic qualifications, intended salary and other factors plus 10 points for English language (not necessary where the employee is an intra company transferee) and 10 points for maintenance. Where the employee has not worked for a Virtusa group company outside the United Kingdom for at least 12 months, we will need to carry out a resident labor market test to confirm that the intended role cannot be filled by a European Economic Area national. While we are an A-rated sponsor and have been able to obtain certificates of sponsorship to satisfy our demand for transfers to the United Kingdom, we can make no assurance that we can continue to do so. Further, we cannot predict the political or economic events that could affect immigration laws or any restrictive impact those events could have on obtaining or monitoring entry visas for our personnel. Our reliance on work visas and work permits for a significant number of our IT professionals makes us particularly vulnerable to such changes and variations, particularly in the United States and Europe, because these immigration and legislative changes affect our ability to staff projects with IT professionals who are not citizens of the country where the onsite work is to be performed. We may not be able to obtain a sufficient number of visas for our IT professionals or may encounter delays or additional costs in obtaining or maintaining such visas. To the extent we experience delays due to such immigration restrictions, we may encounter client dissatisfaction, project and staffing delays in new and existing engagements, project cancellations, project losses, higher project costs and loss of revenue, resulting in decreases in profits and a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Due to these immigration delays, we may also need to perform more work onsite, or hire more resources locally, thus reducing our gross margins and overall profitability. Changes, and proposed changes, in U.S. immigration law, if approved into law, may increase our cost of revenue and may substantially restrict or eliminate our ability to obtain visas to use offshore resources onsite, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, revenue, profitability and utilization rates. The issue of companies outsourcing services to organizations operating in other countries is a topic of political discussion in many countries, including the United States, which is our largest market. For example, measures aimed at limiting or restricting outsourcing by United States companies are periodically considered in the U.S. Congress and in numerous state legislatures to address concerns over the perceived association between offshore outsourcing and the loss of jobs domestically. On August 13, 2010, President Barack Obama signed legislation, which contained provisions to impose additional fees of $2,000 for certain H-1(B) petitions and $2,250 for certain L-1A and L-1B petitions beginning in August 2010 through September 20, 2014. These fees were extended through September 20, 2015 and already have had a negative impact on our gross profits and overall cost of operations, given especially the very competitive environment in which we operate, and despite our efforts to recoup these costs either directly from our clients or indirectly through our billing rates. Legislators have also discussed comprehensive immigration reform. While the comprehensive immigration reform legislation focuses primarily on the millions of illegal immigrants in the United States, there is a likelihood that the law would include some content regarding H-1(B) and L-1 visas as described in the recently proposed legislation. 20 Table of Contents In particular, the proposed legislation has many provisions that if enacted, may substantially and negatively impact our business. For instance, the new proposed legislation, if enacted, seeks to restrict companies with more than 50% of the U.S. based work force comprised of employees with an L-1 or H-1(B) visa from filing additional visa petitions, including visa petitions for H-1(B) or L-1 visas. In the first year of the proposed law, if enacted, companies must have fewer than 75% of their US employee base using H-1(B) and/or L-1 visas or the company would be prohibited from filing for any additional visa petitions, including visa petitions for H-1(B) or L-1 visas. In year two of the proposed law, the requirement would decline to 65%, and in year 3 of the proposed law, the requirement of a having a total population of a company's US workforce holding H-1(B) and L-1 visas would decline to 50% or the company would not be able to file for additional H-1(B) or L-1 visas. The new legislation may also require that any company which is "H-1B dependent," meaning that the company has 15% or more of its US employees who are working for the company under a H-1(B) visa, not be allowed to place any additional H-1B or L-1 visa employees at a client site. Further, the new legislation would substantially increase visa fees to companies on an increasing sliding scale based on the percentage of that company's workers using the H-1(B) or L-1 visa, to the extent that the company had at least 30% of its US workforce using an H1-(B) or L-1 visa. The new legislation may also require companies seeking H-1(B) and L-1 visas to undertake a good faith recruitment process to prove that there is no displacement of U.S. workers. Finally, the new legislation may also require companies to pay higher wages for H-1B and L-1 visa holders, thus substantially increasing the cost of employing these H1-B and L-1 visa employees. If some or all of the legislation discussed above were passed into law, we may not be able to apply for or obtain necessary visas or work permits for key offshore personnel or other offshore resources in the numbers needed for onsite assignments and we may not be able to hire or engage suitable resources to staff current or future client engagements. Even if we are able to continue to use H1-B or L-1 visas, the proposed legislation would substantially increase the costs of visas which would materially and negatively impact our costs of revenue, our gross profits and our statement of operations unless we were able to pass off all or substantially all of the increased visa costs to our clients, which we may not able to do due to competitive pricing pressure and the general competitive environment in which we operate. If we become subject to the legislation which requires additional "good faith" recruiting processes to occur locally before applying for H-1(B) visas, our costs of hiring could increase, and our ability to staff appropriately skilled resources on client projects could be restricted or substantially delayed. The potential risks and impact to our business if some or all of the proposed immigration legislation relating to use of H-1 (B) and L-1 visas is approved also could include: •Reduced ability to bring in foreign workers on a L-1 or H-1(B) visa •Increased scrutiny and requests for proof of eligibility on the use of L-1 and H-1(B) visas •Higher costs, including wages and benefits, for H-1(B) and L-1 visa holders •Elimination of a company's ability to pay the living expenses of an L-1 visa holder on a tax free basis •Increased oversight by the Department of Labor ("DOL") over issuance, use and administration of L-1 visas, just as the DOL currently oversees H-1(B) visas Even if we are able to apply for, or obtain, such visas, we could incur substantial delays and costs in processing any such requests and our costs of operations could materially rise, thus materially and negatively impacting our gross margins and our statement of operations. Any inability to obtain, or extended delays in obtaining, these visas, or any delays or inability to hire resources for existing or future client projects could materially delay or prevent our commencement or fulfillment of client projects, which could hamper our growth and cause our revenue to decline. In addition, we may have to hire or use local onsite resources at substantially higher wage levels, rather than using existing offshore resources to staff onsite engagements which would materially reduce our gross margins. Even if we use our offshore resources, we may have to put offshore resources on U.S. payroll at U.S. prevailing wage levels and full 21 Table of Contents benefits, rather than the existing practice of being able to provide a per diem reimbursement to the offshore resource on a tax free basis to cover living expenses while onsite. Our costs of revenue could then substantially increase and our gross profit and our gross margins could then be materially and adversely affected. Any such delays or inability to staff needed resources on client engagements may cause client dissatisfaction, project and staffing delays in new and existing engagements, project cancellations, higher project costs and loss of revenue, resulting in decreases in profits and a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our inability to manage to a desired onsite-to-offshore service delivery mix may negatively affect our gross margins and costs and our ability to offer competitive pricing. We may not succeed in maintaining or increasing our profitability and could incur losses in future periods if we are not able to manage to a desired onsite-to-offshore service delivery mix. To the extent that our services engagements involve an increasing number of consulting, production support, software package implementation or other services typically requiring a higher percentage of onsite resources, we may not be able to manage to our desired service delivery mix. Additionally, other factors like client constraint or preferences or our inability to manage engagements effectively with limited resources onsite, or difficulty in staffing onsite projects due to immigration issues, resource constraints, new and complex client engagements or other related factors, may result in a higher percentage of onsite resources than our desired service delivery mix. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to manage to our desired onsite-to-offshore service delivery mix. If we are unable to manage to our targeted service delivery mix, our gross margins may decline and our profitability may be reduced. Additionally, our costs will increase and we may not be able to offer competitive pricing to our clients which could result in lost opportunities or lost business. The international nature of our business exposes us to many complex risks, which may be beyond our control. We have operations in the United States, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, India, Sri Lanka, Germany, Singapore, Austria, Hungary and Malaysia and we serve clients across North America, Europe and Asia. For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, revenue generated outside of the United States accounted for 25%, 22% and 26% of total revenue, respectively. Our corporate structure also spans multiple jurisdictions, with Virtusa Corporation incorporated in Delaware and its operating subsidiaries organized in India, Sri Lanka, the United Kingdom, Hungary, Germany, Singapore, Austria, Malaysia and the Netherlands. As a result, our international revenue and operations are exposed to risks typically associated with conducting business internationally, many of which are beyond our control. These risks include: •negative currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which we conduct transactions, including most significantly, the U.K. pound sterling (in which our foreign revenue is principally denominated) and the Indian and Sri Lankan rupees (in which our foreign costs are primarily denominated) •adverse income tax consequences resulting from foreign income tax examination, such as challenges to our transfer pricing arrangements and challenges to our ability to claim tax holiday benefits in the countries in which we operate •difficulties in staffing, managing and supporting operations in multiple countries •potential fluctuation or decline in foreign economies •unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, including immigration restrictions, potential tariffs and other trade barriers 22 Table of Contents •legal uncertainty owing to the overlap of different legal regimes and problems in asserting contractual or other rights across international borders, including compliance with local laws of which we may be unaware •government currency control and restrictions on repatriation of earnings •the burden and expense of complying with the laws and regulations of various jurisdictions •domestic and international economic or political changes, hostilities, terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war Negative developments in any of these areas in one or more countries could result in a reduction in revenue or demand for our services, the cancellation or delay of client contracts, business interruption, threats to our intellectual property, difficulty in collecting receivables and a higher cost of doing business, including higher taxes, any of which could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our global operations expose us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements, and violation of these regulations could harm our business. We are subject to numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal regimes on matters as diverse as anti-corruption, import/export controls, content requirements, trade restrictions, tariffs, taxation, sanctions, immigration, internal and disclosure control obligations, securities regulation, anti-competition, data privacy and protection, employment and labor relations. Some of these legal regimes are in emerging markets where legal systems may be less developed or familiar to us. Compliance with diverse legal requirements is costly, time-consuming and requires significant resources. Violations of one or more of these regulations in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines, criminal sanctions against us or our officers, prohibitions on doing business and damage to our reputation. Violations of these regulations in connection with the performance of our obligations to our clients also could result in liability for significant monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity and other reputational damage, restrictions on our ability to process information and allegations by our clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations. Due to the varying degrees of development of the legal systems of the countries in which we operate, local laws may not be well developed or provide sufficiently clear guidance and may be insufficient to protect our rights. In particular, in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate and/or seek to expand, it is possible that our employees, subcontractors or agents in the local business community might not conform to international business standards and could violate anti-corruption laws, or regulations, including the UK Bribery Act of 2010 and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") which prohibits improper payments or offers of improper payments to foreign officials to obtain business or any other benefit. The FCPA also requires covered companies to make and keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect the transactions of the company and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. Although we have policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance, our employees, subcontractors and agents could take actions that violate these policies or procedures or applicable anti-corruption laws, regulations or standards. Violations of these laws or regulations by us, our employees or any of these third parties could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions (whether or not we participated or knew about the actions leading to the violations), including fines or penalties, disgorgement of profits and suspension or disqualification from work, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, including our results of operations and our reputation. 23 Table of Contents If we do not continue to maintain or improve our operational, financial and other internal controls and systems to manage our growth and size or if we are unable to enter, operate and compete effectively in new geographic markets, our business may suffer and the value of our stockholders' investment in our Company may be harmed. Our growth will continue to place significant demands on our management and other resources and will require us to continue to develop and improve our operational, financial and other internal controls in the United States, Europe, India, Sri Lanka and elsewhere. In particular, our continued growth will increase the challenges involved in: •recruiting, training and retaining technical, finance, marketing and management personnel with the knowledge, skills and experience that our business model requires •maintaining high levels of client satisfaction •developing and improving our internal administrative infrastructure and controls, particularly our financial, operational, communications and other internal systems and controls •preserving our culture, values and entrepreneurial environment •effectively managing our personnel and operations and effectively communicating to our personnel worldwide our core values, strategies and goals In addition, the increasing size and scope of our operations increase the possibility that a member of our personnel will engage in unlawful or fraudulent activity, breach our contractual obligations, or otherwise expose us to unacceptable business risks, despite our efforts to train our people and maintain internal controls to prevent such instances. If we do not continue to maintain and/or develop and implement the right processes and tools to manage our enterprise, our ability to compete successfully and achieve our business objectives could be impaired. As part of our growth strategy, we plan to continue expanding globally. We may not be able to compete effectively in these markets and the cost of entering these markets may be substantially greater than we expect. If we fail to compete effectively in the new markets we enter, or if the cost of entering those markets is substantially greater than we expect, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, if we cannot compete effectively, we may be required to reconsider our strategy to invest in our international expansion plans and change our intent on the repatriation of our earnings. Currency exchange rate fluctuations may materially and negatively affect our revenue, gross margin, operating margin, net income and cash flows. The exchange rates among the Indian and Sri Lankan rupees and the U.S. dollar and the U.K. pound sterling, as well as the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the U.K. pound sterling, have changed substantially in recent periods and may continue to fluctuate substantially in the future. We expect that a majority of our revenue will continue to be generated in the U.S. dollar and U.K. pound sterling for the foreseeable future. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, the U.K. pound sterling has shown less volatility than in previous years. However, future fluctuations in the exchange rate could have a materially negative impact on our revenue generated in the U.K. pound sterling, as well as on our operating income and net income. Any appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the U.K. pound sterling will likely have a negative impact on our revenue, operating income and net income. For the foreseeable future, we also expect that a significant portion of our expenses, including personnel costs and operating expenditures, will continue to be denominated in Indian and Sri Lankan rupees. Accordingly, any material appreciation of the Indian rupee or the Sri Lankan rupee against the U.S. dollar or U.K. pound sterling could have a material adverse effect on our cost of revenue, gross margins and net income, which may in turn have a negative impact on our business, operating results and financial condition and results of operations. Although we have entered into, and may continue to enter into, derivative contracts to mitigate the impact 24 Table of Contents of the fluctuation in the U.K. pound sterling and the Indian rupee, we cannot assure you that these hedges will be effective. These hedges may also cause us to forego certain benefits including benefits caused by depreciation of the Indian rupee with respect to our expenses or by a depreciation of the U.K. pound sterling with respect to our revenue. In addition, use of derivatives includes the risk of non-performance of the counterparty. We have also initiated an investment program (short to medium term currency deposits) in Asia where we hold investments in local currency. Accordingly, any material depreciation of the UK pound sterling, the Indian rupee or the Sri Lankan rupee against the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse impact on our cash balances when consolidated and translated into U.S. dollars. Our operating results may be adversely affected by our use of derivative financial instruments. There is no guarantee that our financial results will not be adversely affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations or that any efforts by us to engage in currency hedging activities will be effective. In addition, in some countries we could be subject to strict restrictions on the movement of cash and the exchange of foreign currencies, which could limit our ability to use this cash across our global operations. Although we have adopted a twelve quarter cash flow hedging program to minimize the effect of any Indian rupee fluctuation on our financial condition, these hedges may not be effective or may cause us to forego benefits, especially given the volatility of the currency. In addition, to the extent that these hedges cease to qualify for hedge accounting, we may have to recognize the derivative instruments unrealized gains or losses in earnings prior to maturity. If we are unable to accurately forecast our Indian-rupee denominated costs, we may lose our ability to qualify for hedge accounting. We cannot guarantee our ability to accurately forecast such expenses. Furthermore, we are exposed to foreign currency volatility related to the Canadian dollar, the euro, the Singapore dollar and the Sri Lankan rupee, which are not currently hedged. Any significant change as compared to the U.S. dollar could have a negative impact on our revenue, operating profit, and net income. Finally, as we continue to leverage our global delivery model, more of our expenses will be incurred in currencies other than those in which we bill for the related services. An increase in the value of these currencies, such as the Indian rupee or Sri Lankan rupee, against the U.S. dollar or U.K. pound sterling could increase costs for delivery of services at off-shore sites by increasing labor and other costs that are denominated in the respective local currency. In July 2010, Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act") which seeks to regulate, among other matters, the manner in which companies and their financial institutions engage in hedging activities. In addition, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the "CFTC") and the Securities and Exchange Commission have recently proposed rules to implement certain provisions of the of Dodd-Frank Act which, if enacted, may have a material and negative impact on the manner in which we are able to engage in hedging activities. For instance, certain proposed rules may require us to use cash or liquid investments (rather than a line of credit) to collateralize our hedging activities, which may require us to shift cash and cash equivalents freely available to us into restricted cash. Such requirement could become prohibitive and prevent us from continuing with our hedging program. Other proposed rules may also increase the costs of our hedging program, or may prevent us from working with our preferred banking institutions to effect these forward contracts or require us to clear these trades through a third party, each of which could materially increase our costs of operating our hedging program. While the proposed rules may change before enactment, if some of these rules are enacted, we can make no assurance that we will be able to continue to operate our hedging program, or if we are, on terms that are commercially viable to us. We could be subject to strict restrictions on the movement of cash and the exchange of foreign currencies which could limit our access to cash in non-U.S. locations to fund our U.S. operations or otherwise make investments where needed. In some countries, we could be subject to strict restrictions on the movement of cash and the exchange of foreign currencies, which would limit our ability to use this cash across our global operations. This risk 25 Table of Contents could increase as we continue our geographic expansion in emerging markets, which are more likely to impose these restrictions than more established markets. We therefore may not have ready access to cash in geographies where we need to make investments. For instance, at March 31, 2013, we had approximately $95 million of cash, cash equivalents, short term investments and long term investments of which we hold approximately $53 million of cash, cash equivalents and short term investments in non-U.S. locations, particularly in India, Sri Lanka and the United Kingdom. Cash in these non-U.S. locations may not otherwise be available for potential investment or use for operations in the United States or other geographies where needed, as we have stated that this cash is indefinitely reinvested in these non-U.S. locations. Moreover, even if we were to repatriate this cash back to the United States for use in U.S. investments, this cash would be subject to substantial taxes. Our inability to access our cash where and when needed could impede our ability to make investments and support our operations. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited and our failure to raise capital or have access to cash in the geography where or when needed could prevent us from growing. We anticipate that our current cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, together with cash generated from operations, will be sufficient to meet our current needs for general corporate purposes for the foreseeable future. However, we may also need additional financing to execute our current or future business strategies, including to: •acquire businesses or technologies or make strategic investments •add additional global delivery centers •procure additional capacity and facilities •hire additional personnel •enhance our operating infrastructure •otherwise respond to competitive pressures As a global company, we also may not have ready access to cash in geographies where we need to make these strategic or additional investments. For all of these reasons, we may need to raise additional capital for U.S. or other global investments. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be significantly diluted and these newly issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. If we incur additional debt financing, a substantial portion of our operating cash flow may be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness, thus limiting funds available for our business activities. Any such debt financing could require us to comply with restrictive financial and operating covenants, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, when we desire them, our ability to fund our operations and growth, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities or otherwise respond to competitive pressures may be significantly limited. 26 Table of Contents Acquisitions that we have completed and any future acquisitions, strategic investments, partnerships or alliances could be difficult to integrate and/or identify, divert the attention of key management personnel, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our financial results, including impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets. If we do identify suitable acquisition, strategic investment or partnership or alliance candidates, we may not be able to complete transactions on terms commercially acceptable to us, if at all. These types of transactions involve numerous risks, including: •difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, accounting and personnel •difficulties in supporting and transitioning clients of our acquired companies or strategic partners •diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations •risks of entering new markets •potential loss of key team members •inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset transaction costs •unknown liabilities Our organizational structure could make it difficult for us to efficiently integrate acquired businesses or technologies into our ongoing operations and assimilate employees of those businesses into our culture and operations. Accordingly, we might fail to realize the expected benefits or strategic objectives of any acquisition we undertake. Acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our financial results. We have completed three acquisitions from November 2009 to July 2011. In connection with these acquisitions, we are carrying $35.5 million in goodwill on our consolidated balance sheets at March 31, 2013. If we fail to successfully integrate these companies and maintain their value, or if these acquired companies materially fail to perform in a manner consistent with our valuations or forecasts, we may suffer an impairment of our assets, resulting in an immediate charge to our consolidated statement of income. Any such failure to integrate an acquired company or impairment of intangible assets or goodwill of any such company could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated balance sheet and consolidated statements of income. It is also possible that we may not identify suitable acquisition, strategic investment or partnership or alliance candidates. Our inability to identify suitable acquisition targets, strategic investments, partners or alliances, or our inability to complete such transactions, may negatively affect our competitiveness and growth prospects. Moreover, if we fail to properly evaluate acquisitions, alliances or investments, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such transaction and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. We may be subject to certain liabilities assumed in connection with our acquisitions that could harm our operating results. Although we conduct due diligence in connection with each of our acquisitions, there may be liabilities that we fail to discover or that we inadequately assess in our due diligence efforts. In particular, to the extent that any acquired businesses or properties failed to comply with or otherwise violated applicable laws or regulations, or failed to fulfill their contractual obligations to clients, we, as the successor owner, may be financially responsible for these violations and failures and may suffer reputational harm or otherwise be adversely affected. While we generally require the selling party to indemnify us for any and all liabilities associated with such liabilities, if for any reason the seller does not perform their indemnification obligation, we may be held responsible for such liabilities. In addition, as part of an acquisition, we may assume responsibilities and obligations of the acquired business pursuant to 27 Table of Contents the terms and conditions of services agreements entered into by the acquired entity that are not consistent with the terms and conditions that we typically accept and require. Although we attempt to structure acquisitions in such a manner as to minimize the liability that could arise from such contractual commitments, we cannot assure you that any of our efforts to minimize the liability will be effective in all instances or will otherwise protect us from liability for damages under such agreements. The discovery of any material liabilities associated with our acquisitions for which we are unable to receive indemnification could harm our operating results. We may face damage to our professional reputation if our services do not meet our clients' expectations. Many of our projects involve technology applications or systems that are critical to the operations of our clients' businesses and handle very large volumes of transactions. If we fail to perform our services correctly, we may be unable to deliver applications or systems to our clients with the promised functionality or within the promised time frame, or to satisfy the required service levels for support and maintenance. If a client is not satisfied with our services or products, including those of subcontractors we employ, we may not be able to invoice for our services, or if we do invoice, we may not be able to collect the fees due on such engagements, and our business may suffer. Moreover, if we fail to meet our contractual obligations, our clients may terminate their contracts and we could face legal liabilities and increased costs, including warranty claims against us. Any failure in a client's project could result in a claim for substantial damages, our inability to recognize all or some of the revenue for the client project, non-payment of outstanding invoices, increased expenses due to increase in reserves for doubtful accounts, loss of future business with such client and increased costs due to non-billable time of our resources dedicated to address any performance or client satisfaction issues, regardless of our responsibility for such failure. If we are unable to collect our receivables from, or bill our unbilled services to, our clients, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe us for work performed. We evaluate the financial condition of our clients and usually bill and collect on relatively short cycles. We maintain allowances against receivables and unbilled services. Actual losses on client balances could differ from those that we currently anticipate and, as a result, we might need to adjust our allowances. There is no guarantee that we will accurately assess the creditworthiness of our clients. Macroeconomic conditions, such as the continued credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system, could also result in financial difficulties, including limited access to the credit markets, insolvency or bankruptcy, for our clients, and, as a result, could cause clients to delay payments to us, request modifications to their payment arrangements that could increase our receivables balance, or default on their payment obligations to us. Timely collection of client balances also depends on our ability to complete our contractual commitments and bill and collect our contracted revenues. If we are unable to meet our contractual requirements, we might experience delays in collection of and/or be unable to collect our client balances, and if this occurs, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, if we experience an increase in the time to bill and collect for our services, our cash flows could be adversely affected. We are investing substantial cash in new facilities and our profitability could be reduced if our business does not grow proportionately. We intend to make increased investments in our existing global delivery centers in Hyderabad and Chennai, India and Colombo, Sri Lanka and other delivery centers globally. We may face cost overruns and project delays in connection with these facilities or other facilities we may construct or seek to lease in the future. Such delays may also cause us to incur additional leasing costs to extend the terms of existing facility leases or to enter into new short-term leases if we cannot move into the new facilities in a timely manner. Such investment may also significantly increase our fixed costs, including an increase in depreciation expense. If we are unable to expand our business and revenue proportionately, our profitability would be reduced. 28 Table of Contents We may lose revenue if our clients terminate, reduce, or delay their contracts with us. Our clients typically retain us on a non-exclusive, engagement-by-engagement basis, rather than under exclusive long-term contracts. Many of our contracts for services have terms of less than 12 months and permit our clients to terminate or reduce our engagements on prior written notice of 90 days or less for convenience, and without termination-related penalties. Further, many large client projects typically involve multiple independently defined stages, and clients may choose not to retain us for additional stages of a project or cancel or delay their start dates. These terminations, reductions, cancellations or delays could result from factors unrelated to our work product or the progress of the project, including: •client financial difficulties or general or industry specific economic downturns •a change in a client's strategic priorities, resulting in a reduced level of IT spending •a client's demand for price reductions •a change in a client's outsourcing strategy that shifts work to in-house IT departments or to our competitors •consolidation by or among clients or an acquisition of a client •replacement by our client of existing software to packaged software supported by licensors If our contracts were terminated early, materially delayed or reduced in size or scope, our business and operating results could be materially harmed and the value of our common stock could be impaired. Unexpected terminations, reductions, cancellation or delays in our client engagements could also result in increased operating expenses as we transition our team members to other engagements. We may not be able to continue to maintain or increase the profitability, and growth rates of previous fiscal years. We may not succeed in maintaining our profitability and could incur losses in future periods. If we experience declines in demand, declines in, or inability to raise, pricing for our services, or if wages in India or Sri Lanka continue to increase at a faster rate than in the United States and the United Kingdom, we will be faced with continued growing costs for our IT professionals, including wage increases. We also expect to continue to make investments in infrastructure, facilities, sales and marketing and other resources as we expand, thus incurring additional costs and potentially reducing our operating margins. If our revenue does not increase to offset these increases in costs or operating expenses, our operating results would be negatively affected. In fact, in future quarters we may not have any revenue growth and our revenue and net income could decline. You should not consider our historic revenue and net income growth rates as indicative of future growth rates. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or increase our profitability in the future. Our profitability is dependent on our billing and utilization rates, which may be negatively affected by various factors. Our profit margin is largely a function of the rates we are able to charge for our services and the utilization rate of our IT professionals. The rates we are able to charge for our services are affected by a number of factors, including: •our clients' perception of our ability to add value through our services •the introduction of new services or products by us or our competitors •the size and/or duration of the engagement •the pricing policies of our competitors •our ability to charge premium prices when justified by market demand or type of skill set or service 29 Table of Contents •general economic conditions In addition, the factors impacting our utilization rate, include: •our ability to transition team members quickly from completed or terminated projects to new engagements •our ability to maintain continuity of existing resources on existing projects •our ability to obtain visas or applicable work permits for offshore personnel to commence projects at a client site for new or existing engagements •the amount of time spent by our team members on non-billable training activities •our ability to maintain resources who are appropriately skilled for specific projects •our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain an appropriate number of team members •our ability to manage team member attrition seasonal trends, primarily our hiring cycle, holidays and vacations •the number of campus hires If we are not able to maintain the rates we charge for our services or maintain an appropriate utilization rate for our IT professionals, our revenue will decline, our costs will increase and we will not be able to sustain or increase our gross or operating profit margins, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. We may be required to spend substantial time and expense in a fiscal period before we can recognize revenue in such fiscal period, if any, from a client contract. The period between our initial contact with a potential client and the execution of a client contract for our services is lengthy, and can extend over one or more fiscal quarters. To sell our services successfully and obtain an executed client contract, we generally have to educate our potential clients about the use and benefits of our services, which can require significant time, expense and capital without the ability to realize revenue, if any. If our sales cycle unexpectedly lengthens for one or more large projects, it would negatively affect the timing of our revenue, and hinder our revenue growth. Furthermore, a delay in our ability to obtain a signed agreement or other persuasive evidence of an arrangement or to complete certain contract requirements in a particular fiscal quarter could reduce our revenue in that period. These delays or failures can cause our gross margin and profitability to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Overall, any significant failure to generate or recognize revenue or delays in recognizing revenue after incurring costs related to our sales processes or services performed in a particular fiscal period, due to factors such as lack of a fully executed agreement with the client, failure to satisfy other elements of generally accepted accounting standards for revenue recognition or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations in such fiscal period or otherwise. We may not be able to recognize revenue in the period in which our services are performed, which may cause our revenue and margins to fluctuate. Our services are performed under both time-and-material and fixed-price arrangements. All revenue is recognized pursuant to generally accepted accounting standards. These standards require us to recognize revenue once evidence of an arrangement has been obtained, services are delivered, fees are fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. If we perform our services prior to the period when we are able to recognize the associated revenue, which may be due to our failure to obtain fully executed 30 Table of Contents contracts from our clients during the performance period of our services, our revenue and margins may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Additionally, a portion of our revenue is obtained from fixed-price arrangements with our clients. Payment of our fees on fixed-price contracts is based on our ability to provide deliverables on certain dates or meet certain defined milestones. Our failure to produce the deliverables or meet the project milestones in accordance with agreed upon specifications or timelines, or otherwise meet a client's expectations, may result in non-payment of invoices, termination of engagements and our having to record the cost related to the performance of services in the period that services were rendered, but delay the timing of revenue recognition to a future period in which the milestone is met, if we are able to achieve such milestone at all. Unexpected costs or delays could make our contracts unprofitable. A portion of our client engagements represent fixed- price engagements. When making proposals for engagements, especially our fixed-price engagements, we estimate the costs and timing for completion of the projects. These estimates reflect our best judgment regarding the efficiencies of our methodologies, staffing of resources, complexities of the engagement and costs. The profitability of our engagements, and in particular our fixed-price contracts, may be adversely affected by our ability to accurately estimate effort and resources needed to complete the project, increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of these engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, which could make these contracts less profitable or unprofitable. If we underestimate the effort and resources required to complete a project and cannot recoup additional costs from our client, or if we endure additional costs or delays, and cannot complete the project, our utilization rates may lower as we remediate project issues, our profit from these engagements may be adversely affected and we may be subject to litigation claims. Our quarterly financial position, revenue, operating results and profitability are challenging to predict and may vary from quarter to quarter, which could cause our share price to decline significantly. Our quarterly revenue, operating results and profitability have varied in the past and are likely to vary significantly from quarter to quarter in the future. The factors that are likely to cause these variations include: •unanticipated contract or project terminations, or reductions in scope or size of IT engagements •the continuing financial stability and growth prospects of our clients •our ability to recognize the revenue associated with the services performed in the applicable fiscal period due to factors, including having fully signed contractual agreements with our clients for such periods or our ability to produce the deliverables or meet the project milestones in accordance with agreed upon specifications or timelines in the applicable fiscal period •general economic conditions •the number, timing, scope and contractual terms of IT projects in which we are engaged •delays in project commencement or staffing delays due to immigration issues or our inability to assign appropriately skilled or experienced personnel •the accuracy of estimates of resources, time and fees required to complete fixed-price projects and costs incurred in the performance of each project •changes in pricing in response to client demand and competitive pressures •the mix of onsite and offshore staffing 31 Table of Contents •the mix of leadership and senior technical resources to junior engineering resources staffed on each project •unexpected changes in the utilization rate of our IT professionals •seasonal trends, primarily our hiring cycle and the budget and work cycles of our clients •the ratio of fixed-price contracts to time-and-materials contracts •employee wage levels and increases in compensation costs, including timing of promotions and annual pay increases, particularly in India and Sri Lanka •our ability to have the client reimburse us for travel and living expenses, especially the airfare and related expenses of our Indian and Sri Lankan offshore personnel traveling and working onsite in the United States or the United Kingdom •one-time, non-recurring projects As a result, our revenue and our operating results for a particular period are challenging to predict and may decline in comparison to corresponding prior periods regardless of the strength of our business. Our future revenue is also challenging to predict because we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from fees for services generated from short-term contracts that may be terminated or delayed by our clients without penalty. In addition, a high percentage of our operating expenses, particularly related to salary expense, rent, depreciation expense and amortization of purchased intangible assets, are relatively fixed in advance of any particular quarter and are based, in part, on our expectations as to future revenue. If we are unable to predict the timing or amounts of future revenue accurately, we may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall and fail to meet our forecasts. Unexpected revenue shortfalls may also decrease our gross margins and could cause significant changes in our operating results from quarter to quarter. As a result, and in addition to the factors listed above, any of the following factors could have a significant and adverse impact on our operating results, could result in a shortfall of revenue and could result in losses to us: •a client's decision not to pursue a new project or proceed to succeeding stages of a current project •the completion during a quarter of several major client projects resulting in our having to pay underutilized team members in subsequent periods •adverse business decisions of our clients regarding the use of our services •our inability to transition team members quickly from completed projects to new engagements •our inability to manage costs, including personnel, infrastructure, facility and support services costs •exchange rate fluctuations Due to the foregoing factors, it is possible that in some future periods our revenue and operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, the trading price of our common stock could fall substantially either suddenly, or over time, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Adverse or uncertain conditions in the global economy and disruption of financial markets could negatively impact our clients and therefore our results of operations. Recent global economic conditions have negatively impacted financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia, resulting in extreme disruption and volatility in recent periods of financial markets, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of certain investments. These adverse economic developments affect our clients in a number of ways and could result in decreased 32 Table of Contents global IT spending which, in turn, could result in delays, reductions in, or cancellation of engagements for our services. Regional and global economic weakness and uncertainty have also resulted in some companies reassessing their spending for technology and IT related projects and services. Our revenue and profitability depend on the overall demand for IT services from our clients, including discretionary IT spending. Portions of our expenses are fixed and other expenses are tied to expected levels of utilization. To the extent that we do not achieve anticipated levels of revenue growth, our gross profit and net income could be adversely affected until such expenses are reduced to an appropriate level. A significant or prolonged economic downturn in the IT services industry, or industries in which we focus, may result in our clients reducing or postponing spending on the services we offer. Our revenue is dependent on us entering into large contracts for our services with a limited number of clients each year. As we are not the exclusive IT service provider for our clients, the volume of work that we perform for any specific client is likely to vary from year to year. There are a number of factors, other than our performance, that could affect the size, frequency and renewal rates of our client contracts. For instance, if economic conditions weaken or deteriorate in the IT services industry, or in any industry in which we focus, our clients may reduce or postpone their IT spending significantly which may, in turn, lower the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenue and profitability. As a way of dealing with a challenging economic environment, clients may change their outsourcing strategy by performing more work in-house or replacing their existing software with packaged software supported by the licensor. The loss of, or any significant decline in business from, one or more of our major clients likely would lead to a significant decline in our revenue and operating margins, particularly if we are unable to make corresponding reductions in our expenses in the event of any such loss or decline. Moreover, a significant change in the liquidity or financial position of any of these clients could have a material adverse effect on the collectability of our accounts receivable, liquidity and future operating results. We may be audited by software vendors from whom we license or use their software to train our resources or serve our clients, which may result in claims for infringement, violations of license provisions or other damages. From time to time, we are subject to audit by our vendors from whom we license and use software to confirm compliance with usage and deployment requirements. If as a result of these audits or otherwise, vendors believe that we have committed usage or deployment violations, we may be required to purchase software from these vendors, and we may be subject to claims of infringement or wrongful usage which may result in legal liability to us, including damages, legal fees and expenses. In addition to legal liability and related expense of any litigation, which may include damages and the obligations to purchase software from such software vendor, we may be prevented from using the vendor's software in the future which may have a material and negative impact on our ability to service our customers, conduct training of our IT professionals and generally perform our services. Negative public perception in the markets in which we sell services regarding offshore IT service providers and proposed anti-outsourcing legislation may adversely affect demand for our services. We have based our growth strategy on certain assumptions regarding our industry, services and future demand in the market for such services. However, the trend to outsource IT services may not continue and could reverse. Offshore outsourcing is a politically sensitive topic in the United States and the United Kingdom. For example, recently many organizations and public figures in the United States and the United Kingdom have publicly expressed concern about a perceived association between offshore outsourcing providers and the loss of jobs in their home countries. In addition, there has been recent publicity about the negative experience of certain companies that use offshore outsourcing, particularly in India. Current or prospective clients may elect to perform such services themselves or may be discouraged from transferring these services from onshore to offshore providers to avoid negative perceptions that may be associated with using an offshore provider. Any slowdown or reversal of existing industry trends towards 33 Table of Contents offshore outsourcing would seriously harm our ability to compete effectively with competitors that operate out of facilities located in the United States or the United Kingdom. Legislation in the United States or in certain European countries may be enacted that is intended to discourage or restrict outsourcing. Any changes to existing laws or the enactment of new legislation restricting offshore outsourcing in the United States or the United Kingdom may adversely affect our ability to do business in the United States or in the United Kingdom, particularly if these changes are widespread, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our failure to anticipate rapid changes in technology may negatively affect demand for our services in the marketplace. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop and implement business and technology solutions that anticipate rapid and continuing changes in technology, industry standards and client preferences. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments on a timely basis, which may negatively affect demand for our solutions in the marketplace. Also, if our competitors respond faster than we do to changes in technology, industry standards and client preferences, we may lose business and our services may become less competitive or obsolete. Any one or a combination of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain and successfully complete client engagements. We may not be able to obtain, develop or implement new systems, infrastructure, procedures and controls that are required to support our operations, maintain cost controls, market our services and manage our relationships with our clients. To manage our operations effectively, we must continue to maintain and may need to enhance our IT infrastructure, financial and accounting systems and controls and manage expanded operations in several locations. We also must attract, integrate, train and retain qualified personnel, especially in the areas of accounting, internal audit and financial disclosure. Further, we will need to manage our relationships with various clients, vendors and other third parties. We may not be able to develop and implement on a timely basis, if at all, the systems, infrastructure procedures and controls required to support our operations, including infrastructure management, and controls regarding usage and deployment of hardware and software, for performance of our services. Any failure by us to comply with these controls or our contractual obligations could result in legal liability to us, which would have a negative impact on our consolidated statements of income and consolidated balance sheets. Additionally, some factors, like changes in immigration laws or visa processing restrictions that limit our ability to engage offshore resources at client locations in the United States, the United Kingdom or other countries, are outside of our control. Our future operating results will also depend on our ability to develop and maintain a successful sales organization and processes that can ensure our ability to effectively monitor, manage and forecast our sales activities and resource needs. If we are unable to manage our operations effectively, our operating results could fluctuate from quarter to quarter and our financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The failure to successfully and timely implement certain financial system changes to improve operating efficiency and enhance our reporting controls could harm our business. We have implemented and continue to install several upgrades and enhancements to our financial systems. We expect these initiatives to enable us to achieve greater operating and financial reporting efficiency and also enhance our existing control environment through increased levels of automation of certain processes. Failure to successfully implement and execute these initiatives in a timely, effective and efficient manner could significantly increase our costs, distract our management and could result in the disruption of our operations, the inability to comply with our Sarbanes-Oxley obligations and the inability to report our financial results in a timely and accurate manner. 34 Table of Contents Interruptions or delays in service from our third-party providers could impair our global delivery model, which could result in client dissatisfaction and a reduction of our revenue. We depend upon third parties to provide a high speed network of active voice and data communications 24 hours per day and various satellite and optical links between our global delivery centers and our clients. Consequently, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems with the equipment or at the facilities of these third-party providers could result in unanticipated interruptions in the delivery of our services. For example, we may not be able to maintain active voice and data communications between our global delivery centers and our clients' sites at all times due to disruptions in these networks, system failures or virus attacks. Any significant loss in our ability to communicate or any impediments to any IT professional's ability to provide services to our clients could result in a disruption to our business, which could hinder our performance or our ability to complete client projects in a timely manner. This, in turn, could lead to substantial liability to our clients, client dissatisfaction, loss of revenue and a material adverse effect on our business, our operating results and financial condition. We cannot assure you that our business interruption insurance will adequately compensate our clients or us for losses that may occur. Even if covered by insurance, any failure or breach of security of our systems could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. Some of our client contracts contain restrictions or penalty provisions that, if triggered, could result in lower future revenue and decrease our profitability. We have entered in the past, and may in the future enter, into contracts that contain restrictions or penalty provisions that, if triggered, may adversely affect our operating results. For instance, some of our client contracts provide that, during the term of the contract and for a certain period thereafter ranging from six to twelve months, we may not use the same personnel to provide similar services to any of the client's competitors. This restriction may hamper our ability to compete for and provide services to clients in the same industry. In addition, some contracts contain provisions that would require us to pay penalties or liquidated damages to our clients if we do not meet pre-agreed service level requirements. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our future revenue and profitability under these contracts could be materially harmed. Our services may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which may subject us to legal liability, harm our reputation, prevent us from offering some services to our clients or distract management. We cannot be sure that our services or the deliverables that we develop and create for our clients do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties and infringement claims may be asserted against us or our clients. These claims may harm our reputation, distract management, increase costs and prevent us from offering some services to our clients. Historically, we have generally agreed to indemnify our clients for all expenses and liabilities resulting from infringement of intellectual property rights of third parties based on the services and deliverables that we have performed and provided to our clients. In some instances, the amount of these indemnities may be greater than the revenue we receive from the client. In addition, as a result of intellectual property litigation, we may be required to stop selling, incorporating or using products that use or incorporate the infringed intellectual property. We may be required to obtain a license or pay a royalty to make, sell or use the relevant technology from the owner of the infringed intellectual property. Such licenses or royalties may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We may also be required to redesign our services or change our methodologies so as not to use the infringed intellectual property, which may not be technically or commercially feasible and may cause us to expend significant resources. Subject to certain limitations, under our indemnification obligations to our clients, we may also have to provide refunds to our clients to the extent that we must require them to cease using an infringing deliverable if we are unable to provide a work around or acquire a license to permit use of the infringing deliverable that we had provided to them as part of a service engagement. If we are 35 Table of Contents obligated to make any such refunds or dedicate time to provide alternatives or acquire a license to the infringing intellectual property, our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Any claims or litigation involving intellectual property, whether we ultimately win or lose, could be extremely time-consuming, costly and injure our reputation. As the number of patents, copyrights and other intellectual property rights in our industry increases, we believe that companies in our industry will face more frequent infringement claims. Defending against these claims, even if the claims have no merit, may not be covered by or could exceed the protection offered by our insurance and could divert management's attention and resources from operating our company. We may face liability if we breach our obligations related to the protection, security, and nondisclosure of confidential client information. In the course of providing services to our clients, we may have access to confidential client information, including nonpublic personal data. We are bound by certain agreements to use and disclose this information in a manner consistent with the privacy standards under regulations applicable to our clients and are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign jurisdiction laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as the European Union Directive on Data Protection and various U.S. federal and state laws governing the protection of health or other individually identifiable information. If any person, including a team member of ours, misappropriates client confidential information, or if client confidential information is inappropriately disclosed due to a security breach of our computer systems, system failures or otherwise, or if a security breach occurs on a project on which we are engaged, we may have substantial liabilities to our clients or our clients' customers and may incur substantial liability and penalties in connection with any violation of applicable privacy laws and/or criminal prosecution. In addition, in the event of any breach or alleged breach of our confidentiality agreements with our clients, these clients may terminate their engagements with us or sue us for breach of contract, resulting in the associated loss of revenue and increased costs and damaged reputation. We may also be subject to civil or criminal liability if we are deemed to have violated applicable regulations. We cannot assure you that we will adequately address the risks created by the regulations to which we may be contractually obligated to abide. In addition, many of our agreements with our clients do not include any limitation on our liability to them with respect to breaches of our obligation to keep the information we receive from them confidential. Although we have general liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors or omissions, there can be no assurance that coverage will continue to be available on reasonable terms or will be sufficient in amount to cover one or more large claims, or that the insurer will not disclaim coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage or changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our contractual limitations on liability with our clients and third parties may not be enforceable. Under a majority of our agreements with our clients, our liability for breach of certain of our obligations is generally limited to actual damages suffered by the client and is typically capped at the greater of an agreed amount or the fees paid or payable to us for a period of time under the relevant agreement. These limitations and caps on liability may be unenforceable or otherwise may not protect us from liability for damages. In addition, certain liabilities, such as claims of third parties for which we may be required to indemnify our clients or liability for breaches of confidentiality, are generally not limited under those agreements. Our agreements are governed by laws of multiple jurisdictions, therefore the interpretation of such provisions, and the availability of defenses to us, may vary, which may contribute to the uncertainty as to the scope of our potential liability. In addition, many of our agreements with our 36 Table of Contents clients do not include any limitation on our liability to them with respect to breaches of our obligation to keep the information we receive from them confidential. New and changing corporate governance and public disclosure requirements add uncertainty to our compliance policies and increase our costs of, and time dedicated to, compliance. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, other SEC regulations, and the NASDAQ Global Select Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies like ours. These laws, regulations and standards may lack specificity and are subject to varying interpretations. Their application in practice may evolve over time, as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs of compliance as a result of ongoing revisions to such corporate governance standards. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors' audit of that assessment requires the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. We consistently assess the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, remediate any control deficiencies that may be identified, and validate through testing that our controls are functioning as documented. While we do not anticipate any material weaknesses, the inability of management and our independent auditor to provide us with an unqualified report as to the adequacy and effectiveness, respectively, of our internal controls over financial reporting for future year ends could result in adverse consequences to us, including, but not limited to, a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline. Our management team and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. In particular, these obligations will require substantial attention from our senior management and divert its attention away from the day-to-day management of our business, which could materially and adversely affect our business operations. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, and our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards in this regard have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In addition, the laws, regulations and standards regarding corporate governance may make it more difficult for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. Further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with their performance of duties. As a result, we may face difficulties attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. If we fail to comply with new or changed laws, regulations or standards of corporate governance, our business and reputation may be harmed. Our share price could be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain effective internal controls. The accuracy of our financial reporting is dependent on the effectiveness of our internal controls. We are required to provide a report from management to our stockholders on our internal control over financial reporting that includes an assessment of the effectiveness of these controls. Internal control over financial reporting has inherent limitations, including human error, the possibility that controls could be circumvented or become inadequate because of changed conditions, and fraud. Because of these inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting might not prevent or detect all misstatements or fraud. If we cannot maintain and execute adequate internal control over financial reporting or implement required new or improved controls to ensure the reliability of the financial reporting and preparation of our financial statements for external use, we could suffer harm to our reputation, fail to meet our public 37 Table of Contents reporting requirements on a timely basis, or be unable to properly report on our business and the results of our operations, and the market price of our securities could be materially adversely affected. The loss of key members of our senior management team may prevent us from executing our business strategy. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service and performance of key members of our senior management team. Our growth and success depends to a significant extent on our ability to retain Kris Canekeratne, our chief executive officer, who is a founder of our company and has led the growth, operation, culture and strategic direction of our business since its inception. The loss of his services or the services of other key members of our senior management could seriously harm our ability to execute our business strategy. Although we have entered into agreements with our executive officers providing for severance and change in control benefits to them, each of our executive officers or other key employees could terminate employment with us at any time. We also may have to incur significant costs in identifying, hiring, training and retaining replacements for key employees. The loss of any member of our senior management team might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business or development objectives and could materially harm our business. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our team members. Risks related to our Indian and Sri Lankan operations Political instability or changes in the central or state government in India could result in the change of several policies relating to foreign direct investment and repatriation of capital and dividends. Further, changes in the monetary and economic policies could adversely affect economic conditions in India generally and our business in particular. We have three subsidiaries in India and a significant portion of our business, fixed assets and human resources are located in India. As a result, our business is affected by foreign exchange rates and controls, interest rates, local regulations, changes in government policy, taxation, social and civil unrest and other political, economic or other developments in or affecting India. Since 1991, successive Indian governments have pursued policies of economic liberalization. In the past, the Indian economy has experienced many of the problems that commonly confront the economies of developing countries, including high inflation, erratic gross domestic product growth and shortages of foreign exchange. The Indian government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over many aspects of the Indian economy and Indian government actions concerning the economy could have a material adverse effect on private sector entities like us. In the past, the Indian government has provided significant tax incentives and relaxed certain regulatory restrictions in order to encourage foreign investment in specified sectors of the economy, including the software development services industry. Programs that have benefited us include, among others, tax holidays, liberalized import and export duties and preferential rules on foreign investment and repatriation. Notwithstanding these benefits, as noted above, India's central and state governments remain significantly involved in the Indian economy as regulators. In recent years, the Indian government has introduced non-income related taxes, including the fringe benefit tax (which was repealed as of April 1, 2009) and new service taxes, and income-related taxes, including the Minimum Alternative Tax. In addition, a change in government leadership in India or change in policies of the existing government in India that results in the elimination of any of the benefits realized by us from our Indian operations or the imposition of new taxes applicable to such operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For instance, certain changes to the application of the Minimum Alternative Tax with respect to Special Economic Zone ("SEZ") units may negatively impact our cash flows and other benefits enjoyed by us which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 38 Table of Contents Changes in the policies or political stability of the government of Sri Lanka adversely affect economic conditions in Sri Lanka, which could adversely affect our business. Our subsidiary in Sri Lanka has been approved as an export computer software developer by the Board of Investment in Sri Lanka, which is a statutory body organized to facilitate foreign investment into Sri Lanka and grant concessions and benefits to entities with which it has entered into agreements. Pursuant to our current agreement with the Board of Investment, our subsidiary is entitled to an exemption from income taxation on export revenue for a period of 12 years expiring on March 31, 2019 provided that certain job creation requirements are met by March 31, 2013. We believe we have achieved the job creation criteria and have notified the Sri Lanka Board of Investment ("BOI"). The BOI on review could challenge our hiring commitments in which case we would have to forego part of the 12 year tax holiday. Further, government policies relating to taxation other than on income would also have an impact on the subsidiary, and the political, economic or social factors in Sri Lanka may affect these policies. Historically, past incumbent governments have followed policies of economic liberalization. However, we cannot assure you that the current government or future governments will continue these liberal policies. Regional conflicts or terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war in the United States, the United Kingdom, India and Sri Lanka, or other regions could adversely affect financial markets, resulting in loss of client confidence and our ability to serve our clients which, in turn, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The Asian region has from time to time experienced instances of civil unrest and hostilities among neighboring countries, including between India and Pakistan. Since May 1999, military confrontations between India and Pakistan have occurred in Kashmir. Also, there have been military hostilities and civil unrest in Iraq and Afghanistan. Terrorist attacks, such as the ones that occurred in Boston on April 15, 2013, New York and Washington, D.C., on September 11, 2001, New Delhi on December 13, 2001, Bali on October 12, 2002, London on July 7, 2005, and Mumbai on November 26, 2008, civil or political unrest and military hostilities in Sri Lanka and other acts of violence or war, including those involving India, Sri Lanka, the United States, the United Kingdom or other countries, may adversely affect U.S., U.K. and worldwide financial markets. Prospective clients may wish to visit several of our facilities, including our global delivery centers in India or Sri Lanka, prior to reaching a decision on vendor selection. Terrorist threats, attacks and international conflicts could make travel more difficult and cause potential clients to delay, postpone or cancel decisions to use our services. In addition, such attacks may have an adverse impact on our ability to operate effectively and interrupt lines of communication and restrict our offshore resources from traveling onsite to client locations, effectively curtailing our ability to deliver our services to our clients. These obstacles may increase our expenses and negatively affect our operating results. In addition, military activity, terrorist attacks, political tensions between India and Pakistan and, historically, conflicts within Sri Lanka, despite the current cessation of hostilities, could create a greater perception that the acquisition of services from companies with significant Indian or Sri Lankan operations involves a higher degree of risk that could adversely affect client confidence in India or Sri Lanka as a software development center, each of which would have a material adverse effect on our business. In May 2009, the Sri Lankan government claimed victory in the ethnic conflict against the Tamil Tigers in Sri Lanka. The many years of the ethnic conflict have substantially affected the political and economic climate of Sri Lanka. With the military conflict now ended, the Sri Lankan economy may benefit from increased tourism, foreign investment and overall political stability. With economic growth and stability, the Sri Lankan currency may appreciate and there may be increased diversification in job opportunities for the Sri Lankan workforce. If the Sri Lankan rupee appreciates, our costs of operations may increase. In addition, if the Sri Lankan labor pool gains a growing number of alternatives due to an expanding and diversifying local economy, we may encounter increased competition and costs in recruiting, hiring and retaining qualified resources as well as the impact of wage inflation, each of which could have a negative impact on our costs of revenue and margins. 39 Table of Contents Our net income may decrease if the governments of the United States, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, India, Sri Lanka, Germany, Singapore, or Hungary adjust the amount of our taxable income by challenging our transfer pricing policies. Our subsidiaries conduct intercompany transactions among themselves and with the U.S. parent company on an arm's-length basis in accordance with U.S. and local country transfer pricing regulations. The jurisdictions in which we operate could challenge our determination of arm's-length profit and issue tax assessments. Although the United States has income tax treaties with all countries in which we have operations, which should alleviate the risk of double taxation, the costs to appeal any such tax assessment and potential interest and penalties could decrease our earnings and cash flows. The Indian taxing authorities issued assessment orders for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2004 to March 31, 2008 of our Indian subsidiary, Virtusa (India) Private Ltd. ("Virtusa India"). At issue in these assessments were several matters, the most significant of which was the re-determination of the arm's-length profit related to intercompany transactions. For fiscal year ended March 31, 2004 and 2005, we contested both assessments and also filed appeals with Indian tax authorities and U.S. Competent Authorities. Although we have settled certain tax obligations for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2004 and 2005, we have appealed certain other tax related matters effecting our fiscal year ended March 31, 2004 and 2005 with the Indian tax authorities. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005, we have appealed the redetermination of arm length pricing for transactions with our U.K subsidiary. We continue to appeal the remaining fiscal years assessments with the Indian tax authorities. If we do not prevail in our appeals, we may incur an additional legal liability and obligations to pay additional interest, penalties and costs related to such matters. Our net income may decrease if the governments of India or Sri Lanka levy new taxes or reduce or withdraw tax benefits and other incentives provided to us. Virtusa India is an export-oriented company under the Indian Income Tax Act of 1961 and is entitled to claim tax exemption for each Software Technology Park ("STP"), which it operates. Virtusa India historically has operated STPs in Hyderabad and in Chennai. The income tax benefits of the STP in Hyderabad and Chennai expired on March 31, 2010 and 2011, respectively. Historically, however, substantially all of the earnings of both STPs qualified as tax-exempt export profits. Although we believe we have complied with and were eligible for the STP holidays, the government of India may deem us ineligible for the STP holiday or make adjustments to the profit level in previous tax years, subject to the applicable statute of limitations, which could result in additional legal liability, including obligations to pay additional taxes, penalties, interest and other costs arising out of such matter. For instance, the Indian taxing authorities issued an assessment order for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006 and 2007 of Virtusa India related to the denial of all STP benefits for our Chennai STP on the basis that it was formed by the splitting up or the reconstruction of our Hyderabad STP. Although we have filed appeals with the appropriate Indian tax authorities, we may incur additional legal liability and obligations to pay additional interest, penalties and costs related to such matter. We have appealed such assessment but we can make no assurance that our appeal will be successful. We have located a portion of our Indian operations in areas designated as a SEZ, under the SEZ Act of 2005. In particular, we are continuing our construction of a facility on a 6.3 acre parcel of land in Hyderabad, India that has been designated as a SEZ. In addition, we have leased space and operate in a SEZ designated locations in Bangalore and Chennai, India. Although our profits from the SEZ operations would be eligible for certain income tax exemptions for a period up to 15 years, we may not be able to take full advantage of the tax holidays in each SEZ if we are not able to grow our operations, including the hiring of IT professionals into the SEZ facilities and there is no guarantee that we will secure SEZ status for any other future locations in India. Additionally, the government of India may deem us ineligible for a SEZ holiday or make adjustments to the transfer pricing profit levels resulting in an overall increase in our effective tax rate. 40 Table of Contents In addition, our Sri Lankan subsidiary, Virtusa Private Ltd. ("Virtusa SL"), was approved as an export computer software developer by the Sri Lanka Board of Investment ("BOI") in 1998 and has been granted a tax holiday. Virtusa SL has negotiated various extensions and new arrangements of the original holiday period in exchange for further capital investments in Sri Lanka facilities. The most recent 12-year tax holiday agreement, which is set to expire on March 31, 2019, requires that we meet certain new job creation and investment criteria. As of March 31, 2013, we have met the job creation target. We have submitted the required details to BOI and awaiting their confirmation. At March 31, 2013, we are eligible for the entire 12-year tax holiday. Further, in relation to the two year tax holiday extension granted for the period ending March 31, 2007, we received notice that the BOI is unable to certify the tax holiday. While we will contest such findings, we cannot provide assurance that we will prevail or, if we settle, it will be on terms favorable to us. If any such tax assessment were ruled against us, such a ruling may materially harm our business, operating results, financial results and materially reduce our profitability. Wage pressures and increases in government mandated benefits in India and Sri Lanka may reduce our profit margins. Wage costs in India and Sri Lanka have historically been significantly lower than wage costs in the United States and Europe for comparably-skilled professionals. However, wages in India and Sri Lanka are increasing, which will result in increased costs for IT professionals, particularly project managers and other mid-level professionals. We may need to increase the levels of our team member compensation more rapidly than in the past to remain competitive without the ability to make corresponding increases to our billing rates. Compensation increases may reduce our profit margins, make us less competitive in pricing potential projects against those companies with lower cost resources and otherwise harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we contribute to benefit funds covering our employees in India and Sri Lanka as mandated by the Indian and Sri Lankan governments. Benefits are based on the team member's, years of service and compensation. If the governments of India and/or Sri Lanka were to legislate increases to the benefits required under these plans or mandate additional benefits, our profitability and cash flows would be reduced. Our facilities are at risk of damage by earthquakes, tsunamis and other natural disasters. In December 2004, Sri Lanka and India were struck by multiple tsunamis that devastated certain areas of both countries. Our Indian and Sri Lankan facilities are located in regions that are susceptible to tsunamis and other natural disasters, which may increase the risk of disruption of information systems and telephone service for sustained periods. Damage or destruction that interrupts our ability to deliver our services could damage our relationships with our clients and may cause us to incur substantial additional expense to repair or replace damaged equipment or facilities. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all such expenses. Furthermore, we may be unable to secure such insurance coverage or to secure such insurance coverage at premiums acceptable to us in the future. Prolonged disruption of our services as a result of natural disasters may cause our clients to terminate their contracts with us and may result in project delays, project cancellations and loss of substantial revenue to us. Prolonged disruptions may also harm our team members or cause them to relocate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The laws of India and Sri Lanka do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as those of the United States and we may be unsuccessful in protecting our intellectual property rights. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights may result in loss of clients and increased competition. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to protect our proprietary methodologies, trade secrets and other intellectual property. We rely upon a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, non-disclosure agreements, other contractual arrangements and copyright, patent, and trademark laws to 41 Table of Contents protect our intellectual property rights. However, existing laws of India and Sri Lanka do not provide protection of intellectual property rights to the same extent as provided in the United States. The steps we take to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate to prevent or deter infringement or other unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Thus, we may not be able to detect unauthorized use or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. Our competitors may be able to imitate or duplicate our services or methodologies. The unauthorized use or duplication of our intellectual property could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and team members, reduce our revenue and increase our costs and expenses. We may need to litigate to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any such litigation could be extremely time-consuming and costly and could materially adversely impact our business. Any changes in U.S. corporate income tax law to impose U.S. tax on untaxed foreign profits could result in a higher effective income tax rate for us and adversely impact net income. The current administration has indicated it would support a tax policy that would limit certain incentives for U.S. companies which invest and reinvest overseas. If the current exemption for permanently reinvested foreign profits were to be repealed, it would have a material adverse impact on our effective tax rate and net income. We permanently reinvest our profits in and through our non-U.S. subsidiaries located in India and Sri Lanka where certain of such profits are not currently subject to tax under tax holidays in these countries. We can provide no assurance that a far reaching tax proposal impacting permanently reinvested foreign profits could be enacted which would reduce our net income and cash flows. Risks related to our common stock The market price of our common stock continues to be volatile. The market price of our common stock has at times experienced substantial price volatility as a result of variations between our actual and anticipated financial results, announcements by us and our competitors, projections or speculation about our business or that of our competitors by the media or investment analysts or uncertainty about current global economic conditions. The stock market, as a whole, also has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of the common stock of many technology companies in ways that may have been unrelated to such companies' operating performance. Furthermore, we believe the market price of our common stock should reflect future growth and profitability expectations. If we fail to meet these expectations, the market price of our common stock may significantly decline. In addition, there are many other factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, including: •actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us •deterioration and decline in general economic, industry and/or market conditions •announcements of technological innovations or new services by us or our competitors •changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by market analysts •announcements by us or our competitors of significant projects, contracts, acquisitions, strategic alliances or joint ventures •changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt •regulatory developments in the United States, the United Kingdom, India, Sri Lanka or other countries in which we operate or have clients 42 Table of Contents •litigation involving our company, our general industry or both •additions or departures of key team members •investors' general perception of us •changes in the market valuations of other IT service providers If any of the foregoing occurs or continues to occur, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to securities class action litigation. Any securities class action litigation could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management's attention and resources. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may prevent or delay a change of control of us and could also limit the market price of our common stock. Certain provisions of Delaware law and of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us, even if such a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders or result in a premium for your shares of our common stock. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: •a classified board of directors •limitations on the removal of directors •advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations •the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings •the ability of our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our by-laws The affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote is necessary to amend or repeal the above provisions that are contained in our certificate of incorporation. In addition, our board of directors has the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. Also, absent approval of our board of directors, our by-laws may only be amended or repealed by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits business combination transactions with stockholders of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock that our board of directors has not approved. These provisions and other similar provisions make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to acquire us without negotiation. These provisions may apply even if some stockholders may consider the transaction beneficial to them. These provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions might also discourage a potential acquisition proposal or tender offer, even if the acquisition proposal or tender offer is at a premium over the then current market price for our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 43 Table of Contents 