ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risk factors described below as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report before buying shares of our common stock. If any of the following risks or uncertainties occurs, our business, financial conditions and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or a part of your investment in our common stock. Risks Relating to our Financial Condition We have limited liquidity and, as a result, may not be able to meet our obligations. As of December 31, 2010 we had approximately $2.4 million in cash and cash equivalents. In March 2011, we received $4.3 million cash, net of $0.3 million in transaction costs, from the issuance of approximately 7.1 million shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase 5.3 million shares of our common stock. In February 2011, we received $6.6 million cash, net of $0.5 million in transaction costs, from the issuance of approximately 8.9 million shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase 3.6 million shares of our common stock. Our anticipated average monthly cash operating expenses in 2011 is approximately $1.1 million per month. In addition, we are required to make an interest and principal payment to our lender tbg on June 30, 2011 in the amount of approximately $0.5 million. We believe that our cash is sufficient to fund operations into 2012. We may receive cash from certain of our licensing partners during 2011 for achievement of clinical milestones, and we may raise additional funds through the issuance of debt and/or equity to meet our cash needs. To conserve cash, we may delay or cancel some of our planned development activities that are not related to Ceplene® during 2011. In November 2010 we provided an update with respect to our financing plans. The key element of the plan is a non-equity financing transaction that, if fully completed, will support our operations for an additional year. We anticipate that the transaction, which is subject to completion of due diligence and execution of mutually-satisfactory documentation, will close in 2011, but should the transaction not close or the proceeds be less than anticipated we may determine to seek additional or alternative sources or types of financing, including equity financing. We plan to out license our NP-1 compound to a third party who will agree to complete clinical development and commercialize the product upon receipt of necessary regulatory approvals. Discussions with prospective partners are continuing, however at this time we are unable to determine whether or when such an agreement might be concluded or the amount of any fees that may be paid to us in 2011 in connection with the agreement. If additional funds are raised by issuing equity, substantial dilution to existing shareholders may result. If we fail to obtain capital when required, we may be forced to delay, scale back, or eliminate some or all of our commercialization and clinical efforts for Ceplene® and our research and development programs or to cease operations entirely. We have a history of losses and have never generated significant revenue from product sales and we expect to incur substantial losses in the future. We have incurred significant losses since our inception, and we expect that we will experience net losses and negative cash flow for the foreseeable future. Since our inception in 1993, we have incurred significant net losses in each year. Our losses have resulted principally from expenses incurred in connection with our development activities and from general and administrative expenses associated with our operations. Our net loss for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $15.5 million, $38.8 million and $25.4 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, our accumulated deficit was $250.6 million and $235.0 million, respectively. We may never generate sufficient net revenue to achieve or sustain profitability. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses over the next several years as we: • apply for marketing approval of Ceplene® in the U.S., Canada, and other countries • continue to conduct clinical trials for Ceplene® and our product candidates; • seek regulatory approvals for Ceplene® and our product candidates; • develop, formulate and commercialize our product candidates; • implement additional internal controls and reporting systems and further develop our corporate infrastructure; 16 Table of Contents • acquire or in-license additional products or technologies or expand the use of our technologies; and • maintain, defend and expand the scope of our intellectual property. • hire additional personnel. We expect that we will have large fixed expenses in the future, including significant expenses for research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses. We will need to generate significant revenues to achieve and maintain profitability. If we cannot successfully develop, obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize our product candidates, we will not be able to generate significant revenue from product sales or achieve profitability in the future. As a result, our ability to achieve and sustain profitability will depend on our ability to generate and sustain substantially higher revenue while maintaining reasonable cost and expense levels. We may not be able to continue as a going concern. Our recurring losses from operations and our stockholders’ deficit raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern and as a result our independent registered public accounting firm included an explanatory paragraph in its report on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010, which is included herein, with respect to this uncertainty. We will need to generate significant revenue from the sale of Ceplene® or raise additional capital to continue to operate as a going concern. In addition, the perception that we may not be able to continue as a going concern may cause others to choose not to deal with us due to concerns about our ability to meet our contractual obligations and may adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital. Our quarterly financial results are likely to fluctuate significantly, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Our quarterly operating results will be difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period, particularly because we are a relatively small company and we have not generated any meaningful revenue to date. The level of our revenues and expenses and our results of operations at any given time could fluctuate as a result of any of the following factors: • research and development expenses incurred and other operating expenses; • results of our clinical trials; • our ability to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates; • our ability to achieve milestones under our strategic relationships on a timely basis or at all; • timing of new product offerings, acquisitions, licenses or other significant events by us or our competitors; • regulatory approvals and legislative changes affecting the products we may offer or those of our competitors; • our ability to establish and maintain a productive sales force; • demand and pricing of any of our products; • physician and patient acceptance of our products; • levels of third-party reimbursement for our products; • interruption in the manufacturing or distribution of our products; • the effect of competing technological and market developments; • litigation involving patents, licenses or other intellectual property rights; and • product failures or product liability lawsuits. With the exception of Ceplene®, we have not yet obtained regulatory approval for any of our product candidates. In addition, we do not manufacture products ourselves or conduct significant sales and marketing activities. Consequently, it is difficult to make any predictions about our future success, viability or profitability based on our historical operations. It is also difficult to predict the timing of the achievement of various milestones under our strategic relationships. In addition, our operating expenses may continue to increase as we develop product candidates and build commercial capabilities. Accordingly, we may experience significant quarterly losses. 17 Table of Contents Because of these factors, our operating results in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline significantly. We have had limited operating activities, which may make it difficult for you to evaluate the success of our business to date and to assess our future viability. Our activities to date have been limited to organizing and staffing our operations, acquiring, developing and securing our technology, licensing product candidates, and undertaking preclinical and clinical studies and clinical trials. With the exception of Ceplene®, we have not yet demonstrated an ability to obtain regulatory approval, manufacture products or conduct sales and marketing activities. Consequently, it is difficult to make any predictions about our future success, viability or profitability based on our historical operations. Clinical and Regulatory Risks Other than the marketing authorization for Ceplene® in the European Union and Israel, we currently have no products approved for sale and we cannot guarantee you that we will ever obtain regulatory approval for such other product candidates, which could delay or prevent us from being able to generate revenue from product sales. All of our product candidates are subject to extensive government regulations related to development, clinical trials, manufacturing and commercialization. The process of obtaining approvals from the FDA, European Medicines Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products, or EMA, and other governmental and similar international regulatory agencies is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. The FDA, EMA and similar international regulatory authorities may not ultimately approve the candidate for commercial sale in any jurisdiction. Despite the fact we received the marketing authorization for Ceplene® in the European Union and Israel, we may not receive regulatory approval outside of the European Union and Israel, including in the United States or Canada. The FDA, EMA and similar international regulators may refuse to approve an application for approval of a drug candidate if they believe that applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied. The FDA, EMA or similar international regulators may also require additional testing for safety and efficacy. Any failure or delay in obtaining these approvals could prohibit or delay us from marketing product candidates. If our other product candidates do not meet applicable regulatory requirements for approval, we may not have the financial resources to continue research and development of these product candidates and we may not generate significant revenues from the commercial sale of any of our products. To obtain regulatory approval for our other product candidates, we or our partners must conduct extensive human tests, which are referred to as clinical trials, as well as meet other rigorous regulatory requirements. Satisfaction of all regulatory requirements typically takes many years and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. We currently have several product candidates in various stages of clinical testing. All of our product candidates are prone to the risks of failure inherent in drug development and testing. Product candidates in later-stage clinical trials may fail to show desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed through initial clinical testing. In addition, the data collected from clinical trials of our product candidates may not be sufficient to support regulatory approval, or regulators could interpret the data differently than we do. The regulators may require us or our partners to conduct additional clinical testing, in which case we would have to expend additional time and resources. The approval process may also be delayed by changes in government regulation, future legislation or administrative action or changes in regulatory policy that occur prior to or during regulatory review. We and other drug development companies have suffered set backs in late-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in early stage development. Accordingly, the results from completed preclinical studies and early stage clinical trials may not be predictive of results in later stage trials and may not be predictive of the likelihood of regulatory approval. Any failure or significant delay in completing clinical trials for our product candidates, or in receiving regulatory approval for the sale of our product candidates, may severely harm our business and delay or prevent us from being able to generate revenue from product sales, and our stock price will likely decline. We may not be able to obtain regulatory approval in the United States for Ceplene®, our lead product candidate, which could delay or prevent us from being able to generate revenue from sales of Ceplene®, and require additional expenditures. None of our products has received regulatory approval in the United States. In August 2010, we received a refusal to file letter from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on our New Drug Application (NDA) for Ceplene®. 18 Table of Contents In October 2010, we reached an agreement on all outstanding issues with the FDA on a regulatory path forward for Ceplene®. The FDA indicated that a new trial should be conducted. As a next step, we will submit a detailed Phase III protocol. The FDA, via the Special Protocol Assessment (SPA) procedure, will provide guidance on specific sections of the protocol. However, it will take a considerable amount of time and money to conduct a new trial, and we may not be able to obtain the necessary financing to see a new trial through to completion. Even if we are able to complete a new trial, the trial may not be successful, and even if the new trial is successful and we submit a new NDA for Ceplene®, the FDA may nevertheless again issue a refusal to file, which means the FDA will not review our NDA, or even if it files our NDA it may recommend that our NDA not be approved. If the FDA accepts our submission, we may be unsuccessful in our efforts to obtain a marketing approval from the FDA. In the event we do not obtain marketing approval, we may appeal, but such an appeal may not be successful. A negative decision would delay or prevent us from generating revenue from product sales of Ceplene® in the United States for the foreseeable future and may require us to conduct additional costly and time-consuming clinical trials. The FDA may also require additional testing for safety and efficacy. Any failure or delay in obtaining a filing decision or an approval could prohibit or delay us from marketing product candidates. If our product candidates do not meet applicable regulatory requirements for approval, we may not have the financial resources to continue research and development of these product candidates, and we may not generate significant revenues from the commercial sale of any of our products in the U.S. We may not be able to maintain data protection in Canada for Ceplene®, which could limit our ability to generate revenue from sales of Ceplene® in Canada. In November 2009, Health Canada accepted for review a New Drug Submission, or NDS, for Ceplene® for the treatment of AML in Canada. We received a denial for data protection for Ceplene® in Canada in the fourth quarter of 2009. We are currently appealing this denial for data protection. In November 2010, we withdrew our application for approval of Ceplene® in Canada. We retain the right to re-file the application at any time over the next five years without prejudice. If we are unable to maintain data protection in Canada for Ceplene®, we may never generate revenue from sales of Ceplene® in Canada. Clinical trial designs that were discussed with regulatory authorities prior to their commencement may subsequently be considered insufficient for approval at the time of application for regulatory approval. We or our partners discuss with and obtain guidance from regulatory authorities on clinical trial protocols. Over the course of conducting clinical trials, circumstances may change, such as standards of safety, efficacy or medical practice, which could affect regulatory authorities’ perception of the adequacy of any of our clinical trial designs or the data we develop from our studies. Changes in circumstances could affect our ability to conduct clinical trials as planned. Even with successful clinical safety and efficacy data, we may be required to conduct additional, expensive trials to obtain regulatory approval. We may not be able to maintain European Union regulatory approval for Ceplene®, our lead product candidate, which could delay or prevent us from being able to generate revenue from sales of Ceplene® and require additional expenditures. Ceplene® is our lead product candidate and our only product candidate currently under regulatory consideration. In October 2008, Ceplene® was granted full marketing authorization by the European Commission, which allows Ceplene® to be marketed in the 27 member states of the European Union, as well as in Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. Ceplene® is to be administered in conjunction with low-dose interleukin-2 (IL-2). As part of granting the marketing authorization under Exceptional Circumstances, we have agreed to perform two post-approval clinical studies, that have now been combined into a single clinical study. The first part of the study will seek to further elucidate the clinical pharmacology of Ceplene® by assessing certain biomarkers in AML patients in first remission. The second part of the study will assess the effect of Ceplene®/IL-2 on the development of minimal residual disease in the same patient population. We may not receive a positive outcome in this study, and our marketing authorization in the European Union may be terminated. A negative outcome or terminated marketing authorization would delay or prevent us from generating revenue from product sales of Ceplene® and may require us to conduct additional costly and time-consuming clinical trials. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain governmental regulatory approvals to market Ceplene® in Europe. If we are unable to maintain regulatory approval to market Ceplene® in Europe, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents If we receive regulatory approval, our marketed products will also be subject to ongoing FDA and/or foreign regulatory agency obligations and continued regulatory review, and if we fail to comply with these regulations, we could lose approvals to market any products, and our business would be seriously harmed. Following initial regulatory approval of any of our product candidates, we will be subject to continuing regulatory review, including review of adverse experiences and clinical results that are reported after our products become commercially available. This would include results from any post-marketing tests or vigilance required as a condition of approval. The manufacturer and manufacturing facilities we use to make any of our product candidates will also be subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies. If a previously unknown problem or problems with a product, manufacturing or laboratory facility used by us is discovered, the FDA or foreign regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product or on the manufacturing facility, including requiring us to withdraw the product from the market. Any changes to an approved product, including the way it is manufactured or promoted, often require FDA approval before the product, as modified, can be marketed. We and our manufacturers will be subject to ongoing FDA requirements for submission of safety and other post-market information. If we or our manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: • issue warning letters; • impose civil or criminal penalties; • suspend or withdraw regulatory approval; • suspend any ongoing clinical trials; • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications; • impose restrictions on operations; • close the facilities of manufacturers; or • seize or detain products or require a product recall. In addition, the policies of the FDA or other applicable regulatory agencies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature, or extent of adverse government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. Any regulatory approval we receive for our product candidates will be limited to those indications and conditions for which we are able to show clinical safety and efficacy. Any regulatory approval that we may receive for our current or future product candidates will be limited to those diseases and indications for which such product candidates are clinically demonstrated to be safe and effective. For example, in addition to the FDA approval required for new formulations, any new indication to an approved product also requires FDA approval. If we are not able to obtain regulatory approval for a broad range of indications for our product candidates, our ability to effectively market and sell our product candidates may be greatly reduced and may harm our ability to generate revenue. Our lead product candidate, Ceplene®, which when used concomitantly with low-dose interleukin-2, is intended only for remission maintenance therapy in the treatment of AML for adult patients in their first complete remission. Any other indications or uses of Ceplene® would require additional regulatory approval for us to market Ceplene® for these indications. While physicians may choose to prescribe drugs for uses that are not described in the product’s labeling and for uses that differ from those tested in clinical studies and approved by regulatory authorities, our regulatory approvals will be limited to those indications that are specifically submitted to the regulatory agency for review. These “off-label” uses are common across medical specialties and may constitute the best treatment for many patients in varied circumstances. Regulatory authorities in the United States generally do not regulate the behavior of physicians in their choice of treatments. Regulatory authorities do, however, restrict communications by pharmaceutical companies on the subject of off-label use. If our promotional activities fail to comply with these regulations or guidelines, we may be subject to warnings from, or enforcement action by, these authorities. In addition, our failure to follow regulatory rules and guidelines relating to promotion and advertising may cause the regulatory agency to delay its approval or refuse to approve a product, the suspension or withdrawal of an approved product from the market, recalls, fines, disgorgement of money, operating restrictions, injunctions or criminal prosecutions, any of which could harm our business. 20 Table of Contents The results of our clinical trials are uncertain, which could substantially delay or prevent us from bringing our product candidates to market. Before we can obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate, we must undertake extensive clinical testing in humans to demonstrate safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA or other regulatory agencies. Clinical trials are very expensive and difficult to design and implement. The clinical trial process is also time consuming. The commencement and completion of our clinical trials could be delayed or prevented by several factors, including: • delays in obtaining regulatory approvals to commence or continue a study; • delays in reaching agreement on acceptable clinical trial parameters; • slower than expected rates of patient recruitment and enrollment; • inability to demonstrate effectiveness or statistically significant results in our clinical trials; • unforeseen safety issues; • uncertain dosing issues; • inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment; and • inability or unwillingness of medical investigators to follow our clinical protocols. We cannot assure you that our planned clinical trials will begin or be completed on time or at all, or that they will not need to be restructured prior to completion. Significant delays in clinical testing will impede our ability to commercialize our product candidates and generate revenue from product sales and could materially increase our development costs. Completion of clinical trials may take several years or more, but the length of time generally varies according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of a drug candidate. The cost of clinical trials may vary significantly over the life of a project as a result of differences arising during clinical development, including: • the number of sites included in the trials; • the length of time required to enroll suitable patient subjects; • the number of patients that participate in the trials; • the number of doses that patients receive; • the duration of follow-up with the patient; • the product candidate’s phase of development; and • the efficacy and safety profile of the product. The use of FDA-approved therapeutics in certain of our pain product candidates could require us to conduct additional preclinical studies and clinical trials, which could increase development costs and lengthen the regulatory approval process. Certain of our pain product candidates utilize proprietary formulations and topical delivery technologies to administer FDA-approved pain management therapeutics. We may still be required to conduct preclinical studies and clinical trials to determine if our product candidates are safe and effective. In addition, we may also be required to conduct additional preclinical studies and Phase I clinical trials to establish the safety of the topical delivery of these therapeutics and the level of absorption of the therapeutics into the bloodstream. The FDA may also require us to conduct clinical studies to establish that our delivery mechanisms are safer or more effective than the existing methods for delivering these therapeutics. As a result, we may be required to conduct complex clinical trials, which could be expensive and time-consuming and lengthen the anticipated regulatory approval process. 21 Table of Contents In some instances, we rely on third parties, over which we have little or no control, to conduct clinical trials for our products and their failure to perform their obligations in a timely or competent manner may delay development and commercialization of our product candidates. The nature of clinical trials and our business strategy requires us to rely on clinical research centers and other third parties to assist us with clinical testing and certain research and development activities, such as our agreement with Myrexis, Inc. related to the MX90745 series of apoptosis-inducer anti-cancer compounds. As a result, our success is dependent upon the success of these third parties in performing their responsibilities. We cannot directly control the adequacy and timeliness of the resources and expertise applied to these activities by such third parties. If such contractors do not perform their activities in an adequate or timely manner, the development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed. In addition, we rely on Myrexis for research and development related to the MX90745 series of apoptosis-inducer anti-cancer compounds. We may enter into similar agreements from time to time with additional third parties for our other product candidates whereby these third parties undertake significant responsibility for research, clinical trials or other aspects of obtaining FDA approval. As a result, we may face delays if Myrexis or these additional third parties do not conduct clinical studies and trials, or prepare or file regulatory related documents, in a timely or competent fashion. The conduct of the clinical studies by, and the regulatory strategies of, Myrexis or these additional third parties, over which we have limited or no control, may delay or prevent regulatory approval of our product candidates, which would delay or limit our ability to generate revenue from product sales. Risks Relating to Commercialization We and our partner may not be able to successfully market and sell Ceplene®. Even though Ceplene® was granted full marketing authorization by the European Commission for the remission maintenance and prevention of relapse in adult patients with Acute Myeloid Leukemia in first remission, our partner, Meda AB, may not be able to effectively market and sell Ceplene®. We are reliant on Meda AB to generate revenue from sales of Ceplene® in Europe and certain other countries on our behalf. We expect to incur substantial net losses, in the aggregate and on a per share basis, for the foreseeable future as Meda AB launches and commercializes Ceplene® and we seek FDA approval to market Ceplene® in the United States. We are unable to predict the extent of these future net losses, or when we may attain profitability, if at all. These net losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ deficit. We anticipate that for the foreseeable future our ability to generate revenues and achieve profitability will be dependent on the successful commercialization of Ceplene®. If we are unable to generate significant revenue from Ceplene®, or attain profitability, we may not be able to sustain our operations. Ceplene® may fail to achieve market acceptance, which could harm our business. Even though Ceplene® was granted full marketing authorization by the European Commission for the remission maintenance and prevention of relapse in adult patients with Acute Myeloid Leukemia in first remission, physicians may choose not to prescribe this product, and third-party payers may choose not to pay for it. Accordingly, we may be unable to generate significant revenue or become profitable. Acceptance of Ceplene® will depend on a number of factors including: • acceptance of Ceplene® by physicians and patients as a safe and effective treatment; • availability of reimbursement for our product from government or healthcare payors; • cost effectiveness of Ceplene®; • the effectiveness of our and Meda’s or collaboration partners’ sales and marketing efforts; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • safety and efficacy; • prevalence and severity of side effects; and • availability of competitive products. If Ceplene® fails to achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents We are dependent upon collaborative arrangements for the further development and commercialization of Ceplene®. These collaborative arrangements may place the development and commercialization of Ceplene® outside of our control, may require us to relinquish important rights or may otherwise be on terms unfavorable to us. We have entered into a collaborative arrangement with Meda to market and sell Ceplene® in Europe and certain other countries and we may enter into other collaborations with third parties to further develop and commercialize Ceplene®. We may not be able to enter into collaborative arrangements on attractive terms, on a timely basis or at all. Dependence on collaborators for the development and commercialization of Ceplene® subjects us to a number of risks, including: • we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators devote to the development or commercialization of Ceplene® or to their marketing and distribution, which could adversely affect our ability to obtain milestone and royalty payments; • disputes may arise between us and our collaborators that result in the delay or termination of the commercialization of our product candidates or that result in costly litigation or arbitration that diverts management’s attention and resources; • our collaborators may experience financial difficulties; • collaborators may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our proprietary information in such a way as to expose us to potential litigation, jeopardize or lessen the value of our proprietary information, or weaken or invalidate our intellectual property rights; • business combinations or significant changes in a collaborator’s business strategy may also adversely affect a collaborator’s willingness or ability to complete its obligations under any arrangement; • a collaborator could independently move forward with a competing product candidate developed either independently or in collaboration with others, including our competitors; and • the collaborations may be terminated or allowed to expire, which would delay product development and commercialization efforts. If our arrangement with Meda is not successful or we are not able to enter into other collaborative arrangements on commercially attractive terms, on a timely basis or at all, or if any of the risks occur and we are unable to successfully manage such risks, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to enter into and maintain successful strategic alliances for our product candidates, we may have to reduce or delay our product commercialization or increase our expenditures. Our strategy for developing, manufacturing and commercializing potential product candidates in multiple therapeutic areas currently requires us to enter into and successfully maintain strategic alliances with pharmaceutical companies that have product development resources and expertise, established distribution systems and direct sales forces to advance our development programs and reduce our expenditures on each development program and market any products that we may develop. We have formed a strategic alliance with Myrexis with respect to the MX90745 series of apoptosis-inducer anti-cancer compounds and with DURECT for our intellectual property for a transdermal patch containing bupivacaine for the treatment of back pain. We may not be able to negotiate additional strategic alliances on acceptable terms, or at all. We have entered into collaborative arrangements with respect to marketing or selling Ceplene® in Europe, certain Pacific rim countries and Israel. We may rely on collaborative partners to market and sell Ceplene® in other international markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into any more such arrangements on terms favorable to us, or at all. If we are unable to maintain our existing strategic alliances or establish and maintain additional strategic alliances, we may have to limit the size or scope of, or delay, one or more of our product development or commercialization programs, or undertake the various activities at our own expense. In addition, our dependence on strategic alliances is subject to a number of risks, including: • the inability to control the amount or timing of resources that our collaborators may devote to developing the product candidates; • the possibility that we may be required to relinquish important rights, including intellectual property, marketing and distribution rights; 23 Table of Contents • the receipt of lower revenues than if we were to commercialize such products ourselves; • our failure to receive future milestone payments or royalties should a collaborator fail to commercialize one of our product candidates successfully; • the possibility that a collaborator could separately move forward with a competing product candidate developed either independently or in collaboration with others, including our competitors; • the possibility that our collaborators may experience financial difficulties; • business combinations or significant changes in a collaborator’s business strategy that may adversely affect that collaborator’s willingness or ability to complete its obligations under any arrangement; and • the chance that our collaborators may operate in countries where their operations could be negatively impacted by changes in the local regulatory environment or by political unrest. If the market does not accept and use our product candidates, we will not achieve sufficient product revenues and our business will suffer. If we receive regulatory approval to market our product candidates, physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community may not accept and use them. The degree of market acceptance and use of any approved products will depend on a number of factors, including: • perceptions by members of the healthcare community, including physicians, about the safety and effectiveness of our products; • cost effectiveness of our products relative to competing products; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • availability of reimbursement for our products from government or healthcare payors; and • effectiveness of marketing and distribution efforts by us and our licensees and distributors. Because we expect to rely on sales and royalties generated by our current lead product, Ceplene®, for a substantial portion of our product revenues for the foreseeable future, the failure of any of these drugs to find market acceptance would harm our business and could require us to seek additional funding to continue our other development programs. Our product candidates could be rendered obsolete by technological change and medical advances, which would adversely affect the performance of our business. Our product candidates may be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by the development of medical advances to treat the conditions that our product candidates are designed to address. Pain management therapeutics are the subject of active research and development by many potential competitors, including major pharmaceutical companies, specialized biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions. Research and development by others may render our technology or product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive or result in treatments or cures superior to any therapy we developed. Technological advances affecting costs of production could also harm our ability to cost-effectively produce and sell products. We have no manufacturing capacity and anticipate continued reliance on third parties for the manufacture of our product candidates. We do not currently operate manufacturing facilities for Ceplene® or any of our product candidates. We lack the resources and the capabilities to manufacture Ceplene® or any of our product candidates. We currently rely on one or more contract manufacturers for Ceplene® and each product candidate to supply, store and distribute drug supplies for commercial use and for our clinical trials. Any performance failure or delay on the part of our existing manufacturers could result in lost sales or delay clinical development or regulatory approval of our product candidates and their commercialization, producing additional losses and depriving us of potential product revenues. 24 Table of Contents If the FDA or other regulatory agencies approve any of our product candidates for commercial sale, the product will need to be manufactured in larger quantities. Some of our product candidates have been manufactured in only small quantities for preclinical and clinical trials. In those cases, our third party manufacturers may not be able to successfully increase their manufacturing capacity in a timely or economical manner, or at all. We may be forced to identify alternative or additional third party manufacturers, which may prove difficult because the number of potential manufacturers is limited and the FDA must approve any replacement contractor prior to manufacturing our products. Such approval would require new testing and compliance inspections. In addition, a new manufacturer would have to be educated in, or develop substantially equivalent processes for, production of our product candidates. It may be difficult or impossible for us to find a replacement manufacturer on acceptable terms quickly, or at all. If we are unable to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for a drug candidate in a timely and economical manner, the regulatory approval or commercial launch of any related products may be delayed or there may be a shortage in supply, both of which may have an adverse effect on our business. Our product candidates require precise, high quality manufacturing. A failure to achieve and maintain high manufacturing standards, including the incidence of manufacturing errors, could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously hurt our business. Manufacturers often encounter difficulties involving production yields, quality control and quality assurance, as well as shortages of qualified personnel. These manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency and corresponding state and foreign agencies to ensure strict compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice and other applicable government regulations and corresponding foreign standards; however, we do not have control over third party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. If one of our manufacturers fails to maintain compliance, the production of our product candidates could be interrupted, resulting in delays, additional costs and potentially lost revenues. Additionally, third-party manufacturers must pass a pre-approval inspection before we can obtain marketing approval for any of our products in development. Furthermore, our existing and future contract manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to successfully produce, store and distribute our product candidates. We may not own, or may have to share, the intellectual property rights to such innovation. In the event of a natural disaster, equipment failure, power failure, strike or other difficulty, we may be unable to replace our third party manufacturers in a timely manner. We may be the subject of costly product liability claims or product recalls, and we may be unable to obtain or maintain insurance adequate to cover potential liabilities. The risk of product liability is inherent in the development, manufacturing and marketing of human therapeutic products. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: • reduced revenues or a total withdrawal of a product from one or more markets; • delays in, or failure to complete, our clinical trials; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • decreased demand for our product candidates; • injury to our reputation; • litigation costs; • substantial monetary awards against us; and • diversion of management or other resources from key aspects of our operations. Product liability claims could result in an FDA investigation of the safety or efficacy of our products or our marketing programs. An FDA investigation could also potentially lead to a recall of our products or more serious enforcement actions, or limitations on the indications for which our products may be used, or suspension or withdrawal of approval. We cannot be certain that the coverage limits of the insurance policies or those of our strategic partners will be adequate. We further intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if marketing approval is obtained for our product candidates. We may not be able to obtain additional insurance or maintain our existing insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or at all. If we are unable to obtain sufficient insurance at an acceptable cost or if a claim is brought against us, whether fully covered by insurance or not, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 25 Table of Contents The coverage and reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare drugs is uncertain and failure to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement could limit our ability to market our products. Our ability to commercialize any products successfully will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement will be available from governmental and other third-party payors, both in the United States and in foreign markets. The amount reimbursed for our products may be insufficient to allow them to compete effectively with products that are reimbursed at a higher level. If the price we are able to charge for any product we develop is inadequate in light of our development costs, our profitability would be reduced. Reimbursement by a governmental and other third-party payor may depend upon a number of factors, including the governmental and other third-party payor’s determination that the use of a product is: • a covered benefit under its health plan; • safe, effective and medically necessary; • appropriate for the specific patient; • cost-effective; and • neither experimental nor investigational. Obtaining reimbursement approval for a product from each third-party and governmental payor is a time consuming and costly process that could require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost effectiveness data for the use of our products to each payor. We may not be able to provide data sufficient to obtain reimbursement. Eligibility for coverage does not imply that any drug product will be reimbursed in all cases or at a rate that allows us to make a profit. Interim payments for new products, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover our costs and may not become permanent. Reimbursement rates may vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on payments allowed for lower-cost drugs that are already reimbursed, may be incorporated into existing payments for other products or services and may reflect budgetary constraints and/or Medicare or Medicaid data used to calculate these rates. Net prices for products also may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs or by any future relaxation of laws that restrict imports of certain medical products from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the United States. The health care industry is experiencing a trend toward containing or reducing costs through various means, including lowering reimbursement rates, limiting therapeutic class coverage and negotiating reduced payment schedules with service providers for drug products. There have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, federal and state proposals to constrain expenditures for medical products and services, which may affect reimbursement levels for our future products. In addition, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services frequently change product descriptors, coverage policies, product and service codes, payment methodologies and reimbursement values. Third-party payors often follow Medicare coverage policies and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates and may have sufficient market power to demand significant price reductions. Foreign governments tend to impose strict price controls, which may adversely affect our future profitability. In some foreign countries, particularly in the European Union, prescription drug pricing is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our product candidates to other available therapies. If reimbursement of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our profitability would be reduced. 26 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry Our failure to attract and retain skilled personnel could impair our product development and commercialization efforts. Our success is substantially dependent on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management, scientific and technical personnel and our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with leading institutions, clinicians and scientists. We are highly dependent upon our key management personnel, particularly John V. Talley, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Robert W. Cook, our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Dr. Stephane Allard, our Chief Medical Officer and Dr. Dileep Bhagwat, our Senior Vice President, Pharmaceutical Development. We are also dependent on certain scientific and technical personnel. The loss of the services of any member of senior management, or scientific or technical staff may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of product development, commercialization and other business objectives. Messrs. Talley and Cook have entered into employment agreements with us. However, either of them may decide to voluntarily terminate his employment with us. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on any of our employees. We believe that we will need to recruit additional management and technical personnel. There is currently a shortage of, and intense competition for, skilled executives and employees with relevant scientific and technical expertise, and this shortage may continue. The inability to attract and retain sufficient scientific, technical and managerial personnel could limit or delay our product development efforts, which would reduce our ability to successfully commercialize product candidates and our business. Our competitors may develop and market drugs that are less expensive, safer, or more effective, which may diminish or eliminate the commercial success of any of our product candidates. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive and characterized by rapid technological change. Because we anticipate that our research approach will integrate many technologies, it may be difficult for us to stay abreast of the rapid changes in technology. If we fail to stay at the forefront of technological change, we will be unable to compete effectively. Our competitors may render our technologies obsolete by advances in existing technological approaches or the development of different approaches by one or more of our current or future competitors. We will compete with Pfizer and Endo in the treatment of neuropathic pain. There are also many companies, both publicly and privately held, including well-known pharmaceutical companies and academic and other research institutions, engaged in developing pharmaceutical products for the treatment of life-threatening cancers and diseases. Our competitors may: • develop and market product candidates that are less expensive and more effective than our future product candidates; • adapt more quickly to new technologies and scientific advances; • commercialize competing product candidates before we or our partners can launch any product candidates developed from our product candidates; • initiate or withstand substantial price competition more successfully than we can; • have greater success in recruiting skilled scientific workers from the limited pool of available talent; • more effectively negotiate third-party licenses and strategic alliances; and • take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities more readily than we can. We will compete for market share against fully-integrated pharmaceutical companies and smaller companies that are collaborating with larger pharmaceutical companies, new companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. Many of these competitors, either alone or together with their partners, may develop new product candidates that will compete with our product candidates, as these competitors may operate larger research and development programs or have substantially greater financial resources than us. Our competitors may also have significantly greater experience in: • developing drugs; • undertaking preclinical testing and human clinical trials; • building relationships with key customers and opinion-leading physicians; • obtaining and maintaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of drugs; • formulating and manufacturing drugs; and • launching, marketing and selling drugs. These and other competitive factors may negatively impact our financial performance. 27 Table of Contents EpiCept GmbH, our German subsidiary, is subject to various risks associated with its international operations. Our subsidiary, EpiCept GmbH, operates in Germany, and we face a number of risks associated with its operations, including: • difficulties and costs associated in complying with German laws and regulations; • changes in the German regulatory environment; • increased costs associated with operating in Germany; • increased costs and complexities associated with financial reporting; and • difficulties in maintaining international operations. Expenses incurred by our German operations are typically denominated in euros. In addition, EpiCept GmbH has incurred indebtedness that is denominated in euros and requires that interest be paid in euros. As a result, our costs of maintaining and operating our German subsidiary, and the interest payments and costs of repaying its indebtedness, increase if the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro declines. Risks Relating to Intellectual Property If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our competitors could develop and market products with features similar to our products and demand for our products may decline. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection of our technologies and product candidates as well as successfully defending these patents and trade secrets against third party challenges. We will only be able to protect our intellectual property from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable patents or trade secrets cover them. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. In addition, changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States or other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in third party patents. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example: • we might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of its pending patent applications and issued patents, and we could lose our patent rights as a result; • we might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions or our patent applications may not have been timely filed, and we could lose our patent rights as a result; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • it is possible that none of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents; • our issued patents may not provide a basis for commercially viable drugs or therapies, may not provide us with any protection from unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and may not provide us with any competitive advantages; • our patent applications or patents may be subject to interference, opposition or similar administrative proceedings; • we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or • the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business. Moreover, the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability and it is uncertain how much protection, if any, will be afforded by our patents if we attempt to enforce them and they are challenged in court or in other proceedings, such as oppositions, which may be brought in U.S. or foreign jurisdictions to challenge the validity of a patent. A third party may challenge the validity or enforceability of a patent after its issuance by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO. 28 Table of Contents The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, interferences, oppositions and related legal and administrative proceedings in the United States are costly, time consuming to pursue and result in diversion of resources. The outcome of these proceedings is uncertain and could significantly harm our business. We will also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We will use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific partners and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose its confidential information to competitors. Enforcing a claim that a third party improperly obtained and is using our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. If we are not able to defend the patent protection position of our technologies and product candidates, then we will not be able to exclude competitors from marketing product candidates that directly compete with our product candidates, and we may not generate enough revenue from our product candidates to justify the cost of their development and to achieve or maintain profitability. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, such litigation will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome could increase our costs or have a negative impact on our business. Our ability to commercialize our products depends on our ability to sell our products without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending applications, which are owned by third parties, exist with respect to the therapeutics utilized in our product candidates and topical delivery mechanisms. Because we are utilizing existing therapeutics, we will continue to need to ensure that we can utilize these therapeutics without infringing existing patent rights. Accordingly, we have reviewed related patents known to us and, in some instances, licensed related patented technologies. In addition, because patent applications can take several years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that the combined organization’s product candidates may infringe. There could also be existing patents of which we are not aware that our product candidates may inadvertently infringe. We cannot assure you that any of our product candidates does not infringe the intellectual property of others. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claims that we infringe on their technology, we could face a number of issues that could increase its costs or have a negative impact on its business, including: • infringement and other intellectual property claims which, with or without merit, can be costly and time consuming to litigate and can delay the regulatory approval process and divert management’s attention from our core business strategy; • substantial damages for past infringement, which we may have to pay if a court determines that our products infringes a competitor’s patent; • an injunction prohibiting us from selling or licensing our product unless the patent holder licenses the patent to us, which the holder is not required to do; and • if a license is available from a patent holder, we may have to pay substantial royalties or grant cross licenses to our patents. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Many of our employees were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including competitors or potential competitors. We may be subject to claims that we or these employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary claims, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize certain product candidates, which could severely harm our business. Litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. 29 Table of Contents Risks Relating to our Common Stock Our common stock may be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market or the Nasdaq OMX Stockholm Exchange, which may make it more difficult for you to sell your shares. In October 2010, we received a letter from the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Department stating that we are not in compliance with the continued listing requirements of The Nasdaq Capital Market because the bid price of our common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for 30 consecutive business days. We have been provided a period of 180 calendar days, or until April 4, 2011, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule. If at any time before April 4, 2011, the bid price of our common stock closes at $1.00 per share or higher for a period determined by Nasdaq (which shall be a minimum of 10 consecutive business days), Nasdaq will provide us with written notification that we are in compliance with the rule. In the event that we do not regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule by April 4, 2011, Nasdaq will determine whether we meet the initial listing criteria, with the exception of bid price, for The Nasdaq Capital Market and, if we do, we will be granted an additional compliance period of 180 calendar days. In the event that we are not eligible for the minimum bid price additional compliance period, we will have the right to appeal a determination to delist our common stock. Our common stock would remain listed on The Nasdaq Capital Market until the completion of the appeal process. Delisting of our common stock by The Nasdaq Capital Market may result in the delisting of our common stock on the Nasdaq OMX Stockholm Exchange in Sweden and the delisting of our common stock on The Nasdaq Capital Market or the Nasdaq OMX Stockholm Exchange would adversely affect the market price and liquidity of our common stock and warrants, your ability to sell your shares of our common stock and our ability to raise capital. We expect that our stock price will fluctuate significantly due to external factors, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. Securities markets worldwide have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common stock regardless of our operating performance. Since January 30, 2007, our common stock trades on The Nasdaq Capital Market and on the Nasdaq OMX Stockholm Exchange. From January 5, 2006 through January 29, 2007, our common stock traded on The Nasdaq National Market. Prior to January 4, 2006, our common stock did not trade on an exchange. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market through equity financing or otherwise could adversely affect the prevailing market prices of the common stock and our ability to raise equity capital in the future. In particular, as of March 30, 2011 we have outstanding warrants to purchase approximately 33.4 million shares of our common stock, and the market price of our common stock could decline as a result of exercises or sales by our existing warrant holders in the market or the perception that these exercises or sales could occur. These exercises or sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about us, if they change their recommendations regarding our stock adversely or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline. Future sales of common stock may cause our stock price to fall. As of March 30, 2011, we have outstanding and exercisable warrants to purchase approximately 17.0 million shares of our common stock with exercise prices ranging from $0.75 — $2.08. We also have a significant number of warrants outstanding with exercise prices ranging from $2.58 — $5.64 that are currently exercisable. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of exercises or sales by our existing warrant holders and stockholders in the market or the perception that these exercises or sales could occur. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities or convertible debt securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. 30 Table of Contents Provisions of our charter documents or Delaware law could delay or prevent an acquisition of us, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and could make it more difficult for you to change management. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. This is because these provisions may prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors; • a prohibition on stockholder action through written consent; • a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called only by the board of directors or a committee duly designated by the board of directors whose powers and authorities include the power to call such special meetings; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; and • the authority of the board of directors to issue preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person that together with its affiliates owns or within the last three years has owned 15% of voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, Section 203 may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us. As a result of these provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law, the price investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock may be limited. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid cash dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date, and we intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. In addition, the terms of existing or any future debt may preclude us from paying these dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and distract management. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the listing requirements of The Nasdaq Capital Market and the Nasdaq OMX Stockholm Exchange. The obligations of being a public company require significant additional expenditures and place additional demands on our management as we comply with the reporting requirements of a public company. We may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. 31 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2010 fiscal year that remain unresolved. 