RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to our Financial Condition We have had limited operating activities, which may make it difficult for you to evaluate the success of our business to date and to assess our future viability. Our activities to date have been limited to organizing and staffing our operations, acquiring, developing and securing our technology, licensing product candidates, and undertaking preclinical and clinical studies and clinical trials. We have not yet demonstrated an ability to obtain regulatory approval, manufacture products or conduct sales and marketing activities. Consequently, it is difficult to make any predictions about our future success, viability or profitability based on our historical operations. We have a history of losses, and as a result we may not be able to generate sufficient net revenue from product sales in the foreseeable future. We have incurred significant losses since our inception, and we expect that we will experience net losses and negative cash flow for the foreseeable future. Since our inception in 1993, we have incurred significant net losses in each year. Our losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in connection with our development activities and from general and administrative costs associated with our operations. Our net loss for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 was $7.2 million. As of December 31, 2005, our accumulated deficit was $67.7 million. Prior to the merger, Maxim experienced net losses every year since its inception. Maxim’s net losses applicable to common stock were $27.6 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005 As of September 30, 2005, Maxim had an accumulated deficit of approximately $379.1 million. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing one or more of our product candidates, we may never become profitable. Accordingly, we may never generate sufficient net revenue to achieve or sustain profitability. We expect to continue to incur increasing expenses over the next several years as we: • continue to conduct clinical trials for our product candidates; • seek regulatory approvals for our product candidates; • develop, formulate and commercialize our product candidates; • implement additional internal systems and develop new infrastructure; • acquire or in-license additional products or technologies or expand the use of our technologies; • maintain, defend and expand the scope of our intellectual property; and • hire additional personnel. We expect that we will have large fixed expenses in the future, including significant expenses for research and development and general and administrative expenses. We will need to generate significant revenues to achieve and maintain profitability. If we cannot successfully develop and commercialize our product candidates, we will not be able to generate significant revenue from product sales or achieve profitability in the future. As a result, our ability to achieve and sustain profitability will depend on our ability to generate and sustain substantially higher revenue while maintaining reasonable cost and expense levels. We may need substantial additional funding, may be unable to raise additional capital when needed and may not continue as a going concern. This could force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development and commercialization activities. Developing drugs, conducting clinical trials and commercializing products is time-consuming and expensive. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the progress and cost of our clinical trials and other development activities; • the costs and timing of obtaining regulatory approval; 21 Table of Contents • the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent applications, claims, patent and other intellectual property rights; • the cost and timing of securing manufacturing capabilities for our clinical product candidates and commercial products, if any; • the costs of establishing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; and • the terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing and other arrangements that we may establish. We believe that, after giving effect to the merger and our recent sale of common stock and common stock purchase warrants, our existing cash resources will be sufficient to meet our projected operating requirements through the second quarter of 2007. However, we may need to raise additional capital or incur indebtedness to continue to fund our operations in the future. We cannot assure you that sufficient funds will be available to us when required or on satisfactory terms. If necessary funds are not available, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate some of our development programs, which could delay the time to market for any of our product candidates. We may raise additional capital through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on financial, economic and market conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot be certain that such additional funding will be available upon acceptable terms, or at all. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our then-existing stockholders may experience further dilution. Debt financing, if available, may subject us to restrictive covenants that could limit our flexibility in conducting future business activities. To the extent that we raise additional capital through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary for us to relinquish valuable rights to our product candidates that we might otherwise seek to develop or commercialize independently. If certain contingent liabilities of Maxim mature into actual liabilities, our cash reserves and financial condition could be adversely affected. Maxim was named as a defendant in state and federal stockholder suits that were filed in 2004. The cases were tendered to Maxim’s insurance carrier, which denied coverage. In addition, prior to the merger, on May 3, 2005, plaintiff Carolina Casualty Insurance Company filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California against Larry G. Stambaugh, Anthony E. Altig, Kurt R. Gehlsen, and Maxim’s Board of Directors, seeking a declaratory judgment from the court that Maxim’s D&O insurance policy did not cover losses arising from the state and federal stockholder suits that were filed in 2004. We dispute Maxim’s insurance carrier’s denial of coverage and fully intend to enforce our rights under the policy. We also intend to engage in a rigorous defense against Carolina Casualty Insurance Company’s claims. No assurances can be made that we will be successful in enforcing our rights under the policy or defending the pending claims. If we are is not successful in our enforcement of the policy or defense of such claims, we could be forced to, among other things, make significant payments to resolve these claims, and such payments could have a material adverse effect on Maxim’s business, financial condition and results of operations if not covered by Maxim’s insurance carrier. On August 19, 2005, prior to the merger, Maxim entered into an agreement with Larry G. Stambaugh, who served as Maxim’s Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer until January 4, 2006, regarding the forgiveness of all amounts owed (including principal and accrued interest) under a $2,850,000 full recourse, interest bearing, secured revolving promissory note made by Maxim to Mr. Stambaugh on December 8, 2000, as amended on December 8, 2001. The loan was originally made to replace a loan Mr. Stambaugh had with a third-party that was secured by shares of Maxim stock that he owned. The purpose of the loan was to avoid the necessity of Mr. Stambaugh selling Maxim stock during periods of market volatility and was viewed at the time to be in the best interests of Maxim and its stockholders. As reported in Maxim’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005, the loan had been written down to zero. This write-down resulted from Maxim’s evaluation of Mr. Stambaugh’s inability to repay the loan, which has been in default since December 2002. On August 3, 2005, Mr. Stambaugh forfeited all collateral securing the loan, including 203,333 shares of Maxim’s common stock and 1,563,667 of options to purchase Maxim’s common stock. Mr. Stambaugh is currently insolvent and unable to repay the outstanding balance of the loan. After extensively reviewing all related facts and circumstances, including Maxim’s then needs, prospects and contingency plans, Mr. Stambaugh’s then assets and liabilities, Maxim’s resulting inability to collect the loan indebtedness, and the best interests of Maxim’s stockholders and creditors, Maxim’s board of directors agreed to forgive the loan. The agreement relating to such forgiveness also provides for the release by Mr. Stambaugh of any and all claims that he may have against Maxim, its officers, directors, stockholders and certain of its other 22 Table of Contents representatives with regard to any claims that he may have arising out of or in connection with the loan. In connection with the loan forgiveness, on August 19, 2005, Maxim entered into an indemnification agreement with Mr. Stambaugh. Pursuant to the indemnification agreement, Maxim agreed to indemnify Mr. Stambaugh for certain excise taxes, if any, under Section 280G and Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, that may arise as a result of the forgiveness of the loan. These sections of the Internal Revenue Code relate to so called “golden parachute payments” made to certain individuals in connection with a change in ownership of a business. If the forgiveness of Mr. Stambaugh’s loan is found to be compensation paid contingent upon a change in ownership or control of Maxim, then Mr. Stambaugh will be subject to such excise taxes and EpiCept will be required to indemnify Mr. Stambaugh for such taxes, including the full amount of any additional taxes on the indemnification payments made to Mr. Stambaugh or on his behalf. Our quarterly financial results are likely to fluctuate significantly, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Our quarterly operating results will be difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period, particularly because we will be a relatively small company with no approved products. The level of our revenues, if any, and results of operations at any given time could fluctuate as a result of any of the following factors: • research and development expenses incurred in connection with our license agreement with Endo Pharmaceuticals and other license agreements; • results of our clinical trials; • our ability to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates; • our ability to achieve milestones under our strategic relationships on a timely basis or at all; • timing of new product offerings, acquisitions, licenses or other significant events by us or our competitors; • regulatory approvals and legislative changes affecting the products we may offer or those of our competitors; • our ability to establish and maintain a productive sales force; • demand and pricing of any products we may offer; • physician and patient acceptance of our products; • levels of third-party reimbursement for our products; • interruption in the manufacturing or distribution of our products; • the effect of competing technological and market developments; • litigation involving patents, licenses or other intellectual property rights; and • product failures or product liability lawsuits. Until we obtain regulatory approval for any of our product candidates, we cannot begin to market or sell them. As a result, it will be difficult for us to forecast demand for our products with any degree of certainty. It is also difficult to predict the timing of the achievement of various milestones under our strategic relationships. In addition, we will be increasing our operating expenses as we develop product candidates and build commercial capabilities. Accordingly, we may experience significant, unanticipated quarterly losses. Because of these factors, our operating results in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline significantly. Our independent registered public accounting firm determined that a material weakness related to our internal controls and procedures existed, which could adversely impact our ability to report our consolidated financial results accurately and on a timely basis. As a result of numerous journal entry adjustments and corrections in connection with the audit of our 2004, 2003 and 2002 consolidated financial statements, and the past restatements of those consolidated financial statements, our independent registered public accounting firm communicated a reportable condition constituting a material weakness related to our internal control 23 Table of Contents over financial reporting. The financial statement restatements related to our accounting for revenue recognition, the recording of a contingent reverse stock split, and cash flow reporting of noncash deferred initial public offering costs. In connection with their audits of previous years, our independent registered public accounting firm made various recommendations to improve our financial reporting internal controls, including establishing formal technical accounting training for financial personnel, reviewing our internal financial and accounting resources, performing periodic detailed financial analysis of our German subsidiary’s financial results, documenting our conclusions on technical accounting issues and determinations on a timely basis and ensuring the technical proficiency of our audit committee to oversee our financial reporting function. We continue to address these issues and have taken actions related to all of these recommendations. For instance, we hired a Chief Financial Officer in the second quarter of 2004. We also hired a certified public accountant for our finance department in 2005. We have installed a new general ledger system and adopted stricter journal entry authorization procedures. We have improved documentation of our conclusions relating to technical accounting issues and determinations. Since we have had only limited experience with the improvements we have made to date, we cannot assure you that the steps we have taken to date or any future measures will fully remediate the material weakness identified by our independent registered public accounting firm or that we will be successful in implementing and maintaining adequate controls over our financial reporting in the future. We cannot assure you that new material weaknesses or reportable conditions in our financial reporting internal controls will not be discovered in the future. Any failure to remediate any reported material weaknesses or implement required new or improved internal controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements. Inadequate internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial statements, which could result in a decline in value for our stock. In addition, for 2006 we will currently be required to comply with Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and an attestation to, and testing and assessment of, our internal control over financial reporting by our independent registered public accounting firm. While we are executing a plan to ensure the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, our failure to satisfy the requirements of Section 404(a) on a timely basis could result in a decline in the value of our common stock. Our recurring losses and stockholders’ deficit has raised substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. EpiCept’s recurring losses from operations and EpiCept’s stockholders’ deficit raise substantial doubt about EpiCept’s ability to continue as a going concern and as a result EpiCept’s independent registered public accounting firm included an explanatory paragraph in its report on EpiCept’s consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005 with respect to this uncertainty. EpiCept will need to raise additional debt or equity capital to fund our product development efforts and to meet our obligations, including servicing our existing indebtedness and performing our contractual obligations under our license agreements and strategic alliances. In addition, the perception that we may not be able to continue as a going concern may cause others to choose not to deal with us due to concerns about our ability to meet our contractual obligations. Clinical and Regulatory Risks If we are unable to successfully design, conduct and complete clinical trials, we will not be able to obtain regulatory approval for product candidates, which could delay or prevent us from being able to generate revenue from product sales. We currently have no products for sale, and we cannot guarantee you that we will ever have marketable products. Before our product candidates can be commercialized, we or our partners must submit a NDA, to the FDA. The NDA must demonstrate that the product candidate is safe and effective in humans for its intended use. To support our NDAs, we or our partners must conduct extensive human tests, which are referred to as clinical trials. Satisfaction of all regulatory requirements typically takes many years and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. EpiCept currently has several product candidates in various stages of clinical testing. All of our product candidates are prone to the risks of failure inherent in drug development and testing. Product candidates in later-stage clinical trials may fail to show desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed through initial clinical testing. In addition, the data collected from clinical trials of our product candidates may not be sufficient to support FDA approval, or FDA officials could interpret the data differently than we do. The FDA may require us or our partners to conduct additional clinical testing, in which case we would have to expend additional time and resources. The approval process may also be delayed by changes in government regulation, future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy that occur prior to or during regulatory review. 24 Table of Contents Any failure or significant delay in completing clinical trials for our product candidates, or in receiving regulatory approval for the sale of our product candidates, may severely harm our business and delay or prevent us from being able to generate revenue from product sales, and our stock price will likely decline. We may not obtain regulatory clearance to market our product candidates on a timely basis, or at all. Our product candidates will be subject to extensive government regulations related to development, clinical trials, manufacturing and commercialization. The process of obtaining FDA, EMEA, and other governmental and similar international regulatory approvals is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. Even if we believe that preclinical and clinical data are sufficient to support regulatory approval for a drug candidate, the FDA, EMEA and similar international regulatory authorities may not ultimately approve the candidate for commercial sale in any jurisdiction. The FDA, EMEA or similar international regulators may refuse to approve an application for approval of a drug candidate if they believe that applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied. The FDA, EMEA or similar international regulators may also require additional testing for safety and efficacy. Any failure or delay in obtaining these approvals could prohibit or delay us from marketing product candidates. If our product candidates do not meet applicable regulatory requirements for approval, we may not have the financial resources to continue research and development of these product candidates, and we may not generate revenues from the commercial sale of any of our products. Clinical trial designs that were discussed with regulatory authorities prior to their commencement may subsequently be considered insufficient for approval at the time of application for regulatory approval. We or our partners discuss with and obtain guidance from regulatory authorities on clinical trial protocols. Over the course of conducting clinical trials, circumstances may change, such as standards of safety, efficacy or medical practice, which could affect regulatory authorities’ perception of the adequacy of any of our clinical trial designs or the data we develop from our studies. Changes in circumstances could affect our ability to conduct clinical trials as planned. Even with successful clinical safety and efficacy data, we may be required to conduct additional, expensive trials to obtain regulatory approval. For example, in May 2004, Maxim announced the results of an international Phase III clinical trial testing the combination of Ceplene plus IL-2 in patients with acute myeloid leukemia, or AML, in complete remission. The primary endpoint of the Phase III trials was achieved using intent-to-treat analysis, as patients treated with the Ceplene plus IL-2 combination therapy experienced a statistically significant increase in leukemia-free survival compared to patients in the control arm of the trial. In January 2005, Maxim announced that based on ongoing correspondence with the FDA, as well as consultations with external advisors, it determined that an additional Phase III clinical trial would be necessary to further evaluate Ceplene plus IL-2 combination therapy for the treatment of AML patients in complete remission before applying for regulatory approval in the United States. We currently anticipate filing an application for approval in Europe during the first half of 2006 based on the results of Maxim’s AML clinical trial. However, we have no assurance that (i) the EMEA or similar regulatory agencies will not require an additional Phase III trial, (ii) the EMEA or similar regulatory agencies would approve regulatory filings for drug approval, or (iii) if an additional Phase III trial is required, that the results from such additional Phase III trial would confirm the results from the first Phase III trial. If we receive regulatory approval, our marketed products will also be subject to ongoing FDA obligations and continued regulatory review, and if we fail to comply with these regulations, we could lose approvals to market any products, and our business would be seriously harmed. Following initial regulatory approval of any of our product candidates, we will be subject to continuing regulatory review, including review of adverse experiences and clinical results that are reported after our products become commercially available. This would include results from any post-marketing tests or vigilance required as a condition of approval. The manufacturer and manufacturing facilities we use to make any of our product candidates will also be subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies. If a previously unknown problem or problems with a product, manufacturing or laboratory facility used by us is discovered, the FDA or foreign regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product or on the manufacturing facility, including requiring us to withdraw the product from the market. Any changes to an approved product, including the way it is manufactured or promoted, often require FDA approval before the product, as modified, can be marketed. We and our manufacturers will be subject to ongoing FDA requirements for submission of safety and other post-market information. If we and our manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: • issue warning letters; • impose civil or criminal penalties; 25 Table of Contents • suspend or withdraw regulatory approval; • suspend any ongoing clinical trials; • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications; • impose restrictions on operations; • close the facilities of manufacturers; or • seize or detain products or require a product recall. In addition, the policies of the FDA or other applicable regulatory agencies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature, or extent of adverse government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. Even if the FDA approves our product candidates, the approval will be limited to those indications and conditions for which we are able to show clinical safety and efficacy. Any regulatory approval that we may receive for our current or future product candidates will be limited to those diseases and indications for which such product candidates are clinically demonstrated to be safe and effective. In addition to the FDA approval required for new formulations, any new indication to an approved product also requires FDA approval. If we are not able to obtain FDA approval for a broad range of indications for our product candidates, our ability to effectively market and sell our product candidates may be greatly reduced and may harm our ability to generate revenue. While physicians may choose to prescribe drugs for uses that are not described in the product’s labeling and for uses that differ from those tested in clinical studies and approved by regulatory authorities, our regulatory approvals will be limited to those indications that are specifically submitted to the FDA for review. These “off-label” uses are common across medical specialties and may constitute the best treatment for many patients in varied circumstances. Regulatory authorities in the United States generally do not regulate the behavior of physicians in their choice of treatments. Regulatory authorities do, however, restrict communications by pharmaceutical companies on the subject of off-label use. If our promotional activities fail to comply with these regulations or guidelines, we may be subject to warnings from, or enforcement action by, these authorities. In addition, our failure to follow FDA rules and guidelines relating to promotion and advertising may cause the FDA to delay its approval or refuse to approve a product, the suspension or withdrawal of an approved product from the market, recalls, fines, disgorgement of money, operating restrictions, injunctions or criminal prosecutions, any of which could harm our business. The results of our clinical trials are uncertain, which could substantially delay or prevent us from bringing our product candidates to market. Before we can obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate, we must undertake extensive clinical testing in humans to demonstrate safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA or other regulatory agencies. Clinical trials are very expensive and difficult to design and implement. The clinical trial process is also time consuming. The commencement and completion of our clinical trials could be delayed or prevented by several factors, including: • delays in obtaining regulatory approvals to commence or continue a study; • delays in reaching agreement on acceptable clinical trial parameters; • slower than expected rates of patient recruitment and enrollment; • inability to demonstrate effectiveness or statistically significant results in our clinical trials; • unforeseen safety issues; 26 Table of Contents • uncertain dosing issues; • inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment; and • inability or unwillingness of medical investigators to follow our clinical protocols. We cannot assure you that our planned clinical trials will begin or be completed on time or at all, or that they will not need to be restructured prior to completion. Significant delays in clinical testing will impede our ability to commercialize our product candidates and generate revenue from product sales and could materially increase our development costs. Completion of clinical trials may take several years or more, but the length of time generally varies according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of a drug candidate. The cost of clinical trials may vary significantly over the life of a project as a result of differences arising during clinical development, including: • the number of sites included in the trials; • the length of time required to enroll suitable patient subjects; • the number of patients that participate in the trials; • the number of doses that patients receive; • the duration of follow-up with the patient; • the product candidate’s phase of development; and • the efficacy and safety profile of the product. The use of FDA-approved therapeutics in certain of our product candidates could require us to conduct additional preclinical studies and clinical trials, which could increase development costs and lengthen the regulatory approval process. Certain of our product candidates utilize proprietary formulations and topical delivery technologies to administer FDA-approved pain management therapeutics. Although the therapeutics utilized in our product candidates are FDA-approved, we may still be required to conduct preclinical studies and clinical trials to determine if our product candidates are safe and effective. In addition, we may also be required to conduct additional preclinical studies and Phase I clinical trials to establish the safety of the topical delivery of these therapeutics and the level of absorption of the therapeutics into the bloodstream. The FDA may also require us to conduct clinical studies to establish that our delivery mechanisms are safer or more effective than the existing methods for delivering these therapeutics. As a result, we may be required to conduct complex clinical trials, which could be expensive and time-consuming and lengthen the anticipated regulatory approval process. In some instances, we rely on third parties, over which we have little or no control, to conduct clinical trials for our products and their failure to perform their obligations in a timely or competent manner may delay development and commercialization of our product candidates. The nature of clinical trials and our business strategy requires us to rely on clinical research centers and other contractors to assist us with clinical testing and certain research and development activities, such as our agreement with Myriad related to the MX90745 series of apoptosis-inducer anti-cancer compounds. As a result, our success is dependent upon the success of these outside parties in performing their responsibilities. Although we believe the contractors are economically motivated to perform on their contractual obligations, we cannot directly control the adequacy and timeliness of the resources and expertise applied to these activities by such contractors. If such contractors do not perform their activities in an adequate or timely manner, the development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed. Pursuant to our license agreement with Adolor for LidoPAIN SP, Adolor is responsible for conducting clinical studies relating to LidoPAIN SP in North America. In addition, Adolor has the exclusive control over, and authority and responsibility for, the North American regulatory strategies relating to LidoPAIN SP, including the preparation and filing of all documents submitted to the FDA. In addition, we expect to rely on our agreement with Myriad related to the MX90745 series of apoptosis-inducer anti-cancer 27 Table of Contents compounds. We may enter into similar agreements from time to time with additional third parties for our other product candidates whereby these third parties undertake significant responsibility for research, clinical trials or other aspects of obtaining FDA approval. As a result, we may face delays if Adolor or these additional third parties do not conduct clinical studies and trials, or prepare or file regulatory related documents, in a timely or competent fashion. The conduct of the clinical studies by, and the regulatory strategies of, Adolor or these additional third parties, over which we have limited or no control, may delay or prevent regulatory approval of our product candidates, which would delay or limit our ability to generate revenue from product sales. Risks Relating to Commercialization If we fail to enter into and maintain successful strategic alliances for our product candidates, we may have to reduce or delay our product commercialization or increase our expenditures. Our strategy for developing, manufacturing and commercializing potential product candidates in multiple therapeutic areas currently requires us to enter into and successfully maintain strategic alliances with pharmaceutical companies that have product development resources and expertise, established distribution systems and direct sales forces to advance our development programs and reduce our expenditures on each development program and market any products that we may develop. EpiCept has formed a strategic alliance with Adolor with respect to EpiCept’s LidoPAIN SP product candidate and with Endo with respect to EpiCept’s LidoPAIN BP product candidate and with Myriad with respect to the MX90745 series of apoptosis-inducer anti-cancer compounds. Although we have ongoing discussions with other companies with respect to certain of our product candidates, we may not be able to negotiate additional strategic alliances on acceptable terms, or at all. We intend to rely on collaborative partners to market and sell Ceplene in international markets, if approved for sale in such markets. We have not yet entered into any collaborative arrangements with respect to marketing or selling Ceplene with the exception of agreements relating to Australia, New Zealand and Israel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into any such arrangements on terms favorable to us, or at all. If we are unable to maintain our existing strategic alliances or establish and maintain additional strategic alliances, we may have to limit the size or scope of, or delay, one or more of our product development or commercialization programs, or undertake the various activities at our own expense. In addition, our dependence on strategic alliances is subject to a number of risks, including: • the inability to control the amount or timing of resources that our collaborators may devote to developing the product candidates; • the possibility that we may be required to relinquish important rights, including intellectual property, marketing and distribution rights; • the receipt of lower revenues than if we were to commercialize such products ourselves; • our failure to receive future milestone payments or royalties should a collaborator fail to commercialize one of our product candidates successfully; • the possibility that a collaborator could separately move forward with a competing product candidate developed either independently or in collaboration with others, including our competitors; • the possibility that our collaborators may experience financial difficulties; • business combinations or significant changes in a collaborator’s business strategy that may adversely affect that collaborator’s willingness or ability to complete its obligations under any arrangement; and • the chance that our collaborators may operate in countries where their operations could be negatively impacted by changes in the local regulatory environment or by political unrest. 28 Table of Contents If the market does not accept and use our product candidates, we will not achieve sufficient product revenues and our business will suffer. Even if we receive regulatory approval to market our product candidates, physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community may not accept and use them. The degree of market acceptance and use of any approved products will depend on a number of factors, including: • perceptions by members of the healthcare community, including physicians, about the safety and effectiveness of our products; • cost effectiveness of our products relative to competing products; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • availability of reimbursement for our products from government or healthcare payors; and • effectiveness of marketing and distribution efforts by us and our licensees and distributors. Because we expect to rely on sales and royalties generated by our current lead product candidates for a substantial portion of our product revenues for the foreseeable future, the failure of any of these drugs to find market acceptance would harm our business and could require us to seek additional funding to continue our other development programs. Our product candidates could be rendered obsolete by technological change and medical advances, which would adversely affect the performance of our business. Our product candidates may be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by the development of medical advances to treat the conditions that our product candidates are designed to address. Pain management therapeutics are the subject of active research and development by many potential competitors, including major pharmaceutical companies, specialized biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions. While we will seek to expand our technological capabilities to remain competitive, research and development by others may render our technology or product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive or result in treatments or cures superior to any therapy we developed. Technological advances affecting costs of production could also harm our ability to cost-effectively produce and sell products. We have no manufacturing capacity and anticipate continued reliance on third parties for the manufacture of our product candidates. We do not currently operate manufacturing facilities for our product candidates. We lack the resources and the capabilities to manufacture any of our product candidates. We currently rely on a single contract manufacturer for each product candidate to supply, store and distribute drug supplies for our clinical trials. Any performance failure or delay on the part of our existing manufacturers could delay clinical development or regulatory approval of our product candidates and commercialization of our drugs, producing additional losses and depriving us of potential product revenues. If the FDA or other regulatory agencies approve any of our product candidates for commercial sale, the product will need to be manufactured in larger quantities. Since to date our product candidates have only been manufactured in small quantities for preclinical and clinical trials, our third party manufacturers may not be able to successfully increase their manufacturing capacity in a timely or economical manner, or at all. We may be forced to identify alternative or additional third party manufacturers, which may prove difficult because the number of potential manufacturers is limited and the FDA must approve any replacement contractor prior to manufacturing our products. Such approval would require new testing and compliance inspections. In addition, a new manufacturer would have to be educated in, or develop substantially equivalent processes for, production of our product candidates. It may be difficult or impossible for us to find a replacement manufacturer on acceptable terms quickly, or at all. If we are unable to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for a drug candidate in a timely and economical manner, the regulatory approval or commercial launch of any related products may be delayed or there may be a shortage in supply, both of which may have an adverse effect on our business. Our product candidates require precise, high quality manufacturing. A failure to achieve and maintain high manufacturing standards, including the incidence of manufacturing errors, could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously hurt our business. Manufacturers 29 Table of Contents often encounter difficulties involving production yields, quality control and quality assurance, as well as shortages of qualified personnel. These manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency, or DEA, and corresponding state agencies to ensure strict compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice and other applicable government regulations and corresponding foreign standards; however, we do not have control over third party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. If one of our manufacturers fails to maintain compliance, the production of our product candidates could be interrupted, resulting in delays, additional costs and potentially lost revenues. Additionally, third-party manufacturers must pass a preapproval inspection before we can obtain marketing approval for any of our products in development. Furthermore, our existing and future contract manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to successfully produce, store and distribute our product candidates. Even if any third party manufacturer or licensee makes improvements in the manufacturing process for our product candidates, we may not own, or may have to share, the intellectual property rights to such innovation. In the event of a natural disaster, equipment failure, power failure, strike or other difficulty, we may be unable to replace our third party manufacturers in a timely manner. We may be the subject of costly product liability claims or product recalls, and we may be unable to obtain or maintain insurance adequate to cover potential liabilities. The risk of product liability is inherent in the development, manufacturing and marketing of human therapeutic products. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: • delays in, or failure to complete, our clinical trials; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • decreased demand for our product candidates; • injury to our reputation; • litigation costs; • substantial monetary awards against us; and • diversion of management or other resources from key aspects of our operations. If we succeed in marketing our products, product liability claims could result in an FDA investigation of the safety or efficacy of our products or our marketing programs. An FDA investigation could also potentially lead to a recall of our products or more serious enforcement actions, or limitations on the indications for which our products may be used, or suspension or withdrawal of approval. Although we currently maintain product liability insurance that covers our clinical trials, we cannot be certain that the coverage limits of the insurance policies or those of our strategic partners will be adequate. We further intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if marketing approval is obtained for our product candidates. However, insurance coverage is increasingly expensive. We may not be able to obtain additional insurance or maintain our existing insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or at all. If we are unable to obtain sufficient insurance at an acceptable cost or if a claim is brought against us, whether fully covered by insurance or not, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The coverage and reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare drugs is uncertain and failure to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement could limit our ability to market our products. Our ability to commercialize any products successfully will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement will be available from governmental and other third-party payors, both in the United States and in foreign markets. Even if we succeed in bringing one or more products to the market, the amount reimbursed for our products may be insufficient to allow them to compete effectively with products that are reimbursed at a higher level. If the price we are able to charge for any products we develop is inadequate in light of our development costs, our profitability would be reduced. 30 Table of Contents Reimbursement by a governmental and other third-party payor may depend upon a number of factors, including the governmental and other third-party payor’s determination that the use of a product is: • a covered benefit under its health plan; • safe, effective and medically necessary; • appropriate for the specific patient; • cost-effective; and • neither experimental nor investigational. Obtaining reimbursement approval for a product from each third-party and governmental payor is a time consuming and costly process that could require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost effectiveness data for the use of our products to each payor. We may not be able to provide data sufficient to obtain reimbursement. Eligibility for coverage does not imply that any drug product will be reimbursed in all cases or at a rate that allows us to make a profit. Interim payments for new products, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover our costs and may not become permanent. Reimbursement rates may vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on payments allowed for lower-cost drugs that are already reimbursed, may be incorporated into existing payments for other products or services and may reflect budgetary constraints and/or Medicare or Medicaid data used to calculate these rates. Net prices for products also may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs or by any future relaxation of laws that restrict imports of certain medical products from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the United States. The health care industry is experiencing a trend toward containing or reducing costs through various means, including lowering reimbursement rates, limiting therapeutic class coverage and negotiating reduced payment schedules with service providers for drug products. There have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, federal and state proposals to constrain expenditures for medical products and services, which may affect reimbursement levels for our future products. In addition, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services frequently change product descriptors, coverage policies, product and service codes, payment methodologies and reimbursement values. Third-party payors often follow Medicare coverage policies and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates and may have sufficient market power to demand significant price reductions. Foreign governments tend to impose strict price controls, which may adversely affect our future profitability. In some foreign countries, particularly in the European Union, prescription drug pricing is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our product candidates to other available therapies. If reimbursement of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our profitability would be reduced. Risks Relating to the Our Business and Industry Our failure to attract and retain skilled personnel could impair our product development and commercialization efforts. Our success is substantially dependent on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management, scientific and technical personnel and our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with leading institutions, clinicians and scientists. We will be highly dependent upon our key management personnel, particularly John V. Talley, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Robert Cook, our Chief Financial Officer and Dr. Ben Tseng, our Chief Scientific Officer. We will also be dependent on certain scientific and technical personnel. The loss of the services of any member of senior management, or scientific or technical staff may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of product development, commercialization and other business objectives. Messrs. Talley and Cook have entered into employment agreements with EpiCept. However, either of them may decide to voluntarily terminate his employment with us. We will not maintain key-man life insurance on any of our employees. 31 Table of Contents We believe that we will need to recruit additional management and technical personnel. There is currently a shortage of, and intense competition for, skilled executives and employees with relevant scientific and technical expertise, and this shortage is likely to continue. The inability to attract and retain sufficient scientific, technical and managerial personnel could limit or delay our product development efforts, which would reduce our ability to successfully commercialize product candidates and our business. We expect to expand our operations, and as a result, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth, which could disrupt our operations. We expect to have significant growth in the scope of our operations as our product candidates are commercialized. To manage our anticipated future growth, we must implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems, expand facilities and recruit and train additional qualified personnel. Due to our limited resources, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. The physical expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert management and business development resources. Any inability to manage growth could delay the execution of our business strategy or disrupt our operations. Our competitors may develop and market drugs that are less expensive, safer, or more effective, which may diminish or eliminate the commercial success of any of our product candidates. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive and characterized by rapid technological change. Because we anticipate that our research approach will integrate many technologies, it may be difficult for us to stay abreast of the rapid changes in technology. If we fail to stay at the forefront of technological change, we will be unable to compete effectively. Our competitors may render our technologies obsolete by advances in existing technological approaches or the development of different approaches by one or more of our current or future competitors. We will compete with Pfizer and Endo in the treatment of neuropathic pain; Purdue Pharmaceuticals, Johnson & Johnson and Endo in the treatment of post-operative pain; and Johnson & Johnson and others in the treatment of back pain. There are also many companies, both publicly and privately held, including well-known pharmaceutical companies and academic and other research institutions, engaged in developing pharmaceutical products for the treatment of life-threatening cancers and liver diseases. Our competitors may: • develop and market product candidates that are less expensive and more effective than our future product candidates; • adapt more quickly to new technologies and scientific advances; • commercialize competing product candidates before we or our partners can launch any product candidates developed from our product candidates; • initiate or withstand substantial price competition more successfully than we can; • have greater success in recruiting skilled scientific workers from the limited pool of available talent; • more effectively negotiate third party licenses and strategic alliances; and • take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities more readily than we can. We will compete for market share against fully-integrated pharmaceutical companies and smaller companies that are collaborating with larger pharmaceutical companies, new companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. Many of these competitors, either alone or together with their partners, may develop new product candidates that will compete with our product candidates, as these competitors may operate larger research and development programs or have substantially greater financial resources than us. Our competitors may also have significantly greater experience in: • developing drugs; • undertaking preclinical testing and human clinical trials; 32 Table of Contents • building relationships with key customers and opinion-leading physicians; • obtaining and maintaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of drugs; • formulating and manufacturing drugs; and • launching, marketing and selling drugs. These and other competitive factors may negatively impact our financial performance. EpiCept GmbH, our German subsidiary, is subject to various risks associated with its international operations. Our subsidiary, EpiCept GmbH, operates in Germany, and we face a number of risks associated with its operations, including: • difficulties and costs associated in complying with German laws and regulations; • changes in the German regulatory environment; • increased costs associated with operating in Germany; • increased costs and complexities associated with financial reporting; and • difficulties in maintaining international operations. Expenses incurred by our German operations are typically denominated in euros. In addition, EpiCept GmbH has incurred indebtedness that is denominated in euros and requires that interest be paid in euros. As a result, our costs of maintaining and operating our German subsidiary, and the interest payments and costs of repaying its indebtedness, increase if the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro declines. Risks Relating to Intellectual Property If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our competitors could develop and market products with features similar to our products and demand for our products may decline. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection of our technologies and product candidates as well as successfully defending these patents and trade secrets against third party challenges. We will only be able to protect our intellectual property from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable patents or trade secrets cover them. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. In addition, changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States or other countries may diminish the value of the combined organization’s intellectual property. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in third party patents. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example: • we might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of its pending patent applications and issued patents, and we could lose our patent rights as a result; • we might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions or our patent applications may not have been timely filed, and we could lose our patent rights as a result; 33 Table of Contents • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • it is possible that none of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents; • our issued patents may not provide a basis for commercially viable drugs or therapies, may not provide us with any protection from unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and may not provide us with any competitive advantages; • our patent applications or patents may be subject to interference, opposition or similar administrative proceedings; • we organization may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or • the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business. Moreover, the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability and it is uncertain how much protection, if any, will be afforded by our patents if we attempt to enforce them and they are challenged in court or in other proceedings, such as oppositions, which may be brought in U.S. or foreign jurisdictions to challenge the validity of a patent. A third party may challenge the validity or enforceability of a patent after its issuance by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO. It is possible that a third party could attempt to challenge the validity or enforceability of EpiCept’s two issued patents related to LidoPAIN SP based upon a short videotape prepared by the inventor more than one year prior to the filing of the initial patent application related to LidoPAIN SP. It is possible that a third party could attempt to challenge the validity and enforceability of these patents based on the videotape and/or its nondisclosure to the USPTO. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, interferences, oppositions and related legal and administrative proceedings in the United States are costly, time consuming to pursue and result in diversion of resources. The outcome of these proceedings is uncertain and could significantly harm our business. We will also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we will use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific partners and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose its confidential information to competitors. Enforcing a claim that a third party improperly obtained and is using our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. If we are not able to defend the patent protection position of our technologies and product candidates, then we will not be able to exclude competitors from marketing product candidates that directly compete with our product candidates, and we may not generate enough revenue from our product candidates to justify the cost of their development and to achieve or maintain profitability. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, such litigation will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome could increase our costs or have a negative impact on our business. Our ability to commercialize our products depends on our ability to sell our products without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending applications, which are owned by third parties, exist with respect to the therapeutics utilized in our product candidates and topical delivery mechanisms. Because we are utilizing existing therapeutics, we will continue to need to ensure that we can utilize these therapeutics without infringing existing patent rights. Accordingly, we have reviewed related patents known to us and, in some instances, licensed related patented technologies. In addition, because patent applications can take several years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that the combined organization’s product candidates may infringe. There could also be existing patents of which we are not aware that our product candidates may inadvertently infringe. Although we are not aware that any of our product candidates infringe the intellectual property of others, they cannot assure you that this is the case. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the 34 Table of Contents biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claims that we infringe on their technology, we could face a number of issues that could increase its costs or have a negative impact on its business, including: • infringement and other intellectual property claims which, with or without merit, can be costly and time consuming to litigate and can delay the regulatory approval process and divert management’s attention from our core business strategy; • substantial damages for past infringement, which we may have to pay if a court determines that our products infringes a competitor’s patent; • an injunction prohibiting us from selling or licensing our product unless the patent holder licenses the patent to us, which the holder is not required to do; and • if a license is available from a patent holder, we may have to pay substantial royalties or grant cross licenses to our patents. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Many of our employees were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that we or these employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary claims, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize certain product candidates, which could severely harm our business. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. 35 Table of Contents Risks Relating to our Common Stock We expect that our stock price will fluctuate significantly due to external factors. Our common stock trades on the Nasdaq National Market and on the OM Stockholm Exchange. Prior to January 4, 2006, our common stock did not trade on an exchange. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the prevailing market prices of the common stock and our ability to raise equity capital in the future. The volatility of biopharmaceutical stocks often does not relate to the operating performance of the companies represented by the stock. Factors that could cause this volatility in the market price of our common stock include: • results from and any delays in our clinical trial programs; • announcements concerning our collaborations with Adolor and Endo or future strategic alliances; • delays in the development and commercialization of our product candidates due to inadequate allocation of resources by our strategic collaborators or otherwise; • market conditions in the broader stock market in general, or in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors in particular; • issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations; • actual and anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial and operating results; • developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or proprietary rights; • introduction of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; • additions or departures of key personnel; • FDA or international regulatory actions affecting us or our industry; • issues in manufacturing our product candidates; • market acceptance of our product candidates; • third party healthcare reimbursement policies; and • litigation or public concern about the safety of our product candidates. These and other factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise reduce the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. If the ownership of our common stock continues to be highly concentrated, it may prevent stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and may result in conflicts of interest that could cause our stock price to decline. Our executive officers, directors and their affiliates will beneficially own or control approximately 22.53% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Accordingly, these executive officers, directors and their affiliates, acting as a group, will have substantial influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transactions. These stockholders may also delay or prevent a change of control of us, even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders. The 36 Table of Contents significant concentration of stock ownership may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline due to investor perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about the combined organization’s business, if they change their recommendations regarding our stock adversely or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, the combined our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline. Future sales of common stock by our existing stockholders may cause our stock price to fall. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by our then existing stockholders in the market after the completion of the merger, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Provisions of our charter documents or Delaware law could delay or prevent an acquisition of us, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and could make it more difficult for you to change management. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. This is because these provisions may prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors; • a prohibition on stockholder action through written consent; • a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called only by the board of directors or a committee duly designated by the board of directors whose powers and authorities include the power to call such special meetings; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; and • the authority of the board of directors to issue preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person that together with its affiliates owns or within the last three years has owned 15% of voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, Section 203 may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us. As a result of these provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law, the price investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock may be limited. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and distract management. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the listing requirements of the Nasdaq National Market and the OM Stockholm Exchange The obligations of being a public company will require significant additional expenditures and will place additional demands on our management as we comply with the reporting requirements of a public company. We may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. 37 Table of Contents We have never paid dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid cash dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date, and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our businesses. In addition, the terms of existing or any future debt may preclude us from paying these dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Maxim has been named as a defendant in litigation that could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. In October 2001 and May 2002, certain former stockholders of Cytovia filed complaints in California Superior Court in San Diego, against Maxim and two of Maxim’s officers, alleging fraud and negligent misrepresentation in connection with Maxim’s acquisition of Cytovia. A binding arbitration proceeding with the American Arbitration Association was held in May 2003. The three-member arbitration panel rejected all of the plaintiffs’ claims, determined that Maxim has no liability for such claims and awarded recovery of Maxim’s reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs of approximately $922,000 as prevailing party in the proceedings. In December 2003, the decision was confirmed by the Superior Court, which entered a judgment to this effect. In June 2004, the plaintiffs filed an appeal. In December 2004, the Court of Appeal reversed the judgment of the Superior Court and remanded the lawsuit to the trial court for further proceedings. Maxim has filed a petition to the United States Supreme Court seeking further appellate review. In October 2005, Maxim learned that the United States Supreme Court denied Maxim’s request for review. Maxim’s demurrer was overruled, and the defendants filed an answer that denies all material allegations in the amended complaint. The case has been set for trial on June 30, 2006, and the defendants intend to vigorously defend themselves against these claims. The Company will continue to vigorously defend the underlying claims back in the Superior Court. On September 21, 2004, plaintiff Dr. Richard Bassin, on behalf of himself and purportedly on behalf of a class of others similarly situated, filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California against Maxim, Larry G. Stambaugh, Maxim’s President and Chief Executive Officer, and Anthony E. Altig, Maxim’s former Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer, for alleged violations of federal securities laws related to declines in Maxim’s stock price in connection with various statements and alleged omissions to the public and to the securities markets during the class period from November 11, 2002 to September 17, 2004, and seeking damages therefore. Thereafter two similar complaints were filed in the Southern District of California. These three actions were consolidated and in March 2005, plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint. No discovery has been conducted. In October 2005, the United States District Court for the Southern District of California granted the Company’s motion to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint, but granted plaintiffs leave to amend. It is possible that the plaintiffs will exercise their right to file an amended complaint. The cases have been tendered to Maxim’s insurance carrier, Carolina Casualty, which has denied coverage. Maxim disputes the position taken by Maxim’s insurance carrier and fully intends to enforce Maxim’s rights under the policy. On October 7, 2004, plaintiff Jesus Putnam, purportedly on behalf of Maxim, filed a derivative complaint in the Superior Court for the State of California, County of San Diego, against Larry G. Stambaugh, Anthony E. Altig, Kurt R. Gehlsen, former Senior Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer, and Maxim’s entire Board of Directors for alleged breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, gross mismanagement, waste of corporate assets, unjust enrichment and violations of the California Corporations Code, all of which arise from allowing purported violations of federal securities laws related to declines in Maxim’s stock price in connection with various statements and alleged omissions to the public and to the securities markets, and seeking damages therefore. No discovery has been conducted, and the parties have entered into a stipulation to stay the action pending resolution of a motion to dismiss the federal actions. On October 5, 2005, plaintiff attempted to file an amended complaint to include class action allegations that defendants breached their fiduciary duties by approving the merger. In addition, the plaintiff has requested that the court enjoin Maxim’s directors from completing the merger with EpiCept. The amended complaint was rejected by the court, pending the lifting of the stay. The complaint has been tendered to Maxim’s insurance carrier, which has denied coverage. Maxim disputes the position taken by Maxim’s insurance carrier and fully intends to enforce Maxim’s rights under the policy. On May 3, 2005, plaintiff Carolina Casualty Insurance Company filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California against Larry G. Stambaugh, Anthony E. Altig, Kurt R. Gehlsen, and Maxim’s entire Board of Directors, seeking a declaratory judgment from the court that Maxim’s D&O insurance policy did not cover losses arising from the state and federal stockholder suits that were filed in 2004. Maxim answered the complaint and filed counterclaims against Carolina Casualty. No discovery has been conducted and the court has issued a stay of the entire proceedings, pending certain events in the federal suit filed by Richard Bassin. 38 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED SEC STAFF COMMENTS We have no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2005 fiscal year that remain unresolved. 