Risk Factors. The pre-FOC balance will be recognized over the 10.5 years from the launch of WorldView-1. We recognize it ratably over the estimated satellite life, but the recognition of this revenue has no effect on our ability to generate additional net revenue from the usage of our satellite and should not be considered a reduction in our capacity to generate additional sales. Although backlog reflects business that is considered to be firm, terminations, amendments or cancellations may occur which could result in a reduction in our total backlog. In addition, failure to receive task orders under IDIQ contracts could also result in a reduction in our total backlog. Any such terminations, amendments or cancellations of contractual commitments, failure to receive task orders under IDIQ contracts or capacity constraints may also negatively impact the timing of our realization of backlog. Employees As of December 31, 2012, we had 749 full-time equivalent employees. We currently do not have any collective bargaining agreements with our employees. We have employment agreements with certain of our key employees. Environmental Regulation Our operations are regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws governing the environment, including laws governing the discharge of pollutants into the soil, air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We have infrastructures in place to ensure that our operations are in compliance with all applicable environmental regulations. We do not believe that the costs of compliance with these laws and regulations will have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, operating results or competitive position. The imposition of more stringent standards or requirements under environmental laws or regulations or a determination that we are responsible for the release of hazardous substances at our sites could result in expenditures in excess of amounts currently estimated to be required for such matters. While no material exposures have been identified to date that we are aware of, there can be no assurance that additional environmental matters will not arise in the future or that costs will not be incurred with respect to sites as to which no problem is currently known. Company Website Our website can be accessed at www.digitalglobe.com. The website contains information about us and our operations. Through a link on the Investor Relations section of our website, copies of our filings with the SEC on Forms 8-K, 10-Q and 10-K can be viewed and downloaded free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports have been filed with the SEC. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference and is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our principal executive offices are located at 1601 Dry Creek Drive, Suite 260, Longmont, Colorado, 80503 12 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Our business is subject to many risks. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects, results of operations and cash flows. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related To Our Business The loss or reduction in scope of any one of our primary contracts will materially reduce our net revenue. The majority of our net revenue is currently derived from a single contract with a U.S. government agency that can be terminated at any time. Approximately 76.4% of our net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012 was derived from our top five customers, including NGA, which accounted for 60.8% of our net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012. These contracts may be terminated in the future, or may not be renewed or extended, and the loss of any one of these customers would materially reduce our net revenue and could have a material adverse effect on our business financial condition and results of operations. Our contracts with U.S. government agencies are subject to risks of termination or reduction in scope due to changes in U.S. government policies, priorities or funding level commitments to various agencies. Under the EnhancedView SLA, we are obligated to make a portion of the image tasking capacity of the WorldView constellation available to NGA, including specified priority access rights. To support requirements under the EnhancedView contract, we began constructing our WorldView-3 satellite in September 2010, we are investing in infrastructure to integrate certain of our operations more closely with NGA and we are engaged in the expansion of our global network of remote ground terminals. As part of EnhancedView, we had previously agreed with NGA that we would lower the altitude of WorldView-2 from its current altitude of 770 km to an altitude of 680 km in September 2011. In August 2011 NGA notified us that it was waiving its right to require us to lower WorldView-2 in September 2011. NGA continues to have the option to require us to lower the altitude of WorldView-2 to 496 km at any time after September 1, 2013, subject to receipt of all required regulatory approvals. The lowering of the orbital altitude would result in a decrease in the amount of square kilometers collected by WorldView-2. While we believe the decrease in collection capability would be offset by improved data capture capabilities on the ground resulting from the expansion of our ground terminal network, there can be no assurance that our current collection capability will be maintained. Our ability to service other customers could be negatively impacted if we are unable to maintain our current collection capacity. In addition, any inability on our part to meet the performance requirements of the EnhancedView contract could result in a breach of our contract with NGA. A breach of our contract with NGA or reduction in service to our other clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. NGA may also terminate or suspend our contracts, including EnhancedView, at any time with or without cause. Although our NGA contracts generally involve fixed annual minimum commitments, such commitments are subject to annual Congressional appropriations and the federal budget process, and as a result, NGA may not continue to fund these contracts at current or anticipated levels. In addition, the sequestration process under the Budget Control Act of 2011 (PL 112-25) could have an adverse impact on the timing and amount of appropriations available for defense programs, including EnhancedView. Under the terms of the Budget Control Act, discretionary spending is capped, and any breach of the caps would result in automatic, across-the-board spending cuts, known as sequestration. The Budget Control Act assumed that spending cap recommendations would be recommended to Congress by the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction. This Committee failed to come to agreement, and accordingly sequestration may be implemented during 2013. Upon implementation, sequestration would be implemented by the Office of Management and Budget every January with the submission of the President’s budget over the next decade. This will result in reductions of approximately $600 million in Department of Defense budgets over the Fiscal Year 2013-2021 period compared to currently 13 Table of Contents projected budget levels. We cannot tell you how those cuts may affect the EnhancedView contract or other current or future business with the Department of Defense. Reductions in the current EnhancedView program or other current or future business with the Department of Defense resulting from sequestration could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations Any program delays encountered in implementing the infrastructure enhancements required to support the EnhancedView contract, or in the construction, launch and operational commissioning of our WorldView-3 satellite may affect our ability to meet our obligations under the EnhancedView contract resulting in a reduction of scope or termination of the contract, and may otherwise require us to increase our reliance on our existing satellites to meet our business needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. To support requirements under the EnhancedView contract, we have contracted for and are in the process of building our WorldView-3 satellite. We currently expect to launch and commission WorldView-3 in the second half of 2014. The manufacturing, testing and launch of satellites involves complex processes and technology. We rely on third party contractors for the manufacturing, testing and launch of our satellites, including WorldView-3. Many factors, including, but not limited to, availability of parts, subcontractor and supplier delays and anomalies discovered during testing, may result in significant delays to the WorldView-3 program. In addition, while we have contracted with Lockheed Martin Commercial Launch Services for the launch of WorldView-3 in the second half of 2014, launch windows and specific dates, once scheduled, are subject to change and may be materially delayed for reasons beyond our control, including intervening launch failures of other satellites, reduced availability of launch facilities and support crew, and preemption by certain government launches. After launch, the satellite must be calibrated and tested to confirm operational capability, a commissioning process that typically takes several months. The satellite may not pass the operational commissioning tests or may not otherwise operate as required. For example, satellites may experience technical difficulties communicating with the ground terminal or collecting imagery in the same quality or volume that was intended. The failure to construct and launch WorldView-3 on time or to achieve operational commissioning on time or at all could affect our ability to meet our obligations under the EnhancedView contract and may otherwise limit the anticipated volume of imagery products and services available to meet our business needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the EnhancedView contract obligates us to meet certain capacity and timeliness of delivery requirements. To meet these requirements, we have expanded our network of ground terminals around the world. We added three new ground terminals in 2012. Breach of our system security measures or loss of our secure facility clearance and accreditation could result in interruption, delay or suspension of our ability to provide our products and services, and could result in loss of current and future business, including our U.S. government contracts. A breach of our system security could materially adversely affect our business. Our business involves the transmission and storage of large quantities of electronic data, including the imagery comprising our ImageLibrary. In addition, our business is becoming increasingly web-based, allowing our customers to access and take delivery of imagery from our ImageLibrary over the Internet. From time to time, we have experienced computer viruses and other forms of third party attacks on our systems that, to date, have not had a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot assure you, however, that future attacks will not materially adversely affect our business. Despite the implementation and continued upgrading of security measures, our network infrastructure may be vulnerable to computer viruses, unauthorized third party access or other problems caused by third parties, which could lead to interruptions, delays or suspension of our operations, loss of imagery from our ImageLibrary, as well as the loss or compromise of technical information or customer information. Inappropriate use of the Internet by third parties, including attempting to gain unauthorized access to information or systems – commonly known as “cracking” or “hacking” – could also potentially jeopardize the overall security of our systems and could deter certain customers from doing business with us. In addition, a security breach that 14 Table of Contents involved classified or other sensitive government information or certain controlled technical information, could subject us to civil or criminal penalties and could result in loss of our secure facility clearance and other accreditations, loss of our government contracts, loss of access to classified information, loss of export privileges or debarment as a government contractor. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to otherwise infect or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. We may also need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches. The risk that these types of events could seriously harm our business is likely to increase as we expand the number of web based products and services we offer as well as increase the number of countries within which we do business. Changes in U.S. government policy regarding use of commercial data providers, or material delay or cancellation of planned U.S. government EnhancedView programs may have a material adverse effect on our net revenue and our ability to achieve our growth objectives. Current U.S. government policy encourages the U.S. government’s use of commercial data providers to support U.S. national security objectives. We are considered by the U.S. government to be a commercial data provider. U.S. government policy is subject to change and any change in policy away from supporting the use of commercial data providers to meet U.S. government imagery needs could materially affect our net revenue and our ability to achieve our growth objectives. Risks related to acquisitions To integrate acquired businesses, including GeoEye, we must implement our management information systems, operating systems and internal controls and assimilate and manage the personnel of the acquired operations. The difficulties of this integration may be further complicated by geographic distances. The integration of acquired businesses, including GeoEye, may not be successful and could result in disruption to other parts of our business. Also, the integration of acquired businesses may require that we incur significant restructuring charges. Acquisitions involve numerous risks and challenges, including: • diversion of management’s attention from the normal operation of our business; • potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies; • disruption of business relationships with current customers; • uncertainties that may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel; • difficulties managing and integrating operations; • the potential for deficiencies in internal controls at acquired companies; • increases in our expenses and working capital requirements; and • exposure to unanticipated liabilities of acquired companies. Any future acquisitions may require additional equity financing, which could be dilutive to our existing shareholders, or additional debt financing, which could increase our leverage and potentially affect our credit ratings. Any downgrades in our credit ratings associated with an acquisition could adversely affect our ability to borrow by resulting in more restrictive borrowing terms. As a result of the foregoing, we also may not be able to complete acquisitions in the future. These and other factors may harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability at acquired operations or realize other anticipated benefits of an acquisition, and could adversely affect our business and operating results. 15 Table of Contents Our combination with GeoEye, which was completed on January 31, 2013, may not achieve its intended results, and we may be unable to successfully integrate their operations. We completed the combination with GeoEye with the expectation that the combination will result in various benefits for the combined company, including, among others, synergies resulting from cost savings and operating efficiencies. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the combination is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the respective businesses and assets of DigitalGlobe and GeoEye can be integrated in an efficient and effective manner. In particular, the integration of GeoEye into DigitalGlobe’s operations will be a significant undertaking and will require significant attention from our management team. It is possible that the integration process could take longer than anticipated and could result in the loss of valuable employees, the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses, processes and systems or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, policies and compensation arrangements, any of which could adversely affect the combined company’s ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the combination. The combined company’s results of operations could also be adversely affected by any issues attributable to either company’s operations that arise or are based on events or actions that occurred prior to the closing of the combination. As a result of the merger, DigitalGlobe will assume all of GeoEye’s liabilities, including contingent liabilities. The integration process is subject to a number of uncertainties, and no assurance can be given that the anticipated benefits will be realized or, if realized, the timing of their realization. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs or decreases in the amount of expected revenues and could adversely affect the combined company’s future business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. The merger with GeoEye will result in significant goodwill and other intangible assets being recorded on our balance sheet. If the carrying value of our goodwill or intangible assets is not recoverable, an impairment loss may be recognized, which would adversely affect our financial results. As a result of our merger with GeoEye, we will record goodwill and other intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet as of January 31, 2013. It is not possible at this time to determine if any future impairment would result, or if it does, whether such charge would be material to the remaining assets. If such a charge is necessary, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Pending litigation against us and GeoEye could result in the payment of damages and/or may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In connection with the merger, stockholders of GeoEye have filed three shareholder class action complaints for breach of fiduciary duties against GeoEye and its directors, DigitalGlobe, 20/20 Acquisition Sub, Inc. and WorldView, LLC in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia. On September 7, 2012, the court ordered the consolidation of the three actions. On September 24, 2012, a corrected amended complaint was filed in the consolidated actions seeking, among other things, to enjoin the merger. On October 9, 2012, following arm’s-length negotiations, the parties to the consolidated action entered into a memorandum of understanding (the “MOU”) to settle all claims asserted therein. The settlement set forth in the MOU is subject to, among other items, the completion of a confirmatory discovery, execution of a stipulation of settlement and court approval, as well as the merger becoming effective under applicable law. In January 2013, the parties completed confirmatory discovery and are in the process of finalizing the settlement which will then be submitted to the Court for approval. The defense or settlement of any lawsuit or claim may adversely affect the combined company’s business, financial condition or results of performance. Our plan to place a satellite in ground storage could subject the satellite to degradation, damage or obsolescence of certain capabilities, which could adversely affect the combined company’s ability to fully achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. We have two satellites under construction, WorldView-3 and GeoEye-2. We currently plan to optimize the size of our satellite constellation and place GeoEye-2 in storage until such time as incremental capacity or a 16 Table of Contents replacement for an existing satellite is required. GeoEye-2 includes advanced technologies and sensors, and extended periods of storage could result in degradation that may not be fully covered by applicable insurance or in obsolescence of certain capabilities of the satellite. In addition, the satellite may be subject to damage or destruction while in storage which may not be fully covered by applicable insurance. If the satellite requires upgrades or is damaged while in storage, we may need additional time to launch the satellite and may incur substantial expense. DigitalGlobe and GeoEye incurred substantial transaction fees and costs in connection with the merger. We incurred transaction costs in connection with the merger and debt issuance costs in connection with the refinancing of the indebtedness of both companies. Additional costs will be incurred in the course of the integration of the respective businesses of DigitalGlobe and GeoEye. We cannot be certain that the elimination of duplicative costs or the realization of other expected efficiencies related to the integration of the two businesses will offset the transaction and integration costs in the near term, or at all. Interruption or failure of our infrastructure could hurt our ability to effectively perform our daily operations and provide our products and services, which could damage our reputation and harm our operating results. The availability of our products and services depends on the continuing operation of our satellite operations infrastructure, information technology and communications systems. Any downtime, damage to or failure of our systems could result in interruptions in our service, which could reduce our net revenue and profits. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks or other attempts to harm our systems. We do not currently maintain a back-up data center from which we can continue to collect, process and deliver imagery in the event of the loss of our primary capabilities. In the event we are unable to collect, process and deliver imagery from our primary facility in Longmont, Colorado, our daily operations and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our ground terminal centers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, intentional bad acts, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, war, terrorist attacks, power losses, hardware failures, systems failures, telecommunications failures and similar events. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could result in lengthy interruptions in our services and/or damage our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If our satellites fail to operate as intended, our ability to collect imagery and market our products and services successfully could be materially and adversely affected. Our satellites employ advanced technologies and sensors that are exposed to severe environmental stresses in space that could affect our satellites’ performance. Hardware component problems in space could lead to deterioration in performance or loss of functionality of a satellite, with attendant costs and net revenue losses. In addition, human operators may execute improper implementation commands that may negatively impact a satellite’s performance. Exposure of our satellites to an unanticipated catastrophic event, such as a meteor shower or a collision with space debris, could reduce the performance of, or completely destroy, the affected satellite. We cannot assure you that our satellites will continue to operate successfully in space throughout their expected operational lives. Even if a satellite is operated properly, technical flaws in that satellite’s sensors or other technical deficiencies could significantly hinder its performance, which could materially affect our ability to collect imagery and market our products and services successfully. If we suffer a partial or total loss of a deployed satellite, we would need a significant amount of time and would incur substantial expense to replace that satellite. We may experience other problems with our satellites that may reduce their performance. During any period of time in which a satellite is not fully operational, we may lose most or all of the net revenue that otherwise would have been derived from that satellite. In addition, we may not have on hand, or be able to obtain in a timely manner, the necessary funds to cover the cost of any necessary satellite replacement. Our inability to repair or replace a defective satellite or correct any other technical problem in a timely manner could result in a significant loss of net revenue. 17 Table of Contents We are highly dependent upon our ImageLibrary and our failure or inability to protect and maintain the earth imagery content stored in our ImageLibrary could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 55.1% of our net revenue was generated from our ImageLibrary, excluding the EnhancedView SLA. Our operations depend upon our ability to maintain and protect our earth imagery content and our ImageLibrary against damage that may be caused by fire and other natural disasters, power failures, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, unauthorized intrusion, computer viruses, equipment malfunction or inadequacy, firewall breach or other events. The satellite imagery content we collect is downloaded directly to our facilities and then stored in our ImageLibrary for sale to customers. Our aerial imagery is collected and processed by our aerial suppliers and then delivered to us to be uploaded to our ImageLibrary. We back up our imagery and permanently store it with a third party data storage provider. Notwithstanding precautions we have taken to protect our ImageLibrary, there can be no assurance that a natural disaster or other event would not result in a prolonged interruption in our ability to provide access to or deliver imagery from our ImageLibrary to our clients. The temporary or permanent loss or disruption of access to our ImageLibrary could impair our ability to supply current and future customers with imagery content, have a negative impact on our net revenue and cause harm to our reputation. Any impairment in our ability to supply our customers with imagery content could affect our ability to retain or attract customers, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market may not accept our imagery products and services. You should not rely upon our historic growth rates as an indicator of future growth. Our success depends on existing markets accepting our imagery products and services and our ability to develop new markets. Our business plan is based on the assumption that we will generate significant future net revenue from sales of imagery products and services produced from our satellites and our other imagery content sources. The commercial sale of high-resolution earth imagery and related products and services is a relatively new industry. Consequently, it is difficult to predict the ultimate size of the markets and the acceptance by the markets of our products and services. Our business strategy and projections rely on a number of assumptions, some or all of which may be incorrect. Actual markets could vary materially from the potential markets that we have identified. We cannot accurately predict whether our products and services will achieve significant market acceptance or whether there will be a market for our products and services on terms we find acceptable. Market acceptance of our commercial high-resolution earth imagery and related products and services depends on a number of factors, including the quality, scope, timeliness, sophistication, price and the availability of substitute products and services. Lack of significant market acceptance of our offerings, or other products and services that utilize our products and services, delays in acceptance, failure of certain markets to develop or our need to make significant investments to achieve acceptance by the market would negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not continue to grow in line with historical rates or at all. If we are unable to achieve sustained growth, we may be unable to execute our business strategy, expand our business or fund other liquidity needs and our prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We face competition that may cause us to have to reduce our prices or to lose market share. Our products and services compete with satellite and aerial imagery and related products and services offered by a range of private and government providers. Our current or future competitors may have greater financial, personnel and other resources than we have. Our major existing competitors include Astrium Geo-Information Services, ImageSat International N.V., Skybox Imaging, Inc., Blackbridge (previously known as RapidEye), foreign governments including India, South Korea, Taiwan and others that sell their data commercially, as well as numerous aggregators of imagery and imagery-related products and services, including Google and Microsoft. In addition, we compete against aerial providers of high-resolution imagery, whose offerings provide certain benefits over satellite-based imagery, including better resolution and accuracy. The value of our imagery may also be diluted by earth imagery that is available free of charge. 18 Table of Contents The U.S. government and foreign governments also may develop, construct, launch and operate their own imagery satellites, which could reduce their need to rely on commercial suppliers. In addition, such governments could sell or provide free of charge earth imagery from their satellites in the commercial market and thereby compete with our imagery products and services. These governments could also subsidize the development, launch and operation of imagery satellites by our current or future competitors. In December 2011, Astrium Geo-Information Services successfully launched its high-resolution satellite, Pleiades-1a, which began commercial operations in the first half of 2012. Its twin satellite, Pleiades-1b was launched in December 2012 and is anticipated to achieve commercial operation in early 2013. In addition, India successfully launched the French SPOT 6 satellite in 2012. The SPOT 7 satellite is currently under construction and expected to be launched in 2014. Our competitors or potential competitors with greater resources than ours could, in the future, offer satellite-based imagery or other products and services with more attractive features than our products and services. The emergence of new remote imaging technologies or the continued growth of low-cost imaging satellites, such as those built and sold by Surrey Satellite Technology Limited, could negatively affect our marketing efforts. More importantly, if competitors develop and launch satellites or other imagery content sources with more advanced capabilities and technologies than ours, or offer services at lower prices than ours, our business and results of operations could be harmed. From time to time, we have experienced decreases in the average sales prices of some of our products and services. Due to competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or our competitors or other factors, the average selling price of our products and services may further decrease. If we are unable to offset decreases in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes or by adjusting our product mix, our net revenue and operating margins may decline and our financial position may be harmed. Changes in U.S. or foreign laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Our industry is highly regulated due to the sensitive nature of satellite technology. We cannot assure you that the laws and regulations governing our business and operations, including the distribution of satellite imagery, will not change in the future. Our business and operating results may be materially and adversely affected if we are required to alter our business operations to comply with such changes or if our ability to sell our products and services on a global basis is reduced or restricted due to increased U.S. or foreign government regulation. Failure to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals could result in service interruptions or could impede us from executing our business plan. NOAA Approvals. Our business requires licenses from NOAA. Under our NOAA licenses, the U.S. government reserves the right to interrupt service or limit our ability to distribute satellite images when foreign policy or U.S. national security interests are affected. In addition, NOAA has the right to review and approve the terms of certain of our agreements with international customers, including our DAP customers. We currently have the necessary approvals for our existing international customers. However, such reviews in the future could delay or prohibit us from executing new international agreements. The inability to get approvals for DAP customers could materially affect our ability to establish and grow our DAP business. In addition, should we not get approvals in a timely manner, our products and services may not be competitive. Export Approvals. The ground station equipment and related technology that is purchased by certain of our DAP customers is controlled under the ITAR. We, or our suppliers, must obtain export licenses from the DoS, and in some cases from foreign government agencies, in order to export ground station equipment and related technology to our DAP customers. Export licenses can take up to three months or longer to be processed and neither the DoS nor any corresponding foreign government agency are obligated to approve any license application. Our inability or the inability of our suppliers to get required export approvals for equipment and technology supporting DAP could materially affect our ability to establish and grow our DAP business. FCC Approvals. Our operation of satellites and ground terminals also requires licenses from the FCC. The FCC regulates the construction, launch and operation of our satellites, the use of satellite frequency spectrum and 19 Table of Contents the licensing of our ground terminals located within the United States. We are also subject to the FCC’s rules and regulations and the terms of our licenses, which require us to comply with various operating conditions and requirements. The current licenses of our satellites expire between 2023 and 2024 and those of our ground terminals expire between 2019 and 2024. While the FCC generally renews licenses routinely, there can be no assurance that our licenses will be renewed at their expiration dates on favorable terms or without adverse conditions. Failure to renew these licenses could have a material and adverse effect on our ability to generate net revenue and conduct our business as currently expected. International Registration and Approvals. The use of satellite frequency spectrum internationally is subject to the rules and requirements of the ITU. Additionally, satellite operators must abide by the specific laws of the countries in which downlink services are provided from the satellite to ground terminals within such countries. The FCC has coordinated the operations for each of our satellites pursuant to the ITU requirements. Coordination of our satellites with other satellite systems is required by the ITU to help prevent harmful frequency interference from or into existing or planned satellite operations. We do not expect significant issues relating to the coordination of our satellites due to the nature of satellite imaging operations. Our foreign DAP customers are responsible for securing necessary licenses and operational authority to use the required spectrum in each country into which we will downlink high resolution commercial earth imagery. If such customers are not successful in obtaining the necessary approvals, we will not be able to distribute real-time imagery to those customers. Our inability to offer real-time access service in a significant number of foreign countries could negatively affect our business. In addition, regulatory provisions in countries where we wish to operate may impose unduly burdensome restrictions on our operations. Our business may also be adversely affected if the national authorities where we plan to operate adopt treaties, regulations or legislation unfavorable to foreign companies. Global economic conditions may adversely impact our business, operating results or financial condition. Disruption and volatility in global financial markets may lead to increased rates of default and bankruptcy and may negatively impact consumer spending levels. These macroeconomic developments could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Current or potential customers, including foreign governments, may delay or decrease spending on our products and services as their business and/or budgets are impacted by economic conditions. The inability of current and potential customers to pay us for our products and services may adversely affect our earnings and cash flows. We are dependent on foreign resellers for our international net revenue. If these resellers fail to market or sell our products and services successfully, our business would be harmed. In 2012, we generated $48.9 million in net revenue, or 11.6% of our total net revenue, from our foreign resellers and partners. We rely on our foreign regional resellers and partners to market and sell the majority of our products and services in the international market. We have intensified our efforts to further develop our operations in overseas markets. Our foreign resellers and partners may not have the skill or experience to develop regional commercial markets for our imagery products and services, or may have competing interests that negatively affect their sales of our products and services. If we fail to enter into reseller agreements on a timely basis or if our foreign resellers and partners fail to market and sell our imagery products and services successfully, these failures could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our international business exposes us to risks relating to increased regulation and political or economic instability in foreign markets, which could adversely affect our net revenue. In 2012, approximately 29.8% of our net revenue was derived from international sales and we intend to continue to pursue international contracts. International operations are subject to certain risks, such as: • changes in domestic and foreign governmental regulations and licensing requirements; • deterioration of relations between the United States and a particular foreign country; 20 Table of Contents • increases in tariffs and taxes and other trade barriers; • changes in political and economic stability, including fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies, which may make payment in U.S. dollars, as provided for under some of our existing contracts, more expensive for foreign customers; • effects of austerity programs or similar significant budget reduction programs; and • difficulties in obtaining or enforcing judgments in foreign jurisdictions. These risks are beyond our control and could have a material and adverse effect on our business. We depend upon our ability to attract, train and retain employees. Our inability to do so, or the loss of key personnel, would seriously harm our business. Because of the specialized nature of our business, we rely heavily on our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific, technical, sales, marketing and managerial personnel. The loss of one or more of our senior management personnel could result in the loss of knowledge, experience and technical expertise within the satellite imagery sector, which would be detrimental to us if we cannot recruit suitable replacements in a timely manner. The competition for qualified personnel in the commercial high-resolution earth imagery industry is intense. Due to this intense competition, we may be unable to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business or to recruit suitable replacement personnel. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management or the inability to hire or retain experienced management personnel could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan and harm our operating results. Satellites have limited operational lives and are expensive to replace. Loss of, or damage to, a satellite may require us to seek additional financing from outside sources, which we may be unable to obtain on favorable terms, if at all. We determine a satellite’s useful life, or its expected operational life, using a complex calculation involving the probabilities of failure of the satellite’s components from design or manufacturing defects, environmental stresses, estimated remaining fuel or other causes. The expected ends of the operational lives of our in-orbit satellites at December 31, 2012 were as follows: Satellite Expected End ofOperational Life QuickBird Q2 2014 WorldView-1 Q2 2018 WorldView-2 Q1 2021 The expected operational lives of these satellites are affected by a number of factors, including the quality of construction, the supply of fuel, the expected gradual environmental degradation of solar panels, the durability of various satellite components and the orbits in which the satellites are placed. The failure of satellite components could cause damage to or loss of the use of a satellite before the end of its expected operational life. Electrostatic storms or collisions with other objects could also damage our satellites. We cannot assure you that each satellite will remain in operation until the end of its expected operational life. Furthermore, we expect the performance of each satellite to decline gradually near the end of its expected operational life. We can offer no assurance that our satellites will maintain their prescribed orbits or remain operational. The expected operational lives of satellites acquired from GeoEye has not yet been determined. We anticipate using funds generated from operations to fund the construction and launch of any future satellites, including WorldView-3. If we do not generate sufficient funds from operations, we may need to obtain additional financing from outside sources to deploy any future satellites. If we do not generate sufficient funds from operations and cannot obtain financing, we will not be able to deploy any future satellites or be able to replace any of our operating satellites at the end of their operational lives. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient funds from operations or raise additional capital on favorable terms or on a timely basis, if at all, to develop or deploy additional high-resolution satellites. 21 Table of Contents Limited insurance coverage and availability may prevent us from obtaining insurance to cover all risks of loss. As of December 31, 2012, we maintained the following insurance coverage on our satellite constellation: Satellite Policy Period Coverage(in millions) QuickBird 10/2012 — 10/2013 $ 11.0 WorldView-1 10/2012 — 10/2013 235.0 WorldView-2 10/2012 — 10/2013 225.0 We intend to insure certain satellites in our constellation to the extent that insurance remains available at acceptable premiums. It is anticipated that the insurance proceeds received in connection with a partial or total impairment of the functional capacity of any of our satellites may not be sufficient to cover the replacement cost, if we choose to do so, of an equivalent high-resolution satellite. In addition, this insurance will not protect us against all losses to our satellites due to specified exclusions, deductibles and material change limitations and it may be difficult to insure against certain risks, including a partial deterioration in satellite performance. Of the two satellites acquired in connection with our combination with GeoEye, GeoEye-1 had $250.0 million of insurance coverage and Ikonos was uninsured. The price and availability of insurance has fluctuated significantly since we began offering commercial services in 2001. Although we have historically been able to obtain insurance coverage for our in-orbit satellites, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so in the future. Although we intend to maintain insurance for all of our operating satellites, any determination we make as to whether to obtain insurance coverage will depend on a variety of factors, including the availability of insurance in the market, the cost of available insurance and the redundancy of our operating satellites. Insurance market conditions or factors outside our control at the time we are in the market for the required insurance, such as failure of a satellite using similar components, could cause premiums to be significantly higher than current estimates and could reduce amounts of available coverage. Higher premiums on insurance policies will increase our costs and consequently reduce our operating income by the amount of such increased premiums. If the terms of in-orbit insurance policies become less favorable than those currently available, there may be limits on the amount of coverage that we can obtain or we may not be able to obtain insurance at all. Even if obtained, our in-orbit operations insurance will not cover any loss in net revenue incurred as a result of a partial or total satellite loss. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, including our ability to incur additional indebtedness. In connection with our business combination with GeoEye, on January 31, 2013, we entered into a new seven-year $550.0 million senior secured term loan facility, a five-year $150.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility and issued $600.0 million of senior notes, the proceeds of which, along with cash on hand, were used to pay the cash consideration under the merger agreement, to refinance certain of our debt and GeoEye’s outstanding debt assumed in the business combination and pay fees and expenses related to the transactions. Our indebtedness could have several consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industry in which we operate, placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged and who, therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting. 22 Table of Contents Our senior secured credit facility and senior notes contain a number of restrictions and covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make investments, pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders, grant liens on our assets, sell assets, enter into a new or different line of business, enter into transactions with our affiliates, merge or consolidate with other entities or transfer all or substantially all of our assets and enter into sale and leaseback transactions. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants in the future is uncertain and will be affected by the levels of cash flow from our operations and events or circumstances beyond our control. Our failure to comply with any of the restrictions and covenants under our senior secured credit facilities and senior notes could cause all of our existing indebtedness to be immediately due and payable. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our indebtedness or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. If our indebtedness is in default for any reason, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. As of December 31, 2012, our total indebtedness was $495.0 million. Our balance as of December 31, 2012 was $483.6 million which was net of discounts of $11.4 million and represented 47.3% of our total capitalization. Our indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate sufficient cash to pay, when due, the principal, interest or other amounts due with respect to our indebtedness. On October 12, 2011, we established a $500.0 million, seven-year senior term loan facility and a $100.0 million, five-year senior secured revolving credit facility, the terms of which are set forth in a Credit and Guaranty Agreement dated as of October 12, 2011 among the Company, the guarantors party thereto, the lenders named therein and J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent and as collateral agent. This indebtedness was repaid and retired on January 31, 2013. We depend on a third party to provide us with aerial imagery. If we are unable to obtain aerial imagery at sufficient resolution, quality or on commercially reasonable terms, our ability to supplement our content library may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on a third party to provide us with aerial imagery to include in our ImageLibrary. The imagery must meet certain quality specifications, including resolution requirements, to allow it to be used by us in products and services we sell to our customers. Aerial imagery is collected and processed by our aerial supplier and then delivered to us to be uploaded into our ImageLibrary. If our aerial imagery supplier is unable to meet quality specifications or delivery time lines, the comprehensiveness and currency of our ImageLibrary could be diminished or become compromised. In addition, any inability to reach mutually acceptable commercial arrangements with our current aerial supplier or find new aerial providers to supply us with aerial imagery on commercially reasonable terms, could result in our inability to maintain or expand our customer base or to bring to market certain products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect that the price of our common stock will fluctuate substantially. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. Factors that could contribute to the volatility of our stock include, but are not limited to: • termination or expiration of one or more of our key contracts, or a change in scope or purchasing levels under one or more of our contracts, including the EnhancedView contract, our DAP contracts or other large contracts; • unfounded rumors and leaks of information, or formal announcements regarding federal budget cuts, including, but not limited to, reduction in budgets affecting the Department of Defense; • failure of our satellites to operate as designed; • loss or damage to any of our satellites; • changes in U.S. or foreign governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals, clearances or future applications; 23 Table of Contents • our announcements or our competitors’ announcements regarding new products or services, enhancements, significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic investments; • changes in the availability of insurance; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any, who cover our common stock; • changes in our published forecast of future results of operations; • fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; • success of competitive products and services; • changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities, sales of large blocks of common stock by our stockholders or the incurrence of additional debt; • investors’ general perception of us, including any perception of misuse of sensitive information; • changes in general global economic and market conditions; • changes in industry conditions; • changes in regulatory and other dynamics; and • our ability to successfully integrate the operations of GeoEye. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many companies in the technology sector, which have often been unrelated to their operating performance or prospects for future operations. These broad fluctuations may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. Future market movements may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: the existence of a classified board of directors; limitations on the removal of directors; advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations; the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; the ability of our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; and provisions that permit the redemption of stock from foreign stockholders where necessary, in the judgment of our board of directors, to protect our licenses and registrations. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock. In addition, our current credit facilities and indenture place restrictions on our ability to pay any dividends. We anticipate that we will retain all of our future earnings, if any, for use in the development and expansion of our business and for general corporate purposes. Any determination to pay dividends on our common stock in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 24 Table of Contents 