RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risk factors described below as well as the other information contained in this prospectus before buying shares of our common stock. If any of the following risks or uncertainties occurs, our business, financial conditions and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or a part of your investment in our common stock. Risks Relating to our Financial Condition We have had limited operating activities, which may make it difficult for you to evaluate the success of our business to date and to assess our future viability. Our activities to date have been limited to organizing and staffing our operations, acquiring, developing and securing our technology, licensing product candidates, and undertaking preclinical and clinical studies and clinical trials. We have not yet demonstrated an ability to obtain regulatory approval, manufacture products or conduct sales and marketing activities. Consequently, it is difficult to make any predictions about our future success, viability or profitability based on our historical operations. We have a history of losses, and as a result we may not be able to generate sufficient net revenue from product sales in the foreseeable future. We have incurred significant losses since our inception, and we expect that we will experience net losses and negative cash flow for the foreseeable future. Since our inception in 1993, we have incurred significant net losses in each year. Our losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in connection with our development activities and from general and administrative costs associated with our operations. Our net loss for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 was $65.5 and $7.2 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, our accumulated deficit was $142.2 and $67.7 million, respectively. We may never generate sufficient net revenue to achieve or sustain profitability. We expect to continue to incur increasing expenses over the next several years as we: • continue to conduct clinical trials for our product candidates; • seek regulatory approvals for our product candidates; • develop, formulate and commercialize our product candidates; • implement additional internal controls and reporting systems and develop new corporate infrastructure; • acquire or in-license additional products or technologies or expand the use of our technologies; • maintain, defend and expand the scope of our intellectual property; and • hire additional personnel. We expect that we will have large fixed expenses in the future, including significant expenses for research and development and general and administrative expenses. We will need to generate significant revenues to achieve and maintain profitability. If we cannot successfully develop and commercialize our product candidates, we will not be able to generate significant revenue from product sales or achieve profitability in the future. As a result, our ability to achieve and sustain profitability will depend on our ability to generate and sustain substantially higher revenue while maintaining reasonable cost and expense levels. We will need substantial additional funding, may be unable to raise additional capital when needed and may not be able to continue as a going concern. This could force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development and commercialization activities. 22 Table of Contents Developing drugs, conducting clinical trials and commercializing products is time-consuming and expensive. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the progress and cost of our clinical trials and other development activities; • the costs and timing of obtaining regulatory approval; • the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent applications, claims, patent and other intellectual property rights; • the cost and timing of securing manufacturing capabilities for our clinical product candidates and commercial products, if any; • the costs of establishing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; and • the terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing and other arrangements that we may establish. We believe that our existing cash resources will be sufficient to meet our projected operating requirements into the third quarter of 2007. We will need to raise additional capital or incur indebtedness to continue to fund our operations in the future. We cannot assure you that sufficient funds will be available to us when required or on satisfactory terms. If necessary funds are not available, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate some of our development programs, which could delay the time to market for any of our product candidates. We may raise additional capital through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on financial, economic and market conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot be certain that such additional funding will be available upon acceptable terms, or at all. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our then-existing stockholders may experience further dilution. Debt financing, if available, may subject us to restrictive covenants that could limit our flexibility in conducting future business activities. To the extent that we raise additional capital through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary for us to relinquish valuable rights to our product candidates that we might otherwise seek to develop or commercialize independently. Our common stock may be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market, which may make it more difficult for you to sell your shares. On January 29, 2007, we received a letter from the Nasdaq Listings Qualifications Panel (the “Panel”) stating that the Panel determined to transfer the shares of the Company from The Nasdaq Global Market to The Nasdaq Capital Market, effective at the open of business on Tuesday, January 30, 2007, and to allow the Company to remain listed on that market subject to certain conditions. The determination was the result of a hearing by the Panel on December 14, 2006, relating to the market value of our listed securities not being maintained over $50.0 million, a continued listing requirement of The Nasdaq Global Market. On January 10, 2007, we were notified by the Panel that the private placement of $10.0 million of securities previously announced by us on December 21, 2006 violated shareholder authorization rules, also a continued listing requirement of The Nasdaq Global Market. A Standby Equity Distribution Agreement, also dated as of December 21, 2006, which we refer to as SEDA, and the private placement of $10.0 million of securities were part of our plan to regain compliance with the market value deficiency requirement. The Panel determined to transfer our shares to The Nasdaq Capital Market, effective at the open of business on Tuesday, January 30, 2007, and to allow us to remain listed on that market, subject to the following conditions: (1) on or before April 11, 2007, the Company shall publicly announce and inform the Panel that the Private Placement and SEDA have been approved by our stockholders, and (2) on or before April 25, 2007, the Nasdaq staff shall have approved the Company’s application for new listing, the Company will have paid all applicable listing fees and evidenced compliance with all requirements for continued listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market. The Company intends to satisfy the Panel’s conditions and remain listed on The Nasdaq Capital Market until such time as it may qualify for readmission to The Nasdaq Global Market. If we are unable to satisfy these conditions in a timely manner, our common stock may be delisted from the The Nasdaq Capital Market and has scheduled a special meeting of stockholders for April 6, 2007 which would adversely impact the trading market for our common stock and make it more difficult for you to sell your shares of our common stock. 23 Table of Contents Our quarterly financial results are likely to fluctuate significantly, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Our quarterly operating results will be difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period, particularly because we are a relatively small company with no approved products. The level of our revenues, if any, expenses and our results of operations at any given time could fluctuate as a result of any of the following factors: • research and development expenses incurred and other operating expenses; • results of our clinical trials; • our ability to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates; • our ability to achieve milestones under our strategic relationships on a timely basis or at all; • timing of new product offerings, acquisitions, licenses or other significant events by us or our competitors; • regulatory approvals and legislative changes affecting the products we may offer or those of our competitors; • our ability to establish and maintain a productive sales force; • demand and pricing of any products we may offer; • physician and patient acceptance of our products; • levels of third-party reimbursement for our products; • interruption in the manufacturing or distribution of our products; • the effect of competing technological and market developments; • litigation involving patents, licenses or other intellectual property rights; and • product failures or product liability lawsuits. Until we obtain regulatory approval for any of our product candidates, we cannot begin to market or sell them. As a result, it will be difficult for us to forecast demand for our products with any degree of certainty. It is also difficult to predict the timing of the achievement of various milestones under our strategic relationships. In addition, our operating expenses may continue to increase as we develop product candidates and build commercial capabilities. Accordingly, we may experience significant quarterly losses. Because of these factors, our operating results in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline significantly. We have experienced material weaknesses related to our internal controls and procedures, which, if repeated, could adversely impact our ability to report our consolidated financial results accurately and on a timely basis. As a result of our inability to complete our financial statements for the quarter ended March 31, 2006 and to file our corresponding Form 10-Q on a timely basis; and the journal entry adjustments primarily related to the accounting for the Maxim merger, management determined that material weaknesses existed in our internal control over financial reporting at March 31, 2006. Our independent registered public accounting firm identified certain matters for the first quarter ended March 31, 2006 involving our internal control over financial reporting that it considered to be material weaknesses under standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, including errors on the statement of cash flows, errors in recording the purchase price allocation relating to the Maxim merger, and other errors either of omission of required footnote information or requiring correcting journal entries. Our independent registered public accounting firm informed management and the audit committee of its findings. In light of the additional complexity of the financial statements resulting from the merger with Maxim and the findings of our independent registered public accounting firm for the first quarter ended March 31, 2006, management implemented certain improvements in its financial reporting close process. We retained the services of outside external accountants to provide additional 24 Table of Contents training, process support and internal review of the financial statements. In addition, we developed and utilized detailed checklists for the financial reporting process to ensure completeness in the preparation of SEC reports. We improved documentation of our conclusions relating to technical accounting issues and determinations. In addition, during the quarter ended September 30, 2006, we initiated a plan for our San Diego subsidiary (Maxim) to adopt the same accounting software being utilized in New York, in order to facilitate the accuracy and timeliness of that subsidiary’s financial disclosure process. We cannot assure you that new material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be discovered in the future. Any failure to remediate any reported material weaknesses in the future or implement required new or improved internal controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements. Inadequate internal controls in the future could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported consolidated financial statements, which could result in a decline in value for our stock. We are also required to comply with Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for the first time at December 31, 2006, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and an attestation to, and testing and assessment of, our internal control over financial reporting by our independent registered public accounting firm. We performed certain testing of our internal control over financial reporting in preparation for our first annual assessment of the effectiveness of such internal control over financial reporting as required by Section 404(a). There have not been any changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting during the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2006 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. We may not be able to maintain the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in the future. Our recurring losses and stockholders’ deficit have raised substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. EpiCept’s recurring losses from operations and EpiCept’s stockholders’ deficit raise substantial doubt about EpiCept’s ability to continue as a going concern and as a result EpiCept’s independent registered public accounting firm included an explanatory paragraph in its report on EpiCept’s consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2006 with respect to this uncertainty. EpiCept will need to raise additional debt or equity capital to fund our product development efforts and to meet our obligations, including servicing our existing indebtedness and performing our contractual obligations under our license agreements and strategic alliances. In addition, the perception that we may not be able to continue as a going concern may cause others to choose not to deal with us due to concerns about our ability to meet our contractual obligations. Clinical and Regulatory Risks If we are unable to successfully design, conduct and complete clinical trials, we will not be able to obtain regulatory approval for product candidates, which could delay or prevent us from being able to generate revenue from product sales. We currently have no products approved for sale, and we cannot guarantee you that we will ever have marketable products. Before our product candidates can be commercialized, we or our partners must submit an NDA to the FDA. The NDA must demonstrate that the product candidate is safe and effective in humans for its intended use. To support our NDAs, we or our partners must conduct extensive human tests, which are referred to as clinical trials. Satisfaction of all regulatory requirements typically takes many years and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. We currently have several product candidates in various stages of clinical testing. All of our product candidates are prone to the risks of failure inherent in drug development and testing. Product candidates in later-stage clinical trials may fail to show desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed through initial clinical testing. In addition, the data collected from clinical trials of our product candidates may not be sufficient to support FDA approval, or FDA officials could interpret the data differently than we do. The FDA may require us or our partners to conduct additional clinical testing, in which case we would have to expend additional time and resources. The approval process may also be delayed by changes in government regulation, future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy that occur prior to or during regulatory review. Any failure or significant delay in completing clinical trials for our product candidates, or in receiving regulatory approval for the sale of our product candidates, may severely harm our business and delay or prevent us from being able to generate revenue from product sales, and our stock price will likely decline. 25 Table of Contents We may not obtain regulatory clearance to market our product candidates on a timely basis, or at all. Our product candidates will be subject to extensive government regulations related to development, clinical trials, manufacturing and commercialization. The process of obtaining FDA, European Medicines Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products, or EMEA, and other governmental and similar international regulatory approvals is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. The FDA, EMEA and similar international regulatory authorities may not ultimately approve the candidate for commercial sale in any jurisdiction. The FDA, EMEA or similar international regulators may refuse to approve an application for approval of a drug candidate if they believe that applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied. The FDA, EMEA or similar international regulators may also require additional testing for safety and efficacy. Any failure or delay in obtaining these approvals could prohibit or delay us from marketing product candidates. If our product candidates do not meet applicable regulatory requirements for approval, we may not have the financial resources to continue research and development of these product candidates, and we may not generate revenues from the commercial sale of any of our products. Clinical trial designs that were discussed with regulatory authorities prior to their commencement may subsequently be considered insufficient for approval at the time of application for regulatory approval. We or our partners discuss with and obtain guidance from regulatory authorities on clinical trial protocols. Over the course of conducting clinical trials, circumstances may change, such as standards of safety, efficacy or medical practice, which could affect regulatory authorities’ perception of the adequacy of any of our clinical trial designs or the data we develop from our studies. Changes in circumstances could affect our ability to conduct clinical trials as planned. Even with successful clinical safety and efficacy data, we may be required to conduct additional, expensive trials to obtain regulatory approval. For example, in May 2004, we announced the results of an international Phase III clinical trial testing the combination of Ceplene plus IL-2 in patients with acute myeloid leukemia, or AML, in complete remission. The primary endpoint of the Phase III trials was achieved using intent-to-treat analysis, as patients treated with the Ceplene plus IL-2 combination therapy experienced a statistically significant increase in leukemia-free survival compared to patients in the control arm of the trial. In January 2005, we announced that based on ongoing correspondence with the FDA, as well as consultations with external advisors, it determined that an additional Phase III clinical trial would be necessary to further evaluate Ceplene plus IL-2 combination therapy for the treatment of AML patients in complete remission before applying for regulatory approval in the United States. In October 2006, we submitted a Market Authorization Application to EMEA for Ceplene, our lead oncology product candidate, administered in conjunction with interleukin-2 (IL-2), for the maintenance of first remission in patients with AML. However, we have no assurance that (i) the EMEA or similar regulatory agencies will not require an additional Phase III trial, (ii) the EMEA or similar regulatory agencies would approve regulatory filings for drug approval, or (iii) if an additional Phase III trial is required, that the results from such additional Phase III trial would confirm the results from the first Phase III trial. If we receive regulatory approval, our marketed products will also be subject to ongoing FDA and/or foreign regulatory agency obligations and continued regulatory review, and if we fail to comply with these regulations, we could lose approvals to market any products, and our business would be seriously harmed. Following initial regulatory approval of any of our product candidates, we will be subject to continuing regulatory review, including review of adverse experiences and clinical results that are reported after our products become commercially available. This would include results from any post-marketing tests or vigilance required as a condition of approval. The manufacturer and manufacturing facilities we use to make any of our product candidates will also be subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies. If a previously unknown problem or problems with a product, manufacturing or laboratory facility used by us is discovered, the FDA or foreign regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product or on the manufacturing facility, including requiring us to withdraw the product from the market. Any changes to an approved product, including the way it is manufactured or promoted, often require FDA approval before the product, as modified, can be marketed. We and our manufacturers will be subject to ongoing FDA requirements for submission of safety and other post-market information. If we and our manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: • issue warning letters; • impose civil or criminal penalties; • suspend or withdraw regulatory approval; 26 Table of Contents • suspend any ongoing clinical trials; • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications; • impose restrictions on operations; • close the facilities of manufacturers; or • seize or detain products or require a product recall. In addition, the policies of the FDA or other applicable regulatory agencies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature, or extent of adverse government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. Even if the FDA approves our product candidates, the approval will be limited to those indications and conditions for which we are able to show clinical safety and efficacy. Any regulatory approval that we may receive for our current or future product candidates will be limited to those diseases and indications for which such product candidates are clinically demonstrated to be safe and effective. In addition to the FDA approval required for new formulations, any new indication to an approved product also requires FDA approval. If we are not able to obtain FDA approval for a broad range of indications for our product candidates, our ability to effectively market and sell our product candidates may be greatly reduced and may harm our ability to generate revenue. While physicians may choose to prescribe drugs for uses that are not described in the product’s labeling and for uses that differ from those tested in clinical studies and approved by regulatory authorities, our regulatory approvals will be limited to those indications that are specifically submitted to the FDA for review. These “off-label” uses are common across medical specialties and may constitute the best treatment for many patients in varied circumstances. Regulatory authorities in the United States generally do not regulate the behavior of physicians in their choice of treatments. Regulatory authorities do, however, restrict communications by pharmaceutical companies on the subject of off-label use. If our promotional activities fail to comply with these regulations or guidelines, we may be subject to warnings from, or enforcement action by, these authorities. In addition, our failure to follow FDA rules and guidelines relating to promotion and advertising may cause the FDA to delay its approval or refuse to approve a product, the suspension or withdrawal of an approved product from the market, recalls, fines, disgorgement of money, operating restrictions, injunctions or criminal prosecutions, any of which could harm our business. The results of our clinical trials are uncertain, which could substantially delay or prevent us from bringing our product candidates to market. Before we can obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate, we must undertake extensive clinical testing in humans to demonstrate safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA or other regulatory agencies. Clinical trials are very expensive and difficult to design and implement. The clinical trial process is also time consuming. The commencement and completion of our clinical trials could be delayed or prevented by several factors, including: • delays in obtaining regulatory approvals to commence or continue a study; • delays in reaching agreement on acceptable clinical trial parameters; • slower than expected rates of patient recruitment and enrollment; • inability to demonstrate effectiveness or statistically significant results in our clinical trials; • unforeseen safety issues; • uncertain dosing issues; • inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment; and • inability or unwillingness of medical investigators to follow our clinical protocols. 27 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that our planned clinical trials will begin or be completed on time or at all, or that they will not need to be restructured prior to completion. Significant delays in clinical testing will impede our ability to commercialize our product candidates and generate revenue from product sales and could materially increase our development costs. Completion of clinical trials may take several years or more, but the length of time generally varies according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of a drug candidate. The cost of clinical trials may vary significantly over the life of a project as a result of differences arising during clinical development, including: • the number of sites included in the trials; • the length of time required to enroll suitable patient subjects; • the number of patients that participate in the trials; • the number of doses that patients receive; • the duration of follow-up with the patient; • the product candidate’s phase of development; and • the efficacy and safety profile of the product. The use of FDA-approved therapeutics in certain of our product candidates could require us to conduct additional preclinical studies and clinical trials, which could increase development costs and lengthen the regulatory approval process. Certain of our product candidates utilize proprietary formulations and topical delivery technologies to administer FDA-approved pain management therapeutics. We may still be required to conduct preclinical studies and clinical trials to determine if our product candidates are safe and effective. In addition, we may also be required to conduct additional preclinical studies and Phase I clinical trials to establish the safety of the topical delivery of these therapeutics and the level of absorption of the therapeutics into the bloodstream. The FDA may also require us to conduct clinical studies to establish that our delivery mechanisms are safer or more effective than the existing methods for delivering these therapeutics. As a result, we may be required to conduct complex clinical trials, which could be expensive and time-consuming and lengthen the anticipated regulatory approval process. In some instances, we rely on third parties, over which we have little or no control, to conduct clinical trials for our products and their failure to perform their obligations in a timely or competent manner may delay development and commercialization of our product candidates. The nature of clinical trials and our business strategy requires us to rely on clinical research centers and other contractors to assist us with clinical testing and certain research and development activities, such as our agreement with Myriad Genetics, Inc. related to the MX90745 series of apoptosis-inducer anti-cancer compounds. As a result, our success is dependent upon the success of these outside parties in performing their responsibilities. We cannot directly control the adequacy and timeliness of the resources and expertise applied to these activities by such contractors. If such contractors do not perform their activities in an adequate or timely manner, the development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed. In addition, we rely on Myriad for research and development related to the MX90745 series of apoptosis-inducer anti-cancer compounds. We may enter into similar agreements from time to time with additional third parties for our other product candidates whereby these third parties undertake significant responsibility for research, clinical trials or other aspects of obtaining FDA approval. As a result, we may face delays if Myriad or these additional third parties do not conduct clinical studies and trials, or prepare or file regulatory related documents, in a timely or competent fashion. The conduct of the clinical studies by, and the regulatory strategies of, Myriad or these additional third parties, over which we have limited or no control, may delay or prevent regulatory approval of our product candidates, which would delay or limit our ability to generate revenue from product sales. 28 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Commercialization If we fail to enter into and maintain successful strategic alliances for our product candidates, we may have to reduce or delay our product commercialization or increase our expenditures. Our strategy for developing, manufacturing and commercializing potential product candidates in multiple therapeutic areas currently requires us to enter into and successfully maintain strategic alliances with pharmaceutical companies that have product development resources and expertise, established distribution systems and direct sales forces to advance our development programs and reduce our expenditures on each development program and market any products that we may develop. EpiCept has formed a strategic alliance with Endo with respect to EpiCept’s LidoPAIN BP product candidate, Myriad with respect to the MX90745 series of apoptosis-inducer anti-cancer compounds and with DURECT for our intellectual property for a transdermal patch containing bupivacaine for the treatment of back pain. We may not be able to negotiate additional strategic alliances on acceptable terms, or at all. We may rely on collaborative partners to market and sell Ceplene in international markets, if approved for sale in such markets. We have not yet entered into any collaborative arrangements with respect to marketing or selling Ceplene with the exception of agreements relating to Australia, New Zealand and Israel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into any such arrangements on terms favorable to us, or at all. If we are unable to maintain our existing strategic alliances or establish and maintain additional strategic alliances, we may have to limit the size or scope of, or delay, one or more of our product development or commercialization programs, or undertake the various activities at our own expense. In addition, our dependence on strategic alliances is subject to a number of risks, including: • the inability to control the amount or timing of resources that our collaborators may devote to developing the product candidates; • the possibility that we may be required to relinquish important rights, including intellectual property, marketing and distribution rights; • the receipt of lower revenues than if we were to commercialize such products ourselves; • our failure to receive future milestone payments or royalties should a collaborator fail to commercialize one of our product candidates successfully; • the possibility that a collaborator could separately move forward with a competing product candidate developed either independently or in collaboration with others, including our competitors; • the possibility that our collaborators may experience financial difficulties; • business combinations or significant changes in a collaborator’s business strategy that may adversely affect that collaborator’s willingness or ability to complete its obligations under any arrangement; and • the chance that our collaborators may operate in countries where their operations could be negatively impacted by changes in the local regulatory environment or by political unrest. If the market does not accept and use our product candidates, we will not achieve sufficient product revenues and our business will suffer. If we receive regulatory approval to market our product candidates, physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community may not accept and use them. The degree of market acceptance and use of any approved products will depend on a number of factors, including: • perceptions by members of the healthcare community, including physicians, about the safety and effectiveness of our products; • cost effectiveness of our products relative to competing products; 29 Table of Contents • relative convenience and ease of administration; • availability of reimbursement for our products from government or healthcare payors; and • effectiveness of marketing and distribution efforts by us and our licensees and distributors. Because we expect to rely on sales and royalties generated by our current lead product candidates for a substantial portion of our product revenues for the foreseeable future, the failure of any of these drugs to find market acceptance would harm our business and could require us to seek additional funding to continue our other development programs. Our product candidates could be rendered obsolete by technological change and medical advances, which would adversely affect the performance of our business. Our product candidates may be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by the development of medical advances to treat the conditions that our product candidates are designed to address. Pain management therapeutics are the subject of active research and development by many potential competitors, including major pharmaceutical companies, specialized biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions. Research and development by others may render our technology or product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive or result in treatments or cures superior to any therapy we developed. Technological advances affecting costs of production could also harm our ability to cost-effectively produce and sell products. We have no manufacturing capacity and anticipate continued reliance on third parties for the manufacture of our product candidates. We do not currently operate manufacturing facilities for our product candidates. We lack the resources and the capabilities to manufacture any of our product candidates. We currently rely on a single contract manufacturer for each product candidate to supply, store and distribute drug supplies for our clinical trials. Any performance failure or delay on the part of our existing manufacturers could delay clinical development or regulatory approval of our product candidates and commercialization of our drugs, producing additional losses and depriving us of potential product revenues. If the FDA or other regulatory agencies approve any of our product candidates for commercial sale, the product will need to be manufactured in larger quantities. To date most of our product candidates have been manufactured in only small quantities for preclinical and clinical trials. In those case, our third party manufacturers may not be able to successfully increase their manufacturing capacity in a timely or economical manner, or at all. We may be forced to identify alternative or additional third party manufacturers, which may prove difficult because the number of potential manufacturers is limited and the FDA must approve any replacement contractor prior to manufacturing our products. Such approval would require new testing and compliance inspections. In addition, a new manufacturer would have to be educated in, or develop substantially equivalent processes for, production of our product candidates. It may be difficult or impossible for us to find a replacement manufacturer on acceptable terms quickly, or at all. If we are unable to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for a drug candidate in a timely and economical manner, the regulatory approval or commercial launch of any related products may be delayed or there may be a shortage in supply, both of which may have an adverse effect on our business. Our product candidates require precise, high quality manufacturing. A failure to achieve and maintain high manufacturing standards, including the incidence of manufacturing errors, could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously hurt our business. Manufacturers often encounter difficulties involving production yields, quality control and quality assurance, as well as shortages of qualified personnel. These manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency and corresponding state agencies to ensure strict compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice and other applicable government regulations and corresponding foreign standards; however, we do not have control over third party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. If one of our manufacturers fails to maintain compliance, the production of our product candidates could be interrupted, resulting in delays, additional costs and potentially lost revenues. Additionally, third-party manufacturers must pass a pre-approval inspection before we can obtain marketing approval for any of our products in development. Furthermore, our existing and future contract manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to successfully produce, store and distribute our product candidates. We may not own, 30 Table of Contents or may have to share, the intellectual property rights to such innovation. In the event of a natural disaster, equipment failure, power failure, strike or other difficulty, we may be unable to replace our third party manufacturers in a timely manner. We may be the subject of costly product liability claims or product recalls, and we may be unable to obtain or maintain insurance adequate to cover potential liabilities. The risk of product liability is inherent in the development, manufacturing and marketing of human therapeutic products. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: • delays in, or failure to complete, our clinical trials; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • decreased demand for our product candidates; • injury to our reputation; • litigation costs; • substantial monetary awards against us; and • diversion of management or other resources from key aspects of our operations. If we succeed in marketing our products, product liability claims could result in an FDA investigation of the safety or efficacy of our products or our marketing programs. An FDA investigation could also potentially lead to a recall of our products or more serious enforcement actions, or limitations on the indications for which our products may be used, or suspension or withdrawal of approval. We cannot be certain that the coverage limits of the insurance policies or those of our strategic partners will be adequate. We further intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if marketing approval is obtained for our product candidates. We may not be able to obtain additional insurance or maintain our existing insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or at all. If we are unable to obtain sufficient insurance at an acceptable cost or if a claim is brought against us, whether fully covered by insurance or not, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The coverage and reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare drugs is uncertain and failure to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement could limit our ability to market our products. Our ability to commercialize any products successfully will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement will be available from governmental and other third-party payors, both in the United States and in foreign markets. The amount reimbursed for our products may be insufficient to allow them to compete effectively with products that are reimbursed at a higher level. If the price we are able to charge for any products we develop is inadequate in light of our development costs, our profitability would be reduced. Reimbursement by a governmental and other third-party payor may depend upon a number of factors, including the governmental and other third-party payor’s determination that the use of a product is: • a covered benefit under its health plan; • safe, effective and medically necessary; • appropriate for the specific patient; • cost-effective; and • neither experimental nor investigational. 31 Table of Contents Obtaining reimbursement approval for a product from each third-party and governmental payor is a time consuming and costly process that could require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost effectiveness data for the use of our products to each payor. We may not be able to provide data sufficient to obtain reimbursement. Eligibility for coverage does not imply that any drug product will be reimbursed in all cases or at a rate that allows us to make a profit. Interim payments for new products, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover our costs and may not become permanent. Reimbursement rates may vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on payments allowed for lower-cost drugs that are already reimbursed, may be incorporated into existing payments for other products or services and may reflect budgetary constraints and/or Medicare or Medicaid data used to calculate these rates. Net prices for products also may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs or by any future relaxation of laws that restrict imports of certain medical products from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the United States. The health care industry is experiencing a trend toward containing or reducing costs through various means, including lowering reimbursement rates, limiting therapeutic class coverage and negotiating reduced payment schedules with service providers for drug products. There have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, federal and state proposals to constrain expenditures for medical products and services, which may affect reimbursement levels for our future products. In addition, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services frequently change product descriptors, coverage policies, product and service codes, payment methodologies and reimbursement values. Third-party payors often follow Medicare coverage policies and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates and may have sufficient market power to demand significant price reductions. Foreign governments tend to impose strict price controls, which may adversely affect our future profitability. In some foreign countries, particularly in the European Union, prescription drug pricing is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our product candidates to other available therapies. If reimbursement of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our profitability would be reduced. Risks Relating to the Our Business and Industry Our failure to attract and retain skilled personnel could impair our product development and commercialization efforts. Our success is substantially dependent on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management, scientific and technical personnel and our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with leading institutions, clinicians and scientists. We are highly dependent upon our key management personnel, particularly John V. Talley, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Robert W. Cook, our Chief Financial Officer, and Dr. Ben Tseng, our Chief Scientific Officer. We are also dependent on certain scientific and technical personnel. The loss of the services of any member of senior management, or scientific or technical staff may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of product development, commercialization and other business objectives. Messrs. Talley and Cook have entered into employment agreements with EpiCept. However, either of them may decide to voluntarily terminate his employment with us. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on any of our employees. We believe that we will need to recruit additional management and technical personnel. There is currently a shortage of, and intense competition for, skilled executives and employees with relevant scientific and technical expertise, and this shortage may continue. The inability to attract and retain sufficient scientific, technical and managerial personnel could limit or delay our product development efforts, which would reduce our ability to successfully commercialize product candidates and our business. We expect to expand our operations, and as a result, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth, which could disrupt our operations. We expect to have significant growth in the scope of our operations as our product candidates are commercialized. To manage our anticipated future growth, we must implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems, expand facilities and recruit and train additional qualified personnel. Due to our limited resources, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. The physical expansion of our operations may lead to significant 32 Table of Contents costs and may divert management and business development resources. Any inability to manage growth could delay the execution of our business strategy or disrupt our operations. Our competitors may develop and market drugs that are less expensive, safer, or more effective, which may diminish or eliminate the commercial success of any of our product candidates. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive and characterized by rapid technological change. Because we anticipate that our research approach will integrate many technologies, it may be difficult for us to stay abreast of the rapid changes in technology. If we fail to stay at the forefront of technological change, we will be unable to compete effectively. Our competitors may render our technologies obsolete by advances in existing technological approaches or the development of different approaches by one or more of our current or future competitors. We will compete with Pfizer and Endo in the treatment of neuropathic pain; Purdue Pharmaceuticals, Johnson & Johnson and Endo in the treatment of post-operative pain; and Johnson & Johnson and others in the treatment of back pain. There are also many companies, both publicly and privately held, including well-known pharmaceutical companies and academic and other research institutions, engaged in developing pharmaceutical products for the treatment of life-threatening cancers and liver diseases. Our competitors may: • develop and market product candidates that are less expensive and more effective than our future product candidates; • adapt more quickly to new technologies and scientific advances; • commercialize competing product candidates before we or our partners can launch any product candidates developed from our product candidates; • initiate or withstand substantial price competition more successfully than we can; • have greater success in recruiting skilled scientific workers from the limited pool of available talent; • more effectively negotiate third-party licenses and strategic alliances; and • take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities more readily than we can. We will compete for market share against fully-integrated pharmaceutical companies and smaller companies that are collaborating with larger pharmaceutical companies, new companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. Many of these competitors, either alone or together with their partners, may develop new product candidates that will compete with our product candidates, as these competitors may operate larger research and development programs or have substantially greater financial resources than us. Our competitors may also have significantly greater experience in: • developing drugs; • undertaking preclinical testing and human clinical trials; • building relationships with key customers and opinion-leading physicians; • obtaining and maintaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of drugs; • formulating and manufacturing drugs; and • launching, marketing and selling drugs. These and other competitive factors may negatively impact our financial performance. EpiCept GmbH, our German subsidiary, is subject to various risks associated with its international operations. Our subsidiary, EpiCept GmbH, operates in Germany, and we face a number of risks associated with its operations, including: • difficulties and costs associated in complying with German laws and regulations; 33 Table of Contents • changes in the German regulatory environment; • increased costs associated with operating in Germany; • increased costs and complexities associated with financial reporting; and • difficulties in maintaining international operations. Expenses incurred by our German operations are typically denominated in euros. In addition, EpiCept GmbH has incurred indebtedness that is denominated in euros and requires that interest be paid in euros. As a result, our costs of maintaining and operating our German subsidiary, and the interest payments and costs of repaying its indebtedness, increase if the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro declines. Risks Relating to Intellectual Property If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our competitors could develop and market products with features similar to our products and demand for our products may decline. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection of our technologies and product candidates as well as successfully defending these patents and trade secrets against third party challenges. We will only be able to protect our intellectual property from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable patents or trade secrets cover them. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. In addition, changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States or other countries may diminish the value of the combined organization’s intellectual property. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in third party patents. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example: • we might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of its pending patent applications and issued patents, and we could lose our patent rights as a result; • we might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions or our patent applications may not have been timely filed, and we could lose our patent rights as a result; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • it is possible that none of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents; • our issued patents may not provide a basis for commercially viable drugs or therapies, may not provide us with any protection from unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and may not provide us with any competitive advantages; • our patent applications or patents may be subject to interference, opposition or similar administrative proceedings; • the organization may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or • the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business. Moreover, the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability and it is uncertain how much protection, if any, will be afforded by our patents if we attempt to enforce them and they are challenged in court or in other proceedings, such as oppositions, which may be brought in U.S. or foreign jurisdictions to challenge the validity of a patent. A third party may challenge the validity or enforceability of a patent after its issuance by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO. It is possible that a 34 Table of Contents third party could attempt to challenge the validity or enforceability of EpiCept’s two issued patents related to LidoPAIN SP based upon a short videotape prepared by the inventor more than one year prior to the filing of the initial patent application related to LidoPAIN SP. It is possible that a third party could attempt to challenge the validity and enforceability of these patents based on the videotape and/or its nondisclosure to the USPTO. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, interferences, oppositions and related legal and administrative proceedings in the United States are costly, time consuming to pursue and result in diversion of resources. The outcome of these proceedings is uncertain and could significantly harm our business. We will also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We will use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific partners and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose its confidential information to competitors. Enforcing a claim that a third party improperly obtained and is using our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. If we are not able to defend the patent protection position of our technologies and product candidates, then we will not be able to exclude competitors from marketing product candidates that directly compete with our product candidates, and we may not generate enough revenue from our product candidates to justify the cost of their development and to achieve or maintain profitability. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, such litigation will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome could increase our costs or have a negative impact on our business. Our ability to commercialize our products depends on our ability to sell our products without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending applications, which are owned by third parties, exist with respect to the therapeutics utilized in our product candidates and topical delivery mechanisms. Because we are utilizing existing therapeutics, we will continue to need to ensure that we can utilize these therapeutics without infringing existing patent rights. Accordingly, we have reviewed related patents known to us and, in some instances, licensed related patented technologies. In addition, because patent applications can take several years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that the combined organization’s product candidates may infringe. There could also be existing patents of which we are not aware that our product candidates may inadvertently infringe. We cannot assure you that any of our product candidates infringe the intellectual property of others. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claims that we infringe on their technology, we could face a number of issues that could increase its costs or have a negative impact on its business, including: • infringement and other intellectual property claims which, with or without merit, can be costly and time consuming to litigate and can delay the regulatory approval process and divert management’s attention from our core business strategy; • substantial damages for past infringement, which we may have to pay if a court determines that our products infringes a competitor’s patent; • an injunction prohibiting us from selling or licensing our product unless the patent holder licenses the patent to us, which the holder is not required to do; and • if a license is available from a patent holder, we may have to pay substantial royalties or grant cross licenses to our patents. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Many of our employees were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including competitors or potential competitors. We may be subject to claims that we or these employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary claims, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize certain 35 Table of Contents product candidates, which could severely harm our business. Litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Risks Relating to our Common Stock We expect that our stock price will fluctuate significantly due to external factors. Since January 30, 2007, our common stock trades on The Nasdaq Capital Market and on the OM Stockholm Exchange. From January 5, 2006 through January 29, 2007, our common stock traded on The Nasdaq National Market. Prior to January 4, 2006, our common stock did not trade on an exchange. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the prevailing market prices of the common stock and our ability to raise equity capital in the future. The volatility of biopharmaceutical stocks often does not relate to the operating performance of the companies represented by the stock. Factors that could cause this volatility in the market price of our common stock include: • results from and any delays in our clinical trial programs; • announcements concerning our collaborations with Endo Pharmaceuticals Inc., Myriad Genetics, Inc. and DURECT Corporation or future strategic alliances; • delays in the development and commercialization of our product candidates due to inadequate allocation of resources by our strategic collaborators or otherwise; • market conditions in the broader stock market in general, or in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors in particular; • issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations; • actual and anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial and operating results; • developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or proprietary rights; • introduction of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; • additions or departures of key personnel; • FDA or international regulatory actions affecting us or our industry; • our ability to maintain our listing on the The Nasdaq Capital Market; • issues in manufacturing our product candidates; • market acceptance of our product candidates; • third party healthcare reimbursement policies; and • litigation or public concern about the safety of our product candidates. These and other factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise reduce the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. If the ownership of our common stock continues to be highly concentrated, it may prevent stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and may result in conflicts of interest that could cause our stock price to decline. Our executive officers, directors and their affiliates beneficially own or control approximately 18.53% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of March 15, 2007. Accordingly, these executive officers, directors and their affiliates, acting as a group, will have substantial influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, 36 Table of Contents any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transactions. These stockholders may also delay or prevent a change of control of us, even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders. The significant concentration of stock ownership may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline due to investor perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about us, if they change their recommendations regarding our stock adversely or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline. Future sales of common stock by our existing stockholders may cause our stock price to fall. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by our existing stockholders in the market or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Provisions of our charter documents or Delaware law could delay or prevent an acquisition of us, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and could make it more difficult for you to change management. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. This is because these provisions may prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors; • a prohibition on stockholder action through written consent; • a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called only by the board of directors or a committee duly designated by the board of directors whose powers and authorities include the power to call such special meetings; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; and • the authority of the board of directors to issue preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person that together with its affiliates owns or within the last three years has owned 15% of voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, Section 203 may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us. As a result of these provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law, the price investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock may be limited. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid cash dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date, and we intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. In addition, the terms of existing or any future debt may preclude us from paying these dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. 37 Table of Contents The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and distract management. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the listing requirements of The Nasdaq Capital Market and the OM Stockholm Exchange. The obligations of being a public company require significant additional expenditures and place additional demands on our management as we comply with the reporting requirements of a public company. We may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED SEC STAFF COMMENTS We have no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2006 fiscal year that remain unresolved. 