ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Our business is subject to many risks. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects, results of operations and cash flows. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related To Our Business The loss or reduction in scope of any one of our primary contracts will materially reduce our revenue. The majority of our revenue is currently derived from a single contract with a U.S. government agency that can be terminated at any time. Approximately 77.2% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011 was derived from our top five customers, including NGA, which accounted for approximately 60.1% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011. These contracts may be terminated in the future, or may not be renewed or extended, and the loss of any one of these customers would materially reduce our revenue and could have a material adverse effect on our business financial condition and results of operations. Our contracts with U.S. government agencies are subject to risks of termination or reduction in scope due to changes in U.S. government policies, priorities or funding level commitments to various agencies. Under the EnhancedView SLA, we are obligated to make a portion of the image tasking capacity of the WorldView constellation available to NGA, including specified priority access rights. To support requirements under the EnhancedView contract, we have begun the construction of our next satellite, WorldView-3, are investing in infrastructure to integrate certain of our operations more closely with NGA and are engaged in the expansion of our global network of regional ground terminals. As part of EnhancedView, we had previously agreed with NGA that we would lower the altitude of WorldView-2 from its current altitude of 770 km to an altitude of 680 km in September 2011. In August 2011 NGA notified us that it was waiving its right to have us lower WorldView-2 in September 2011. NGA continues to have the option to require us to lower the altitude of WorldView-2 to 496 km at any time after September 1, 2013, subject to receipt of all required regulatory approvals. The lowering of the orbital altitude would result in a decrease in the amount of square kilometers collected by WorldView-2. While we believe the decrease in collection capability would be offset by improved data capture capabilities on the ground resulting from the expansion of our ground terminal network, there can be no assurance that our current collection capability will be maintained. Our ability to service other customers could be negatively impacted if we are unable to maintain our current collection capacity. In addition, any inability on our part to meet the performance requirements of the EnhancedView contract could result in a breach of our contract with NGA. A breach of our contract with NGA or reduction in service to our other clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. NGA may also terminate or suspend our contracts, including EnhancedView, at any time with or without cause. Although our NGA contracts generally involve fixed annual minimum commitments, such commitments are subject to annual Congressional appropriations and the federal budget process, and as a result, NGA may not continue to fund these contracts at current or anticipated levels. In addition, the sequestration process under the Budget Control Act of 2011 (PL 112-25) could have an adverse impact on the timing and amount of appropriations available for defense programs, including EnhancedView. Under the terms of the Budget Control Act, discretionary spending is capped, and any breach of the caps would result in automatic, across-the-board spending cuts, known as sequestration. The Budget Control Act assumed that spending cap recommendations would be recommended to Congress by the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction. This Committee failed to come to agreement, and accordingly sequestration will be implemented beginning with the January 2013 budget in the event the law is not amended. Upon implementation, sequestration would be implemented by the Office of Management and Budget every January with the submission of the President’s budget over the next 11 Table of Contents decade. This will result in reductions of approximately $600 billion in Department of Defense budgets over the Fiscal Year 2013-2021 period compared to currently projected budget levels. We cannot tell you how those cuts may affect the EnhancedView contract or other current or future business with the Department of Defense. Reductions in the current EnhancedView program or other current or future business with the Department of Defense resulting from sequestration could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations Any program delays encountered in implementing the infrastructure enhancements required to support the EnhancedView contract, or in the construction, launch and operational commissioning of our WorldView-3 satellite, may affect our ability to meet our obligations under the EnhancedView contract resulting in a reduction of a scope or termination of the contract, and may otherwise require us to increase our reliance on our existing satellites to meet our business needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under the EnhancedView contract we are obligated to meet certain capacity and timeliness of delivery requirements. To meet these requirements, we are expanding our network of ground terminals around the world. We added five new ground terminals during 2011, and we expect to add three new ground terminals with all installations expected to be complete by September 2012. Any delay in bringing one or more ground terminals on-line may impact our ability to provide the capacity and meet delivery timelines required under the EnhancedView contract. In addition, delays may reduce the overall capacity available to service our non-NGA customers following any lowering of our WorldView-2 satellite. To support requirements under the EnhancedView contract, we have contracted for and started manufacture of our WorldView-3 satellite. We currently expect to launch and commission WorldView-3 in the second half of 2014. The manufacturing, testing and launch of satellites, involves complex processes and technology and we rely on third party contractors for the manufacturing, testing and launch of our satellites, including WorldView-3. Many factors, including, but not limited to, availability of parts, subcontractor and supplier delays and anomalies discovered during testing, may result in significant delays to the WorldView-3 program. In addition, while we have contracted with Lockheed Martin Commercial Launch Services for the launch of WorldView-3 in mid-2014, launch windows and specific dates, once scheduled, are subject to change and may be materially delayed for reasons beyond our control, including intervening launch failures of other satellites, reduced availability of launch facilities and support crew, and preemption by certain government launches. After launch, the satellite must be calibrated and tested to confirm operational capability, a commissioning process that typically takes several months. The satellite may not pass the operational commissioning tests or may not otherwise operate as required. For example, satellites may experience technical difficulties communicating with the ground station center or collecting imagery in the same quality or volume that was intended. The failure to construct and launch WorldView-3 on time or to achieve operational commissioning on time or at all could affect our ability to meet our obligations under the EnhancedView contract and may otherwise limit the anticipated volume of imagery products and services available to meet our business needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Breach of our system security measures or loss of our secure facility clearance and accreditation could result in interruption, delay or suspension of our ability to provide our products and services, and could result in loss of current and future business, including our U.S. government contracts. Breach of our system security could materially adversely affect our business. Our business involves the transmission and storage of large quantities of electronic data, including the imagery comprising our ImageLibrary. In addition, our business is becoming increasingly web-based, allowing our customers to access and take delivery of imagery from our ImageLibrary over the Internet. From time to time, we have experienced computer virus and other forms of third party attacks on our systems that, to date, have not had a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot assure you, however, that future attacks will not materially adversely affect our business. 12 Table of Contents Despite the implementation and continued upgrading of security measures, our network infrastructure may be vulnerable to computer viruses, unauthorized third party access, or other problems caused by third parties, which could lead to interruptions, delays or suspension of our operations, loss of imagery from our ImageLibrary, as well as the loss or compromise of technical information or customer information. Inappropriate use of the Internet by third parties including attempting to gain unauthorized access to information or systems – commonly known as “cracking” or “hacking” – could also potentially jeopardize the overall security of our systems, and could deter certain customers from doing business with us. In addition, a security breach that involved classified or other sensitive government information, or certain controlled technical information, could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, and could result in loss of our secure facility clearance and other accreditations, loss of our government contracts, loss of access to classified information, loss of export privileges, or debarment as a government contractor. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to otherwise infect or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. We may also need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches. The risk that these types of events could seriously harm our business is likely to increase as we expand the number of web based products and services we offer as well as increase the number of countries within which we do business. Changes in U.S. government policy regarding use of commercial data providers, or material delay or cancellation of the planned U.S. government EnhancedView program may have a material adverse effect on our revenue and our ability to achieve our growth objectives. Current U.S. government policy encourages the use by the U.S. government of commercial data providers to support U.S. national security objectives. We are considered by the U.S. government to be a commercial data provider. U.S. government policy is subject to change and any change in policy away from supporting the use of commercial data providers to meet U.S. government imagery needs could materially affect our revenue and our ability to achieve our growth objectives. Management’s determination that material weaknesses exist in our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures could have a material adverse impact on us. We are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of our consolidated financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. We are also required to maintain disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC. In Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, management reports that material weaknesses exist in our internal control over financial reporting, principally that the Company did not maintain effective controls over the accuracy, completeness and presentation of the accounting for DAP contracts and also that the Company did not maintain a sufficient complement of personnel with appropriate level of accounting knowledge, experience and training. Management has also concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective at the reasonable assurance level as of December 31, 2011 because of the material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting that have been identified. We are currently in the process of remediating the material weaknesses we have identified. If we are unable to remediate our current material weaknesses or if we have additional material weaknesses in the future and are not able to remedy such material weaknesses in a timely manner, we may be unable to provide our stockholders with the required financial information in a timely, and reliable manner which could subject us to stockholder litigation, regulatory enforcement actions or other adverse consequences. This could materially and adversely impact our business and financial condition, perceptions of us among investors and other constituencies, and the market value of our securities. 13 Table of Contents Interruption or failure of our infrastructure could hurt our ability to effectively perform our daily operations and provide our products and services, which could damage our reputation and harm our operating results. The availability of our products and services depends on the continuing operation of our satellite operations infrastructure, information technology and communications systems. Any downtime, damage to or failure of our systems could result in interruptions in our service, which could reduce our revenue and profits. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks or other attempts to harm our systems. We do not currently maintain a back-up data center from which we can continue to collect, process and deliver imagery in the event of the loss of our primary capabilities. In the event we are unable to collect, process and deliver imagery from our primary facility in Longmont, Colorado, our daily operations and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our ground station centers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, intentional bad acts, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, war, terrorist attacks, power losses, hardware failures, systems failures, telecommunications failures and similar events. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could result in lengthy interruptions in our services and/or damage our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If our satellites fail to operate as intended, our ability to collect imagery and market our products and services successfully could be materially and adversely affected. Our satellites employ advanced technologies and sensors that are exposed to severe environmental stresses in space that could affect our satellites’ performance. Hardware component problems in space could lead to deterioration in performance or loss of functionality of a satellite, with attendant costs and revenue losses. In addition, human operators may execute improper implementation commands that may negatively impact a satellite’s performance. Exposure of our satellites to an unanticipated catastrophic event, such as a meteor shower or a collision with space debris, could reduce the performance of, or completely destroy, the affected satellite. We cannot assure you that our QuickBird, WorldView-1 and WorldView-2 satellites will continue to operate successfully in space throughout their expected operational lives. Even if a satellite is operated properly, technical flaws in that satellite’s sensors or other technical deficiencies could significantly hinder its performance, which could materially affect our ability to collect imagery and market our products and services successfully. If we suffer a partial or total loss of a deployed satellite, we would need a significant amount of time and would incur substantial expense to replace that satellite. We may experience other problems with our satellites that may reduce their performance. During any period of time in which a satellite is not fully operational, we may lose most or all of the revenue that otherwise would have been derived from that satellite. In addition, we may not have on hand, or be able to obtain in a timely manner, the necessary funds to cover the cost of any necessary satellite replacement. Our inability to repair or replace a defective satellite or correct any other technical problem in a timely manner could result in a significant loss of revenue. We are highly dependent upon our ImageLibrary and our failure or inability to protect and maintain the earth imagery content stored in our ImageLibrary could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Approximately 54.5% of our revenue is generated from our ImageLibrary, excluding EnhancedView SLA. Our operations depend upon our ability to maintain and protect our earth imagery content and our ImageLibrary against damage that may be caused by fire and other natural disasters, power failures, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, unauthorized intrusion, computer viruses, equipment malfunction or inadequacy, firewall breach or other events. The satellite imagery content we collect is downloaded directly to our Longmont, Colorado facility and then stored in our ImageLibrary for sale to customers. Our aerial imagery is collected and processed by our aerial suppliers and then delivered to us to be uploaded to our ImageLibrary. We back up our 14 Table of Contents imagery and permanently store it with a third party data storage provider. Notwithstanding precautions we have taken to protect our ImageLibrary, there can be no assurance that a natural disaster or other event would not result in a prolonged interruption in our ability to provide access to or deliver imagery from our ImageLibrary to our clients. The temporary or permanent loss or disruption of access to our ImageLibrary could impair our ability to supply current and future customers with imagery content, have a negative impact on our revenue and cause harm to our reputation. Any impairment in our ability to supply our customers with imagery content could affect our ability to retain or attract customers, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market may not accept our imagery products and services. You should not rely upon our historic growth rates as an indicator of future growth. Our success depends on existing markets accepting our imagery products and services and our ability to develop new markets. Our business plan is based on the assumption that we will generate significant future revenue from sales of imagery products and services produced from our QuickBird, WorldView-1, WorldView-2 satellites, our planned WorldView-3 satellite and our other imagery content sources. The commercial sale of high-resolution earth imagery and related products and services is a relatively new industry. Consequently, it is difficult to predict the ultimate size of the market and the acceptance by the market of our products and services. Our business strategy and projections rely on a number of assumptions, some or all of which may be incorrect. Actual markets could vary materially from the potential markets that we have identified. We cannot accurately predict whether our products and services will achieve significant market acceptance or whether there will be a market for our products and services on terms we find acceptable. Market acceptance of our commercial high-resolution earth imagery and related products and services depends on a number of factors, including the quality, scope, timeliness, sophistication, price, and the availability of substitute products and services. Lack of significant market acceptance of our offerings, or other products and services that utilize our products and services, delays in acceptance, failure of certain markets to develop or our need to make significant investments to achieve acceptance by the market would negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not continue to grow in line with historical rates, or at all. If we are unable to achieve sustained growth, we may be unable to execute our business strategy, expand our business or fund other liquidity needs and our prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We face competition that may cause us to have to reduce our prices or to lose market share. Our products and services compete with satellite and aerial imagery and related products and services offered by a range of private and government providers. Our current or future competitors may have greater financial, personnel and other resources than we have. Our major existing competitors include GeoEye, Astrium Geo-Information Services, ImageSat International N.V., RapidEye, foreign governments including India, South Korea, Taiwan, and others that sell their data commercially, as well as numerous aggregators of imagery and imagery-related products and services, including Google and Microsoft. In addition, we compete against aerial providers of high-resolution imagery, whose offerings provide certain benefits over satellite-based imagery, including better resolution and accuracy. The value of our imagery may also be diluted by Earth imagery that is available free of charge. The U.S. government and foreign governments also may develop, construct, launch and operate their own imagery satellites, which could reduce their need to rely on commercial suppliers. In addition, such governments could sell or provide free of charge Earth imagery from their satellites in the commercial market and thereby compete with our imagery products and services. These governments could also subsidize the development, launch and operation of imagery satellites by our current or future competitors. In December 2011, Astrium Geo-Information Services successfully launched its high-resolution satellite, Pleiades-1, which is expected to begin commercial operations in the first half of 2012. Its twin satellite, 15 Table of Contents Pleiades-2, is expected to be launch in 2013. In addition, two medium resolution satellites, SPOT 6 and SPOT 7, are currently under construction and expected to be launched in 2012 and 2014, respectively. Additionally, GeoEye continues to build its next high-resolution satellite, GeoEye-2, and expects to launch it in the first half of 2013, with commercial operations beginning in the second half of 2013. Our competitors, including GeoEye and Astrium Geo-Information Services, or potential competitors with greater resources than ours could in the future offer satellite-based imagery or other products and services with more attractive features than our products and services. The emergence of new remote imaging technologies or the continued growth of low-cost imaging satellites, such as those built and sold by Surrey Satellite Technologies, Ltd, could negatively affect our marketing efforts. More importantly, if competitors develop and launch satellites or other imagery content sources with more advanced capabilities and technologies than ours, or offer services at lower prices than ours, our business and results of operations could be harmed. From time to time, we have experienced decreases in the average sales prices of some of our products and services. Due to competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or our competitors, or other factors, the average selling price of our products and services may further decrease. If we are unable to offset decreases in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes or by adjusting our product mix, our revenue and operating margins may decline and our financial position may be harmed. Changes in U.S. or foreign laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Our industry is highly regulated due to the sensitive nature of satellite technology. We cannot assure you that the laws and regulations governing our business and operations, including the distribution of satellite imagery, will not change in the future. Our business and operating results may be materially and adversely affected if we are required to alter our business operations to comply with such changes or if our ability to sell our products and services on a global basis is reduced or restricted due to increased U.S. or foreign government regulation. Failure to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals could result in service interruptions or could impede us from executing our business plan. Approvals. Our business requires licenses from the DoC, through NOAA. Under our NOAA licenses, the U.S. government reserves the right to interrupt service or limit our ability to distribute satellite images when foreign policy or U.S. national security interests are affected. In addition, NOAA has the right to review and approve the terms of certain of our agreements with international customers, including our DAP customers. We currently have the necessary approvals for our existing international customers. However, such reviews in the future could delay or prohibit us from executing new international agreements. The inability to get approvals for DAP customers could materially affect our ability to establish and grow our DAP business. In addition, should we not get approvals in a timely manner our products and services may not be competitive. Export Approvals. The ground station equipment and related technology that is purchased by certain of our DAP customers is controlled under the ITAR. We, or our suppliers, must obtain export licenses from the DoS, and in some cases from foreign government agencies, in order to export ground station equipment and related technology to our DAP customers. Export licenses can take up to three months or longer to be processed and neither the DoS nor any corresponding foreign government agency are obligated to approve any license application. Our inability or the inability of our suppliers to get required export approvals for equipment and technology supporting DAP could materially affect our ability to establish and grow our DAP business. FCC Approvals. Our operation of satellites and ground station centers also requires licenses from the FCC. The FCC regulates the construction, launch and operation of our satellites, the use of satellite frequency spectrum and the licensing of our ground station centers located within the United States. We are also subject to the FCC’s rules and regulations and the terms of our licenses, which require us to comply with various operating conditions and requirements. The current licenses of our satellites expire in September of 2012 and those of our 16 Table of Contents ground station centers expire in 2019 and 2021. While the FCC generally renews licenses routinely, there can be no assurance that our licenses will be renewed at their expiration dates on favorable terms or without adverse conditions. Failure to renew these licenses could have a material and adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue and conduct our business as currently expected. In addition, we must apply for and receive a license for our WorldView-3 satellite. Failure to receive the required FCC license for WorldView-3 could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our obligations under the EnhancedView contract. International Registration and Approvals. The use of satellite frequency spectrum internationally is subject to the rules and requirements of the ITU. Additionally, satellite operators must abide by the specific laws of the countries in which downlink services are provided from the satellite to ground station centers within such countries. The FCC has coordinated the operations for each of our satellites pursuant to the ITU requirements. Coordination of our satellites with other satellite systems is required by the ITU to help prevent harmful frequency interference from or into existing or planned satellite operations. We do not expect significant issues relating to the coordination of our satellites due to the nature of satellite imaging operations. Our foreign DAP customers are responsible for securing necessary licenses and operational authority to use the required spectrum in each country into which we will downlink high resolution commercial earth imagery. If such customers are not successful in obtaining the necessary approvals, we will not be able to distribute real-time imagery to those customers. Our inability to offer real-time access service in a significant number of foreign countries could negatively affect our business. In addition, regulatory provisions in countries where we wish to operate may impose unduly burdensome restrictions on our operations. Our business may also be adversely affected if the national authorities where we plan to operate adopt treaties, regulations or legislation unfavorable to foreign companies. Global economic conditions may adversely impact our business, operating results or financial condition. Disruption and volatility in global financial markets may lead to increased rates of default and bankruptcy, and may negatively impact consumer spending levels. These macroeconomic developments could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Current or potential customers, including foreign governments, may delay or decrease spending on our products and services as their business and/or budgets are impacted by economic conditions. The inability of current and potential customers to pay us for our products and services may adversely affect our earnings and cash flows. We are dependent on foreign resellers for our international revenue. If these resellers fail to market or sell our products and services successfully, our business would be harmed. In 2011, we generated $111.2 million in revenue, or 32.8% of our total revenue, from our foreign resellers and partners. We rely on our foreign regional resellers and partners to market and sell the majority of our products and services in the international market. We have intensified our efforts to further develop our operations in overseas markets. Our foreign resellers and partners may not have the skill or experience to develop regional commercial markets for our imagery products and services, or may have competing interests that negatively affect their sales of our products and services. If we fail to enter into reseller agreements on a timely basis or if our foreign resellers and partners fail to market and sell our imagery products and services successfully, these failures could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our international business exposes us to risks relating to increased regulation and political or economic instability in foreign markets, which could adversely affect our revenue. In 2011, approximately 32.8% of our revenue was derived from international sales, and we intend to continue to pursue international contracts. International operations are subject to certain risks, such as: • changes in domestic and foreign governmental regulations and licensing requirements; • deterioration of relations between the United States and a particular foreign country; 17 Table of Contents • increases in tariffs and taxes and other trade barriers; • changes in political and economic stability, including fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies, which may make payment in U.S. dollars, as provided for under some of our existing contracts, more expensive for foreign customers; and • affects of austerity programs or similar significant budget reduction programs; and • difficulties in obtaining or enforcing judgments in foreign jurisdictions. These risks are beyond our control and could have a material and adverse effect on our business. We depend on third parties to provide us with aerial imagery. If we are unable to obtain aerial imagery at sufficient resolution, quality, or on commercially reasonable terms, our ability to supplement our content library may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not own planes or other similar aircraft and therefore depend on a network of aerial imagery suppliers to provide us with aerial imagery to include in our ImageLibrary. The imagery must meet certain quality specifications, including resolution requirements, to allow it to be used by us in products and services we sell to our customers. Aerial imagery is collected and processed by our aerial suppliers and then delivered to us to be uploaded into our ImageLibrary. If our aerial imagery suppliers are unable to meet quality specifications or delivery time lines, the comprehensiveness and currency of our ImageLibrary could be diminished or become compromised. In addition, any inability to reach mutually acceptable commercial arrangements with our current aerial suppliers, or find new aerial providers to supply us with aerial imagery on commercially reasonable terms, could result in our inability to maintain or expand our customer base or to bring to market certain products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend upon our ability to attract, train and retain employees. Our inability to do so, or the loss of key personnel, would seriously harm our business. Because of the specialized nature of our business, we rely heavily on our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific, technical, sales, marketing and managerial personnel. The loss of one or more of our senior executive officers could result in the loss of knowledge, experience and technical expertise within the satellite imagery sector, which would be detrimental to us if we cannot recruit suitable replacements in a timely manner. The competition for qualified personnel in the commercial high-resolution earth imagery industry is intense. Due to this intense competition, we may be unable to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business or to recruit suitable replacement personnel. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management or the inability to hire or retain experienced management personnel could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan and harm our operating results. Satellites have limited operational lives and are expensive to replace. Loss of, or damage to, a satellite may require us to seek additional financing from outside sources, which we may be unable to obtain on favorable terms, if at all. We determine a satellite’s useful life, or its expected operational life, using a complex calculation involving the probabilities of failure of the satellite’s components from design or manufacturing defects, environmental stresses, estimated remaining fuel or other causes. The expected ends of the operational lives of our currently in-orbit satellites are as follows: Satellite Expected End ofOperational Life QuickBird Q3 2013 WorldView-1 Q2 2018 WorldView-2 Q1 2021 18 Table of Contents The expected operational lives of these satellites are affected by a number of factors, including the quality of construction, the supply of fuel, the expected gradual environmental degradation of solar panels, the durability of various satellite components and the orbits in which the satellites are placed. The failure of satellite components could cause damage to or loss of the use of a satellite before the end of its expected operational life. Electrostatic storms or collisions with other objects could also damage our satellites. We cannot assure you that each satellite will remain in operation until the end of its expected operational life. Furthermore, we expect the performance of each satellite to decline gradually near the end of its expected operational life. We can offer no assurance that QuickBird, WorldView-1 or WorldView-2 will maintain their prescribed orbits or remain operational. We anticipate using funds generated from operations to fund the construction and launch of any future satellites, including WorldView-3. If we do not generate sufficient funds from operations, we may need to obtain additional financing from outside sources to deploy any future satellites, including WorldView-3. If we do not generate sufficient funds from operations and cannot obtain financing, we will not be able to deploy any future satellites, including WorldView-3, or be able to replace any of our operating satellites at the end of their operational lives. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient funds from operations or raise additional capital on favorable terms or on a timely basis, if at all, to develop or deploy additional high-resolution satellites. Limited insurance coverage and availability may prevent us from obtaining insurance to cover all risks of loss. As of December 31, 2011, we maintain the following insurance coverage on our satellite constellations: Satellite Policy Period Coverage(inmillions) QuickBird 10/2011 — 10/2012 $ 11.0 WorldView-1 10/2011 — 10/2012 235.0 WorldView-2 10/2011 — 10/2012 182.0 WorldView-2 10/2009 — 10/2012 68.0 We intend to continue this coverage to the extent it remains available at acceptable premiums. It is anticipated that the insurance proceeds received in connection with a partial or total loss of QuickBird, WorldView-1 or WorldView-2 may not be sufficient to cover the replacement cost, if we choose to do so, of an equivalent high-resolution satellite. In addition, this insurance will not protect us against all losses to our satellites due to specified exclusions, deductibles and material change limitations, and it may be difficult to insure against certain risks, including a partial deterioration in satellite performance. The price and availability of insurance have fluctuated significantly since we began offering commercial services in 2001. Although we have historically been able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for our in-orbit satellites, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so in the future. Although we intend to maintain insurance for all of our operating satellites, any determination we make as to whether to obtain insurance coverage will depend on a variety of factors, including the availability of insurance in the market, the cost of available insurance, and the redundancy of our operating satellites. Insurance market conditions or factors outside our control at the time we are in the market for the required insurance, such as failure of a satellite using similar components, could cause premiums to be significantly higher than current estimates and could reduce amounts of available coverage. Higher premiums on insurance policies will increase our costs and consequently reduce our operating income by the amount of such increased premiums. If the terms of in-orbit insurance policies become less favorable than those currently available, there may be limits on the amount of coverage that we can obtain or we may not be able to obtain insurance at all. Even if obtained, our in-orbit operations insurance will not cover any loss in revenue incurred as a result of a partial or total satellite loss. 19 Table of Contents We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, including our ability to incur additional indebtedness. As of December 31, 2011, our total indebtedness was $500.0 million. Our balance, $486.6 million which is net of discounts of $13.4 million, represented 50.2% of our total capitalization. Our indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate sufficient cash to pay, when due, the principal, interest or other amounts due with respect to our indebtedness. We established a $500 million, seven-year senior term loan facility and a $100 million, five-year senior secured revolving credit facility, the terms of which are set forth in a Credit and Guaranty Agreement dated as of October 12, 2011 among the Company, the guarantors party thereto, the lenders named therein and J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent and as collateral agent. As of today, we have not drawn any amounts under the revolving Credit Facility. Our indebtedness could have several consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industry in which we operate, placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged and who, therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting. The credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities contains a number of restrictions and covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make investments, pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders, grant liens on our assets, sell assets, enter into a new or different line of business, enter into transactions with our affiliates, merge or consolidate with other entities or transfer all or substantially all of our assets, and enter into sale and leaseback transactions. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants in the future is uncertain and will be affected by the levels of cash flow from our operations and events or circumstances beyond our control. Our failure to comply with any of the restrictions and covenants under our senior secured credit facilities could cause all of our existing indebtedness to be immediately due and payable. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our indebtedness or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. If our indebtedness is in default for any reason, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We expect that the price of our common stock will fluctuate substantially. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. Factors that could contribute to the volatility of our stock include: • termination or expiration of one or more of our key contracts, or a change in scope or purchasing levels under one or more of our contracts, including the EnhancedView contract, our DAP contracts, or other large contracts; • unfounded rumors and leaks of information, or formal announcements regarding federal budget cuts, including, but not limited to, reduction in budgets affecting the Department of Defense; • failure of our satellites to operate as designed; 20 Table of Contents • loss or damage to any of our satellites; • changes in U.S. or foreign governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals, clearances or future applications; • our announcements or our competitors’ announcements regarding new products or services, enhancements, significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic investments; • changes in the availability of insurance; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any, who cover our common stock; • fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; • success of competitive products and services; • changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities, sales of large blocks of common stock by our stockholders or the incurrence of additional debt; • investors’ general perception of us, including any perception of misuse of sensitive information; • changes in general global economic and market conditions; • changes in industry conditions; and • changes in regulatory and other dynamics. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many companies in the technology sector, which have often been unrelated to their operating performance or prospects for future operations. These broad fluctuations may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. Future market movements may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: the existence of a classified board of directors; limitations on the removal of directors; advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations; the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; the ability of our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our by-laws; and provisions that permit the redemption of stock from foreign stockholders where necessary, in the judgment of our board of directors, to protect our licenses and registrations. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock. We anticipate that we will retain all of our future earnings, if any, for use in the development and expansion of our business and for general corporate purposes. Any determination to pay dividends on our common stock in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 21 Table of Contents 