ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our company involves various risks, including the risk that you might lose your entire investment. Our results of operations depend upon many factors including our ability to implement our business strategy, the availability of opportunities to acquire assets and make loans, the level and volatility of interest rates, the cost and availability of short- and long-term credit, financial market conditions, and general economic conditions. The following discussion concerns some of the risks associated with our business. These risks are interrelated, and you should treat them as a whole. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, may also materially and adversely affect the value of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. In connection with the forward-looking statements that appear in Part I, Item 1A, of this report on Form 10-K and elsewhere, you should carefully review the section entitled “Cautions About Forward-Looking Information.” Risks Related to Adverse Market Conditions In general, changes in market conditions could adversely and materially affect our businesses and the value of our common stock could be negatively impacted. Risk is an inherent part of our business. Our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally around the world. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, high global gross domestic product growth, stable geopolitical conditions, 21 Table of Contents transparent and efficient capital markets, liquid markets with active investors, low inflation, high business and consumer confidence and strong business earnings. Slowing growth, contraction of credit, increasing energy prices, declines in business or investor confidence or risk tolerance, increases in inflation, higher unemployment, outbreaks of hostilities or other geopolitical instability, corporate, political or other scandals that reduce investor confidence in capital markets and natural disasters, among other things, can affect the global financial markets. In addition, economic or political pressures in a country or region may cause local market disruptions and currency devaluations, which may also affect markets generally. In the event of changes in market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, equity, fixed income, commodity or real estate valuations, liquidity, availability of credit or volatility, our businesses could be adversely affected in many ways. Our cash flows may decline as a result of adverse market conditions. Recently, the residential real estate market in the U.S. has experienced a significant downturn due to declining real estate values, substantially reducing mortgage loan originations and securitizations, and precipitating more generalized credit market dislocations and a significant contraction in available liquidity globally, which has negatively impacted our revenues. These factors have continued into the beginning of fiscal 2008 and, combined with rising oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown and fears of a possible recession. These factors could continue beyond fiscal 2008. Continued or further credit market dislocations or sustained market downturns may reduce cash flows from our clients and adversely affect the value of our common stock. Our revenues from our capital markets business and asset management businesses have been impacted by adverse market conditions and may continue to be impacted in the future. Revenues from our capital markets business are directly related to the number and size of the transactions in which we participate and therefore were adversely affected in the latter half of 2007 by the mortgage and credit market dislocations, and may be further impacted by continued or further credit market dislocations or sustained market downturns. Our results of operations could continue to be impacted in 2008 and beyond as a result of these market factors. Sustained market downturns or continued or further credit market dislocations and liquidity issues would also likely lead to a decline in the volume of capital market transactions that we execute for our institutional brokerage clients and, therefore, to a decline in the revenues we receive from commissions and spreads earned from the trades we execute for our clients. In addition, because the fees that we charge for managing our clients’ portfolios are in many cases based on the value of those portfolios, a market downturn that reduces the value of our clients’ portfolios would reduce the revenues we receive from our asset management business. Heightened risk aversion among investors may cause them to shift their trading activity to higher quality and more liquid products, which are generally somewhat less profitable for us. Continued adverse developments in the residential mortgage market may adversely affect the value of our portfolio agency-backed MBS and agency CMOs and our ability to finance or sell the securities that we acquire. Recently, the residential mortgage market in the United States has experienced a variety of difficulties and changes in economic conditions that may adversely affect the performance and market value of our agency-backed MBS and agency CMOs. Securities backed by residential mortgage loans originated in 2006 and 2007 have had a higher and earlier than expected rate of delinquencies. Many residential MBS have been downgraded by the rating agencies during the past few months and the rating agencies may in the future provide further downgrades or downgrade additional issuances of residential MBS. As a result, the market for these securities may be adversely affected for a significant period of time. We intend to deploy capital into our core principal investing business of investing in agency-backed MBS agency CMOs. Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae guarantee the payments on the agency-backed MBS we acquire, including the agency-backed MBS including in our agency CMOs, even if the borrowers of the underlying mortgages default on their payments. However, rising delinquencies could negatively affect the value of our agency-backed MBS and our agency CMOs or create market uncertainty about their true value. We rely on 22 Table of Contents our agency-backed MBS and agency CMOs as collateral for our short-term financings. Any decline in their value, or perceived market uncertainty about their value, would likely make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all, or maintain our compliance with the terms of any financing arrangements already in place. At the same time, market uncertainty about residential mortgages in general could depress the market for agency-backed MBS, making it more difficult for us to sell any agency-backed MBS or agency CMOs we own on favorable terms, or at all. If market conditions result in a decline in available purchasers of agency-backed MBS or the value of our agency-backed MBS and agency CMOs, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. The current weakness in the mortgage market may adversely affect some of our potential lenders, which may result in increases in our borrowing costs and reductions in the value of the securities in our portfolio of agency-backed MBS, including our agency CMOs. The current weakness in the mortgage market may adversely affect some of our potential lenders, which we believe could render some of our lenders unable or unwilling to extend credit to us when needed. This may increase our financing costs. Partially as a result of several major market participants experiencing distress, marketability of all fixed income securities recently has been negatively impaired, including agency-backed MBS. If many of our potential lenders are unwilling or unable to provide us with financing, we may be unable to leverage our portfolio or, to the extent it may already be levered, we could be forced to sell our agency-backed MBS, including our agency CMOs, at a time when prices are depressed. The combination of a lower asset base and more stringent financing terms would likely negatively impact our taxable income and cash available for distributions to shareholders. During 2007, dislocations in the capital markets became magnified. Since June 30, 2007, several large financial institutions reported that dislocations in the non-prime mortgage market had spread to the Alt-A mortgage market and structured finance markets. Because many asset-backed collateralized debt obligations and asset-backed commercial paper programs contain non-agency securities, all sectors of the fixed income markets and financing markets have come under stress. Several holders of these assets reported difficulty maintaining financing for mortgages and mortgage-backed securities. Some were unable to meet margin calls in connection with this financing. Much of the stress in the financial markets was focused on non-agency residential mortgages and the financing of these assets. The dislocations were pronounced in the non-prime residential MBS market. Lenders demanded higher rates and greater levels of over-collateralization to finance these assets. The agency-backed MBS market experienced some effects of these dislocations as lenders’ terms became more stringent generally. Lenders’ capacity to finance agency-backed MBS became more limited, though to a lesser degree than in the non-agency securities markets. Financing rates for agency-backed MBS remain elevated and over-collateralization rates remain higher than those generally prevailing prior to the recent market dislocations. If such conditions persist or worsen, we may experience increased borrowing costs and reductions in our liquidity and the value of our portfolio of agency-backed MBS investments, including our agency CMOs. The combination of a lower asset base and more stringent financing terms will likely negatively impact our taxable income and cash available for distributions to shareholders. General Risks Related to our Business We may not be able to manage our growth efficiently, which may adversely affect our results and may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. We have experienced growth in our business activities. Our growth has required, and our growth will continue to require, increased investment in management and professionals, personnel, financial and management systems and controls and facilities, which could cause our operating margins to decline from historical levels, especially in the absence of revenue growth. In addition, as is common in the industry, our broker-dealer subsidiaries will continue to be highly dependent on the effective and reliable operation of communications and information systems and business continuity plans. We believe that our anticipated future 23 Table of Contents growth will require implementation of new and enhanced communications and information systems and training of our personnel to operate these systems. In addition, the scope of procedures for assuring compliance with applicable laws and regulations and NASD (now FINRA) rules has changed as the size and complexity of our business has changed. As we continue to grow, we will continue to implement additional formal compliance procedures to reflect our growth. Any difficulty or significant delay in the implementation or operation of existing or new systems, compliance procedures or the training of personnel could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends. The voting power of our principal shareholders and other executive officers, directors and nominees may result in corporate action with which you do not agree and may discourage third party acquisitions of our company and prevent our shareholders from receiving any premium above market price for their shares. Eric F. Billings has significant influence over our operations through his ownership of our common stock, which, as of January 31, 2008, represents approximately 13.9% of the total voting power of our common stock. In addition, Mr. Billings serves as one of our directors and as our Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Billings also serves as a member of the board of directors and as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of FBR Capital Markets. Mr. Billings and all of our other executive officers, directors and nominees, as a group, control, as of January 31, 2008, approximately 16.1% of our total voting power. The extent of the influence that Mr. Billings and our other officers, directors and nominees have over us may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire control of our company and may preclude holders of our common stock from receiving any premium above market price for their shares that may be offered in connection with any attempt to acquire control of our company without the approval of Mr. Billings. The trading prices of our Class A common stock may be adversely affected by factors outside of our control. Any negative changes in the public’s perception of the prospects for companies in the REIT, the mortgage-backed securities, or the merchant banking industries, or in the investment banking, securities brokerage, asset management, or financial services industries could depress our stock price regardless of our results. The following factors could contribute to the volatility of the price of our Class A common stock: • actual or unanticipated variations in our quarterly results; • changes in our level of dividend payments; • new products or services offered by us and our competitors; • changes in our financial estimates by securities analysts; • conditions or trends in the investment or financial services industries in general; • changes in interest rate environments and the mortgage market that cause our borrowing costs to increase, our reported yields on our mortgage-backed securities to decrease or that cause the value of our mortgage-backed securities to decrease; • increased defaults under non-conforming residential mortgage loans originated by First NLC and held in our portfolio; • announcements by us of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, investments or joint ventures; • changes in the market valuations of the companies in which we make principal investments; • negative changes in the public’s perception of the prospects of investment or financial services companies; • changes in the regulatory environment in which our business operates; • general economic conditions such as a recession, or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations; 24 Table of Contents • any obstacles in continuing to qualify as a REIT, including changes in law applicable to REITs; • additions or departures of our key personnel; and • additional sales of our securities. Many of these factors are beyond our control. We may experience significant fluctuations in quarterly operating results due to the volatile nature of the investment banking and securities business and the sensitivity of our principal investing business to changes in interest rates and fluctuations in the stock market and we may therefore fail to meet profitability or dividend expectations, which may, in turn, affect the market price of our Class A common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and from year to year due to a combination of factors, including: • the number and size of underwriting and merger and acquisition transactions completed by our investment banking group, and the level and timing of fees received from those transactions; • changes in the earnings from our mortgage-backed securities and other principal investments resulting from market volatility, changes in interest rates and volatility in mortgage loan prepayment rates; • changes in the market valuations of the investments of our managed funds and of the companies in which we have made principal investments; • access to public markets or other exit strategies for companies in which we have made an investment as principal; • the recognition of profits or losses on principal investments or with respect to warrants or other equity-linked securities received in connection with capital-raising activities; • the level of institutional and retail brokerage transactions and the level of commissions received from those transactions; • the timing of recording of asset management fees and special allocations of income, if any; • variations in expenditures for personnel, consulting and legal expenses, and expenses of establishing new business units, including technology expenses; and • other variations in expenditures, including marketing and sponsorship. Any one of these factors could adversely affect the market price of our common Class A stock and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. An increase in market interest rates may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. One of the factors that investors may consider in deciding whether to buy or sell our common stock is our dividend rate as a percentage of our share price, relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates increase, prospective investors may desire a higher dividend rate on our common stock or seek securities paying higher dividends or interest. For instance, if interest rates rise without an increase in our dividend rate, the market price of our common stock could decrease because potential investors may require a higher yield on our common stock as market rates on interest-bearing securities, such as bonds, rise. We will not pay a cash dividend for the fourth quarter of 2007, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to pay dividends in the future. As a REIT, we must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our shareholders, other than any net capital gain and excluding the retained earnings of our taxable REIT subsidiaries. We currently 25 Table of Contents anticipate that our taxable REIT subsidiaries will retain most or all of their earnings and profits, which would make these earnings and profits unavailable for distribution to our shareholders. On December 21, 2007, we announced that our Board of Directors had decided not to pay a cash dividend to our shareholders for the fourth quarter of 2007, concluding at that time that the repurchase of our Class A common stock represented a better use of our financial resources than the payment of cash dividends. Pursuant to our variable dividend policy, our Board of Directors, in it’s sole discretion, may reinstate the payment of cash dividends when appropriate in the future, but there can be no assurances as to when it will do so, if ever. Loss of our 1940 Act exemption would adversely affect us and negatively affect the market price of our Class A common stock and the ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. We believe that we currently are not, and we intend to continue operating our company so that we will not become, regulated as an investment company under the 1940 Act, because we are “primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.” Specifically, we have invested, and intend to continue investing, at least 55% of our assets in mortgage loans or mortgage-backed securities that represent the entire ownership in a pool of mortgage loans and at least an additional 25% of our assets in mortgages, mortgage-backed securities, securities of REITs, and other real estate-related assets. If we fail to qualify for this exclusion from regulation under the 1940 Act, we could be required to restructure our activities. For example, if the market value of our investments in equity securities were to increase by an amount that resulted in less than 55% of our assets being invested in mortgage loans or mortgage-backed securities that represent the entire ownership in a pool of mortgage loans, we might have to sell equity securities in order to qualify for exclusion from regulation under the 1940 Act. The sale could occur under adverse market conditions. Each of our subsidiaries also qualifies for an exemption from regulation as an investment company under the 1940 Act. Failure to procure adequate capital and funding would adversely affect our results and may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our Class A common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. We depend upon the availability of adequate funding and capital for our operations. For example, we invest in mortgage-backed securities funded by short-term borrowings. In addition, our broker-dealer and financial services subsidiaries are dependent on the availability of adequate capital to satisfy applicable regulatory capital requirements. As a REIT, we are required to distribute annually at least 90% of our taxable income, other than any net capital gain and excluding taxable REIT subsidiary earnings, to our shareholders and are therefore not able to retain our earnings for new investments. However, our taxable REIT subsidiaries are able to retain (and likely will continue to retain) earnings for investment in new capital, subject to the various REIT requirements. We have historically satisfied our capital needs from equity contributions, internally generated funds and loans from third parties. We cannot assure you that any, or sufficient, funding or capital will continue to be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us. In the event that we cannot obtain sufficient funding on acceptable terms, there may be a negative impact on the market price of our Class A common stock and our ability to pay dividends. We face intense competition for personnel which could adversely affect our business and in turn negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Our businesses are dependent on the highly skilled, and often highly specialized, individuals we employ. Retention of specialists to manage our mortgage-backed securities portfolio, research analysts, private equity specialists, sales and trading personnel, investment banking personnel, asset management personnel, and technology, lending, management and administrative professionals are particularly important to our prospects. Competition for the recruiting and retention of employees may increase elements of our compensation costs. We 26 Table of Contents cannot assure you that, in order to support our growth plans, we will be able to recruit and hire a sufficient number of new employees with the desired qualifications in a timely manner. We regularly review our compensation policies, including stock incentives. Nonetheless, our incentives may be insufficient in light of competition for experienced professionals in the investment industry, particularly if the value of our stock declines or fails to appreciate sufficiently to be a competitive source of a portion of professional compensation. Increased compensation costs could adversely affect the amount of cash available for distribution to shareholders and our failure to recruit and retain qualified employees could materially and adversely affect our future operating results. We are dependent on a small number of key senior professionals and loss of the professionals could adversely affect our results and may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our Class A common stock and our ability to pay dividends. We generally do not have employment agreements with our senior officers and other key professionals. The loss of professionals, particularly a senior professional with a broad range of contacts in one of our businesses, could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our investment banking strategy is to establish relationships with prospective corporate clients in advance of any transaction, and to maintain these relationships by providing advisory services to corporate clients in equity, debt and merger and acquisition transactions. These relationships depend in part upon the individual employees who represent us in our dealings with our clients. From time to time, other companies in the investment industry have experienced losses of professionals in all areas of the investment business. The level of competition for key personnel includes competition from non-brokerage U.S. and foreign financial services companies, commercial banks, other investment banks and venture capital firms, all of which may target or increase their efforts in some of the same industries that we serve. In particular, we face competition for experienced research analysts, sales and trading personnel, and investment bankers of the type on which our business is highly dependent. We cannot assure you that losses of key personnel will not occur. We are highly dependent on systems and third parties, and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our Class A common stock and our ability to pay dividends. Our business is highly dependent on communications and information systems, including systems provided by our clearing brokers and by and for other third parties. Any failure or interruption of our systems, the systems of our clearing brokers, or third-party trading or information systems could cause delays or other problems in our securities trading activities, including mortgage-backed securities trading activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends. In addition, our clearing brokers provide elements of our principal disaster recovery system. We cannot assure you that we or our clearing brokers will not suffer any systems failure or interruption, including one caused by a hurricane, earthquake, fire, other natural disaster, power or telecommunications failure, act of God, act of war, terrorist attack, pandemic or other emergency situation, or that we or our clearing brokers’ back-up procedures and capabilities in the event of any such failure or interruption will be adequate. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions could significantly harm our business. We may not be able to keep up with rapid technological change, which may adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock and our ability to pay dividends. There are significant technical and financial risks in the development of new services and products or enhanced versions of existing services and products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to: • develop or obtain the necessary technologies; • effectively use new technologies; 27 Table of Contents • adapt our services and products to evolving industry standards; • develop, introduce and market in a profitable manner our services and products; or • enhance or create new services and products. If we are unable to develop and introduce enhanced or new services or products quickly enough to respond to market or customer requirements, or if we or our services and products do not achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition and operating results will be materially adversely affected and our cash available for distribution to stockholders may be negatively impacted. Indemnification agreements with our affiliates may increase the costs to us of litigation against our company. Our charter documents allow indemnification of our officers, directors and agents to the maximum extent permitted by Virginia law, as may the charter documents of our subsidiaries in their respective jurisdictions of incorporation. We have entered into indemnification agreements with these persons. We also have agreed to indemnify FBR Capital Markets against claims that relate to our capital markets businesses that we contributed to FBR Capital Markets prior to completion of the FBR Capital Markets 2006 private offering. In the future we may be the subject of indemnification assertions under these charter documents or agreements by our affiliates who are or may become defendants in litigation. Amounts paid pursuant to these indemnification agreements could adversely affect our financial results and the amount of cash available for distribution to stockholders. Risks Related to Investment Banking, Institutional Brokerage, Sales and Trading, Asset Management and Other Fee-Based Financial Services Businesses Operated by us through our Taxable REIT Subsidiaries We may be adversely affected by the general risks of the financial services and investment banking business. Through taxable REIT subsidiaries, including FBR & Co. (the primary broker-dealer subsidiary of FBR Capital Markets), we operate investment banking, trading, brokerage, asset management and other fee-based financial services businesses. The financial and investment business is, by its nature, subject to numerous and substantial risks, particularly in volatile or illiquid markets and in markets influenced by sustained periods of low or negative economic growth. As a financial services and investment banking firm, we and our operating results may be adversely affected by a number of factors, which include: • the risk of losses resulting from the ownership or underwriting of securities; • the risks of trading securities for our own account (i.e., principal activities) and for our customers; • reduced cash inflows from investors into asset management businesses; • the risk of losses from lending, including to small, privately-owned companies; • counterparty failure to meet commitments; • customer default and fraud; • customer complaints; • employee errors, misconduct and fraud (including unauthorized transactions by traders); • failures in connection with the processing of securities transactions; • litigation and arbitration; • the risks of reduced revenues in periods of reduced demand for public offerings or reduced activity in the secondary markets; and • the risk of reduced fees and commissions we receive for selling securities on behalf of our customers (i.e., underwriting spreads). 28 Table of Contents Any one of these factors could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock and our ability to pay dividends. See “—Risks Related to Adverse Market Conditions.” We depend on relatively few industries to generate a significant percentage of our revenue, which may limit our revenues and net income and may adversely affect our operating results and negatively impact the market price of our common stock. We are dependent on revenues related to securities issued by companies in specific industry sectors. The consumer, diversified industrials, energy and natural resources, financial institutions, healthcare, insurance, real estate and TMT sectors account for the majority of our investment banking, asset management, institutional trading and research activities. Therefore, any downturn in the market for the securities of companies in these industry sectors, or factors affecting such companies, could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Additionally, the frequency and size of securities offerings can vary significantly from industry to industry due to economic, legislative, regulatory and political factors. Underwriting and other capital raising transactions, strategic advisory engagements and related trading activities in our core sectors represent a significant portion of our businesses. This concentration of activity exposes us to the risk of substantial declines in revenues in the event of downturns in our core sectors. Any future downturns in our core sectors could result in a decrease in the size or number of transactions we complete, which would reduce our investment banking revenues. We also derive a significant portion of our revenues from institutional sales and trading transactions related to the securities of companies in these sectors. Our revenues from such institutional sales and trading transactions may decline when underwriting activities in these industry sectors decline, the volume of trading on Nasdaq, the NYSE or any other securities exchange or market declines, or when industry sectors or individual companies report results below investors’ expectations. Our financial results may fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter, which may impair our stock price. We have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, significant quarterly variations in our revenues and results of operations. These variations may be attributed in part to the fact that our investment banking revenues are typically earned upon the successful completion of a transaction, the timing of which is uncertain and beyond our control. In most cases, we receive little or no payment for investment banking engagements that do not result in the successful completion of a transaction. As a result, our business is highly dependent on market conditions as well as the decisions and actions of our clients and interested third parties. In addition, a client’s securities offering may be delayed or terminated because of adverse market conditions, failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals or unexpected financial or other problems in the client’s business. If the parties fail to complete an offering in which we are participating as an underwriter or placement agent, we will earn little or no revenue from the transaction. This risk may be intensified by our focus on early-stage companies in certain sectors, as the market for securities of these companies may experience significant variations in the number and size of equity offerings as well as the after-market trading volume and prices of newly issued securities. Recently, more companies initiating the process of an initial public offering are simultaneously exploring M&A exit opportunities. Our investment banking revenues would be adversely affected in the event that an initial public offering for which we are acting as an underwriter is preempted by the company’s sale if we are not engaged as a strategic advisor in such sale. As a result, we are unlikely to achieve steady and predictable earnings on a quarterly basis, which could in turn adversely affect the price of our common stock. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation – Executive Summary.” 29 Table of Contents Our failure to acquire or internally develop the infrastructure needed to offer a complete range of M&A services and other advisory services or to grow our asset management business could negatively affect the growth of our business. Our ability to expand our M&A business depends upon expanding and enhancing the investment banking services we presently offer. We intend to incur increased costs to expand this business. Our failure to acquire or hire additional M&A professionals to offer additional M&A services or our failure to successfully integrate such M&A services into our existing business could have an adverse impact on our business. Furthermore, our failure to expand our M&A services capabilities to satisfy anticipated near-term demand in our core sectors may harm our growth prospects. Our ability to expand our asset management business depends on a variety of factors, including but not limited to our ability to identify traditional and/or alternative asset managers and strategies, within our company and externally, and our ability to deploy capital into investments in this area. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully identify alternative asset managers and strategies or invest our own capital in alternative asset managers or strategies. Our inability to expand our asset management business could harm our growth prospects and could negatively impact the value of our common stock. Pricing and other competitive pressures may impair the revenues and profitability of our institutional brokerage business. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from our institutional brokerage business. Along with other firms, we have experienced intense price competition in this business in recent years. In particular, the ability to execute trades electronically and through alternative trading systems has increased the pressure on trading commissions and spreads. We expect pricing pressures in the business to continue. Decimalization in securities trading, introduced in 2000, has also reduced revenues and lowered margins within the equity sales and trading divisions of many firms, including ours. We believe we may experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by competing on the basis of price or use their own capital to facilitate client trading activities. In addition, we face pressure from our larger competitors, which may be better able to offer a broader range of complementary products and services to clients in order to win their trading business. If we are unable to compete effectively in these areas, the revenues from our sales and trading business may decline, and our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our research and institutional brokerage business may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations and industry practices. Changes in laws and regulations governing our institutional brokerage and research activities could also adversely affect our institutional brokerage and research business. Changes in industry practices may also adversely affect our results of operations. Historically, our clients have paid us for research through commissions on trades. Recently, Fidelity Investments has entered into arrangements with certain financial institutions of which it is a client, pursuant to which Fidelity Investments agreed to pay separately for trading and research services, a process known as “unbundling.” Previously, Fidelity Investments had, like other fund managers, paid for research from those financial institutions through the commissions that it had paid to those financial institutions for trading services. As a result, the financial institutions that have entered into unbundling arrangements with Fidelity Investments will charge lower commissions per trade but will receive separate compensation for research that they provide to Fidelity Investments. Currently, we are not a party to any unbundling arrangements. However, we cannot assure you that we will not be a party to any unbundling arrangements in the future. It is uncertain whether unbundling arrangements will become an industry trend, and if so, to what extent. Furthermore, we cannot predict the consequences on our business of these arrangements, nor can we predict the impact on our business if unbundling develops as an industry trend. If unbundling becomes prevalent, we cannot assure you that our institutional brokerage clients will also pay us separately for our research, or if they do, that our revenues from these clients will remain the same. If our clients wish to purchase sales and trading and research services separately, we 30 Table of Contents cannot assure you that we will be able to market our services on that basis as effectively as some of our competitors, and our business consequently could be adversely affected. We face strong competition from larger firms, some of which have greater resources and name recognition, which may impede our ability to grow our business. The brokerage and investment banking industries are intensely competitive and we expect them to remain so. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including client relationships, reputation, the abilities of our professionals, market focus and the relative quality and price of our services and products. We have experienced intense price competition in some of our businesses, in particular discounts in large block trades and trading commissions and spreads. In addition, pricing and other competitive pressures in investment banking, including the trends toward increased focus by many larger investment banking companies on institutional equity offerings pursuant to Rule 144A, multiple book runners, co-managers and multiple financial advisors handling transactions, have continued and could adversely affect our revenues, even as the volume and number of investment banking transactions have started to increase. We believe we may experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by competing on the basis of price. Many of our competitors in the brokerage and investment banking industries have a broader range of products and services, greater financial and marketing resources, larger customer bases, greater name recognition, more senior professionals to serve their clients’ needs, greater global reach and more established relationships with clients than we have. These larger and better capitalized competitors may be better able to respond to changes in the brokerage and investment banking industries, to compete for skilled professionals, to finance acquisitions, to fund internal growth and to compete for market share generally. The scale of our competitors has increased in recent years as a result of substantial consolidation among companies in the brokerage and investment banking industries. In addition, a number of large commercial banks, insurance companies and other broad-based financial services firms have established or acquired underwriting or financial advisory practices and broker-dealers or have merged with other financial institutions. These firms have the ability to offer a wider range of products than we do, which may enhance their competitive position. They also have the ability to support investment banking with commercial banking, insurance and other financial services in an effort to gain market share, which has resulted, and could further result, in pricing pressure in our businesses. In particular, the ability to provide financing has become an important advantage for some of our larger competitors and, because we do not provide such financing, we may be unable to compete as effectively for clients in a significant part of the brokerage and investment banking market. If we are unable to compete effectively with our competitors, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our capital markets and strategic advisory engagements are singular in nature and our failure to capture repeat business from existing clients may harm our operating results. Our investment banking clients generally retain us on a short-term, engagement-by-engagement basis in connection with specific capital markets or mergers and acquisitions transactions, rather than on a recurring basis under long-term contracts. As these transactions are typically singular in nature and our engagements with these clients may not recur, we must continuously seek out new engagements when our current engagements are successfully completed or are terminated. As a result, high activity levels in any period are not necessarily indicative of continued high levels of activity in any subsequent period. If we are unable to generate a substantial number of new engagements that generate fees from the successful completion of transactions, our business and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. 31 Table of Contents Larger and more frequent capital commitments in our trading, underwriting and merchant banking businesses increases the potential for us to incur significant losses. There is a trend toward larger and more frequent commitments of capital by financial services firms in many of their activities. For example, in order to win business, investment banks are increasingly committing to purchase large blocks of stock from publicly traded issuers or significant shareholders, instead of the more traditional marketed underwriting process, in which marketing is typically completed before an investment bank commits to purchase securities for resale. With the increased capital available to us from our 2006 private offering, we may undertake more block trades in the future. As a result, we will be subject to increased risk as we commit greater amounts of capital to facilitate primarily client-driven business and, therefore, may suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for others in the industry. Although we have historically not engaged in proprietary trading, we may engage in proprietary trading in the future to maintain trading positions in the fixed income and equity markets. We may enter into large transactions in which we commit our own capital as part of our client trading activities. The number and size of these large transactions may materially affect our results of operations in a given period. We may also incur significant losses from our trading activities due to market fluctuations and volatility in our results of operations. To the extent that we own assets, i.e., have long positions, in any of those markets, a downturn in the value of those assets or in those markets could result in losses. Conversely, to the extent we have sold assets we do not own, i.e., have short positions, in any of those markets, an upturn in those markets could expose us to potentially large losses as we attempt to cover our short positions by acquiring assets in a rising market. Limitations on our access to capital could impair our liquidity and our ability to conduct our businesses. Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to financial services firms. Failures of financial institutions have often been attributable in large part to insufficient liquidity. Liquidity is of particular importance to our trading business and perceived liquidity issues may affect our clients’ and counterparties’ willingness to engage in brokerage transactions with us. Our liquidity could be impaired due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects our trading clients, third parties or us. Further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to sell similar assets at the same time. FBR & Co., which is a domestic registered broker-dealer, is subject to the net capital requirements of the SEC and various self-regulatory organizations of which it is a member. These requirements typically specify the minimum level of net capital a broker-dealer must maintain and also mandate that a significant part of its assets be kept in relatively liquid form. FBRIL, which is a registered broker-dealer in the United Kingdom, is also subject to the capital requirements of the United Kingdom Financial Services Authority, or FSA. Any failure to comply with these net capital requirements could impair our ability to conduct our core business as a brokerage firm. Furthermore, FBR & Co. and FBRIL are subject to laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from them to us. As a holding company, we will depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, including debt obligations. As a result, regulatory actions could impede access to funds that we need to make payments on our obligations, including debt obligations. Our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could harm our business. We have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management strategies and techniques and expect to continue to do so in the future. However, our risk management strategies and techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. We are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, 32 Table of Contents operational failure, breach of contract or other reasons. We are also subject to the risk that our rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. Although we regularly review credit exposures to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. In addition, concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us. If any of the variety of instruments, processes and strategies we utilize to manage our exposure to various types of risk are not effective, we may incur losses. Strategic investments or acquisitions and joint ventures may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our business. We intend to grow our core businesses through both internal expansion and through strategic investments, acquisitions or joint ventures. To the extent we make strategic investments or acquisitions or enter into joint ventures, we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with customers and business partners. In the case of joint ventures, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. In addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and our joint venture partners may negatively impact our businesses. To the extent that we pursue business opportunities outside the United States, we will be subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in a foreign country, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities. In many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. Our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular foreign market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. We are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in the relevant jurisdictions. We may have potential conflicts of interest with our executive officers and employees which could result in decisions that are not in your best interests. From time to time, our executive officers and employees may invest in private or public companies in which we, or one of our affiliates, is or could potentially be an investor or for which we carry out investment banking assignments, publish research or act as a market maker. In addition, we have in the past and will likely in the future organize businesses, such as our hedge, private equity and venture capital funds, in which our executive officers or employees may acquire minority interests or profit interests. There are risks that, as a result of such investment or profit interest, an executive officer or employee may have incentives to take actions that would conflict with our best interests. Our board of directors has adopted a code of business conduct and ethics which contains a policy with respect to conflicts of interest. We also have in place compliance procedures and practices designed to monitor the activities of our executive officers and employees, including their investing activities. While we believe that our code of business conduct and ethics and these procedures and practices will be effective; we cannot guarantee that they will prevent material adverse effects in all conflict of interest situations that might arise. Our capital markets business is dependent on cash inflows to mutual funds and other pooled investment vehicles, which could result in our experiencing operating losses if cash flows slow, and negatively impact cash available for distribution to shareholders. A slowdown or reversal of cash inflows to mutual funds and other pooled investment vehicles could lead to lower underwriting and brokerage revenues for us since mutual funds and other pooled investment vehicles 33 Table of Contents purchase a significant portion of the securities offered in public offerings underwritten by FBR & Co. and subsequently traded in the secondary markets. Demand for new equity offerings has been driven in part by institutional investors, particularly large mutual funds and hedge funds, seeking to invest on behalf of their investors. Our brokerage business is particularly dependent on the institutional market. The public may redeem mutual funds as a result of a decline in the market generally or as a result of a decline in mutual fund net asset values. To the extent that a decline in cash inflows into mutual funds reduces demand by fund managers for initial public or secondary offerings, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Moreover, a slowdown in investment activity by mutual funds may have an adverse effect on the securities markets generally. Such environments may adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock and our ability to pay dividends. Significantly expanded corporate governance and public disclosure requirements may result in fewer initial public offerings and distract existing public companies from engaging in capital market transactions which may reduce the number of investment banking opportunities available to pursue. Highly-publicized financial scandals in recent years have led to investor concerns over the integrity of the U.S. financial markets, and have prompted Congress, the SEC, the NYSE and Nasdaq to significantly expand corporate governance and public disclosure requirements. To the extent that private companies, in order to avoid becoming subject to these new requirements, decide to forgo initial public offerings, our equity underwriting business may be adversely affected. In addition, provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the corporate governance rules imposed by self-regulatory organizations have diverted many companies’ attention away from capital market transactions, including securities offerings and acquisition and disposition transactions. In particular, companies that are or are planning to be public are incurring significant expenses in complying with the SEC and accounting standards relating to internal control over financial reporting, and companies that disclose material weaknesses in such controls under the new standards may have greater difficulty accessing the capital markets. These factors, in addition to adopted or proposed accounting and disclosure changes, may have an adverse effect on our business. Financial services firms have been subject to increased scrutiny over the last several years, increasing the risk of financial liability and reputational harm resulting from adverse regulatory actions. As a participant in the financial services industry, we are subject to extensive regulation under federal and state laws in the U.S. and under the laws of other countries in which we do business. We are also regulated by a number of self-regulatory organizations. The industry has experienced increased scrutiny from a variety of regulators, including the SEC, the NYSE, FINRA and state attorneys general. Penalties and fines sought by regulatory authorities have increased substantially over the last several years. This regulatory and enforcement environment has created uncertainty with respect to a number of transactions that had historically been entered into by financial services firms and that were generally believed to be permissible and appropriate. We may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. We also may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the SEC, other United States or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets, including FINRA. Among other things, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities or subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business prospects. In addition, financial services firms are subject to numerous conflicts of interests or perceived conflicts. The SEC and other federal and state regulators have increased their scrutiny of potential conflicts of interest. We have adopted various policies, controls and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts and regularly seek to review and update our policies, controls and procedures. However, appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal 34 Table of Contents appropriately with conflicts of interest. Our policies and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts may also result in increased costs, additional operational personnel and increased regulatory risk. Failure to adhere to these policies and procedures may result in regulatory sanctions or client litigation. For example, the research areas of investment banks have been and remain the subject of heightened regulatory scrutiny which has led to increased restrictions on the interaction between equity research analysts and investment banking personnel at securities firms. Our exposure to legal liability is significant, and damages that we may be required to pay and the reputational harm that could result from legal action against us could materially adversely affect our businesses. We face significant legal risks in our businesses and, in recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions have been increasing. These risks include potential liability under securities or other laws for materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities offerings and other transactions, potential liability for “fairness opinions” and other advice we provide to participants in strategic transactions and disputes over the terms and conditions of complex trading arrangements. We are also subject to claims arising from disputes with employees for alleged discrimination or harassment, among other things. As a brokerage and investment banking firm, we depend to a large extent on our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain clients. As a result, if a client is not satisfied with our services, it may be more damaging in our business than in other businesses. Moreover, our role as advisor to our clients on important underwriting or mergers and acquisitions transactions involves complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment, including rendering “fairness opinions” in connection with mergers and other transactions. Therefore, our activities may subject us to the risk of significant legal liabilities to our clients and aggrieved third parties, including shareholders of our clients who could bring securities class actions against us. Our investment banking engagements typically include broad indemnities from our clients and provisions to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services, but these provisions may not protect us or may not be enforceable in all cases. As a result, we may incur significant legal and other expenses in defending against litigation and may be required to pay substantial damages for settlements and adverse judgments. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business and prospects. Employee misconduct could harm us and is difficult to detect and deter. Our reputation is critical in maintaining our relationship with clients, investors, regulators and the general public and is a key focus in our risk management efforts. In recent years, there have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud, conflicts of interest or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur at our company. For example, misconduct by employees could involve the improper use or disclosure of confidential information, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm. Misconduct by employees could include binding us to transactions that exceed authorized limits or present unacceptable risks, or hiding from us unauthorized or unsuccessful activities, which, in either case, may result in unknown and unmanaged risks or losses. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use or disclosure of confidential information, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. As a result, we could suffer significant reputational harm for any misconduct by our employees. In addition, in certain circumstances our reputation could be damaged by activities of our clients or of hedge funds or other entities in which we invest, over which we have little or no control. 35 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Principal Investing Activities Declines in the market values of our agency-backed MBS and agency CMOs may adversely affect periodic reported results and credit availability, which may reduce earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to our stockholders. A substantial portion of our assets are classified for accounting purposes either as “trading securities” or as “available-for-sale.” Changes in the market values of those assets will be directly charged or credited to stockholders’ equity. As a result, a decline in value may reduce the book value of our assets. Moreover, if the decline in value of an available-for-sale security is other than temporary, such decline will reduce earnings, as will a decline in the value of our securities classified as trading securities for accounting purposes. A decline in the market value of our agency-backed MBS and agency CMOs may adversely affect us particularly in instances where we have borrowed money based on the market value of those assets. If the market value of those assets declines, the lender may require us to post additional collateral to support the loan. If we were unable to post the additional collateral, we would have to sell the assets at a time when we might not otherwise choose to do so. A reduction in credit available may reduce our earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to shareholders. The sale of our agency-backed MBS and agency CMOs may jeopardize our REIT status. To continue to qualify as a REIT, we must comply with requirements regarding our assets and our sources of income. If we are required to liquidate our agency-backed MBS and our agency CMOs as a result of margin calls, we may be unable to comply with these requirements, ultimately jeopardizing our status as a REIT and our failure to qualify as a REIT will have adverse tax consequences. Our mortgage investing strategy involves leverage, which could adversely affect our operations and negatively affect cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Using debt to finance the purchase of our agency-backed MBS and agency CMOs will expose us to the risk that margin calls will be made and that we will not be able to meet those margin calls. To meet margin calls, we may sell the applicable mortgage-related securities and such sales could result in realized losses, and negatively affect cash available for distribution to our shareholders. While it is not our current policy to leverage the equity securities or loan investments in our merchant banking portfolio, if we were to leverage these investments, this leverage could expose us to the risk that margin calls will be made and that we will not be able to meet them. A leveraged company’s income and net assets will tend to increase or decrease at a greater rate than if borrowed money were not used. We enter into repurchase agreements to finance our agency-backed MBS and agency CMOs, which can amplify the effect of a decline in value resulting from an interest rate increase. For example, assume that we finance $96 million of MBS through repurchase agreements to acquire $100 million of 8% mortgage-backed securities. If prevailing interest rates were to increase sufficiently, the value of the mortgage-backed securities may decline to a level below the amount required to be maintained under the terms of the repurchase agreements. If the mortgage-backed securities were then sold, we would have to transfer additional assets to secure the borrowings. Changes in interest rates could negatively affect the value of our mortgage-backed securities, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We invest indirectly in mortgage loans by purchasing mortgage-backed securities and we currently intend to continue this investment strategy. Under a normal yield curve, an investment in mortgage-backed securities will decline in value if long-term interest rates increase. Despite Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae guarantees 36 Table of Contents of the agency-backed mortgage-backed securities we own, those guarantees do not protect us from declines in market value caused by changes in interest rates. Declines in market value may ultimately reduce earnings or result in losses to us, which may negatively affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders. A significant risk associated with our portfolio of mortgage-related assets is the risk that both long-term and short-term interest rates will increase significantly. If long-term rates were to increase significantly, the market value of these mortgage-backed securities would decline and the weighted average life of the investments would increase. We have realized losses in two of the last three years, and could realize a loss in the future if the mortgage-backed securities were sold. At the same time, an increase in short-term interest rates would increase the amount of interest owed on the repurchase agreements we enter into in order to finance the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. Market values of mortgage-backed securities may decline without any general increase in interest rates for a number of reasons, such as increases in defaults, increases in voluntary prepayments and widening of credit spreads. In addition, changes in interest rates may impact some our merchant banking equity investments in non-conforming mortgage loan originators and other companies whose business models are sensitive to interest rates. An increase in our borrowing costs relative to the interest we receive on our mortgage-related assets may adversely affect our profitability, which may negatively affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders. As our repurchase agreements and other short-term borrowing instruments mature, we will be required either to enter into new repurchase agreements or to sell a portion of our mortgage-related assets or other investment securities. Current conditions in the credit markets may make it impracticable to enter into new repurchase agreements or other short-term facilities “—Risks Related to Adverse Market Conditions.” An increase in short-term interest rates at the time that we seek to enter into new repurchase agreements would reduce the spread between our returns on our mortgage-related assets and the cost of our borrowings. This change in interest rates would adversely affect our returns on our mortgage-related assets portfolio, which might reduce earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Prepayment rates could negatively affect the value of our mortgage-backed securities, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In the case of residential mortgage loans, there are seldom any restrictions on borrowers’ abilities to prepay their loans. Homeowners tend to prepay mortgage loans faster when interest rates decline. Consequently, owners of the loans have to reinvest the money received from the prepayments at the lower prevailing interest rates. Conversely, homeowners tend not to prepay mortgage loans when interest rates increase. Consequently, owners of the loans are unable to reinvest money that would have otherwise been received from prepayments at the higher prevailing interest rates. This volatility in prepayment rates may affect our ability to maintain targeted amounts of leverage on our mortgage-based securities portfolio and may result in reduced earnings or losses for us and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Despite Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae guarantees of principal and interest related to the agency-backed MBS we own, those guarantees do not protect us against prepayment risks. Rapid changes in the values of our mortgage-backed securities and other real estate assets may make it more difficult for us to maintain our REIT status or exemption from the 1940 Act. If the market value or income potential of our mortgage-backed securities and mezzanine loans declines as a result of increased interest rates, prepayment rates or other factors, we may need to increase our real estate 37 Table of Contents investments and income and/or liquidate our non-qualifying assets in order to maintain our REIT status or exemption from the 1940 Act. If the decline in real estate asset values and/or income occurs quickly, this may be especially difficult to accomplish. This difficulty may be exacerbated by the illiquid nature of many of our non-real estate assets. We may have to make investment decisions that we otherwise would not make absent the REIT and 1940 Act considerations. Hedging against interest rate exposure may adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our shareholders. We have entered into and may enter into interest rate swap agreements or pursue other hedging strategies. Our hedging activity will vary in scope based on the level and volatility of interest rates and principal prepayments, the type of mortgage-backed securities held, and other changing market conditions. Interest rate hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things: • interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates; • available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought; • the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability; • the amount of income that a REIT may earn from hedging transactions to offset interest rate losses is limited by federal tax provisions governing REITs; • the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; and • the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay. Our hedging activity may adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Our assets may include mezzanine or senior unsecured loans that may have greater risks of loss than secured senior loans and if those losses are realized, it could adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect our cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Our assets may include mezzanine or senior unsecured loans that involve a higher degree of risk than long-term senior secured loans. First, the loans may not be secured by mortgages or liens on assets. Even if secured, these loans may have higher loan-to-value ratios than a senior secured loan. Furthermore, our right to payment and the security interest may be subordinated to the payment rights and security interests of the senior lender. Therefore, we may be limited in our ability to enforce our rights to collect these loans and to recover any of the loan balance through a foreclosure of collateral. Our loans may have an interest only payment schedule, with the principal amount remaining outstanding and at risk until the maturity of the loan. In this case, a borrower’s ability to repay its loan may be dependent upon a liquidity event that will enable the repayment of the loan. In addition to the above, numerous other factors may affect a company’s ability to repay its loan, including the failure to meet its business plan, a downturn in its industry or negative economic conditions. A deterioration in a company’s financial condition and prospects may be accompanied by deterioration in the collateral for the loan. Losses in our loans could adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our shareholders. 38 Table of Contents We may change our mortgage investment strategy, hedging strategy, asset allocation and operational policies without shareholder consent, which may result in riskier investments and adversely affect the market value of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. We may change our mortgage investment strategy, hedging strategy, asset allocation and operational policies at any time without the consent of our shareholders, which could result in our making investments or hedges that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the investments and hedges described in this report on Form 10-K. A change in our investment or hedging strategy may increase our exposure to interest rate, and real estate market fluctuations. A change in our asset allocation could result in us making investments in instrument categories different from those described in this report on Form 10-K. Our Board of Directors determines our operational policies and may amend or revise our policies, including those with respect to our acquisitions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions or approve transactions that deviate from these policies without a vote of, or notice to, our shareholders. Operational policy changes could adversely affect the market value of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Loans that we may make to highly leveraged companies may have a greater risk of loss which, in turn, could adversely affect our earnings and cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Leverage may have material adverse consequences to the companies to which we may make loans in connection with our merchant banking business and to us as an investor in these companies. These companies may be subject to restrictive financial and operating covenants. The leverage may impair these companies’ ability to finance their future operations and capital needs. As a result, these companies’ flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to business opportunities may be limited. A leveraged company’s income and net assets will tend to increase or decrease at a greater rate than if borrowed money were not used. As a result, leveraged companies have a greater risk of loss. Losses on such loans could adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Our due diligence may not reveal all of a portfolio company’s liabilities and may not reveal other weaknesses in a portfolio company’s business. Before making an investment in a business entity, we assess the strength and skills of the entity’s management and other factors that we believe will determine the success of the investment. In making the assessment and otherwise conducting customary due diligence, we rely on the resources available to us and, in some cases, an investigation by third parties. This process is particularly important and subjective with respect to newly-organized entities because there may be little or no information publicly available about the companies. We cannot assure you that our due diligence processes will uncover all relevant facts or risks about a company or investment that we make, or that any investment will be successful. Any unsuccessful investment may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on management and have limited ability to influence management of portfolio companies. We generally do not control the management, investment decisions or operations of the enterprises in which we have investments. Management of those enterprises may decide to change the nature of their assets or business plan, or management may otherwise change in a manner that is not satisfactory to us. We typically have no ability to affect these management decisions, and as noted below, may have only limited ability to dispose of these investments. We may make merchant banking investments that have limited liquidity, which may reduce the return on those investments to our stockholders. The equity securities of a new publicly-held or privately-held entity in which we invest are likely to be restricted as to resale and may otherwise be highly illiquid. We expect that there will be restrictions on our ability to resell the securities of any private or newly-public company that we acquire for a period of at least one year 39 Table of Contents after we acquire those securities. In addition, applicable REIT tax provisions may cause sales of certain assets to be disadvantageous. Thereafter, a public market sale may be subject to volume limitations or dependent upon securing a registration statement for a secondary offering of the securities. The securities of newly-public entities may trade less frequently and in smaller volume than securities of companies that are more widely held and have more established trading patterns. Sales of these securities may cause their values to fluctuate more sharply. Because we will make investments through an affiliate of FBR & Co., a registered broker-dealer in the U.S., and FBRIL, a registered broker-dealer in the United Kingdom, our ability to invest in companies may be constrained by applicable securities laws and regulations and the rules of FINRA and similar self-regulatory organizations. FBR & Co.’s investment and trading activities are regulated by the SEC, FINRA and other governmental authorities, and FBRIL’s investment and trading activities are regulated by similar regulatory authorities in the United Kingdom, including the FSA. As a result, the rules of the SEC, FINRA and other governmental authorities may limit our ability to invest in the securities of companies whose securities are underwritten or privately placed by our broker-dealer affiliates. Prices of the equity securities of new entities in which we invest may be volatile. We may make investments that are significant relative to the portfolio company’s overall capitalization, and resales of significant amounts of these securities might adversely affect the market and the sales price for the securities. The short- and medium-term loans we make are based, in part, upon our knowledge of the borrower and its industry. In addition, we do not yet nor may we ever have a significant enough portfolio of loans to easily sell them to a third party. As a result, these loans are and may continue to be highly illiquid. Disposition value of our merchant banking investments is dependent upon general and specific market conditions which could result in a decline of the value of the investments. Even if we make an appropriate investment decision based on the intrinsic value of an enterprise, we cannot assure you that the trading market value of the investment will not decline, perhaps materially, as a result of general market conditions. For example, an increase in interest rates, a general decline in the stock markets, or other market conditions adverse to companies of the type in which we invest could result in a decline in the value of our investments. The market for investment opportunities is competitive, which could make it difficult for us to purchase or originate investments at attractive yields, which could have an adverse effect on cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We gain access to investment opportunities only to the extent that they become known to us. Gaining access to investment opportunities is highly competitive. We compete with other companies that have greater capital, more long-standing relationships, broader product offerings and other advantages. Competitors include, but are not limited to, business development companies, small business investment companies, commercial lenders and mezzanine funds and other broker-dealers. Increased competition would make it more difficult for us to purchase or originate investments at attractive yields, which could have an adverse effect on cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We may incur losses as a result of our sector investment activities, which could negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our investments are made primarily through funds which we manage and funds which a third party acts as a manager. These funds may invest in companies in the early stages of their development or in industry sectors that are historically volatile, such as technology or sub-prime mortgage issuers. Our business and prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in early stages of development, particularly companies in new and rapidly evolving markets. Moreover, these funds may invest in 40 Table of Contents privately held companies as to which little public information is available. Accordingly, we depend on these fund managers to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from investing in these companies. Fund managers may or may not be successful in this task. Also, these companies frequently have less diverse product lines and smaller market presence than large competitors. They are thus generally more vulnerable to economic downturns and may experience substantial variations in operating results. Moreover, many of these portfolio companies will require additional equity funding to satisfy their continuing working capital requirements. Because of the circumstances of those companies or market conditions, it is possible that one or more of these portfolio companies will not be able to raise additional financing or may be able to do so only at a price or on terms that are unfavorable to them. Adverse returns with respect to these technology sector investment activities could adversely affect us and our operating results, which could negatively affect the market price of our Class A common stock and our ability to pay dividends. Risks Related to the Sale or Securitization of Non-Conforming Residential Mortgage Loans We Historically Originated or Acquired We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans that we have sold or securitized, as the case may be, or to indemnify holders of our asset-backed securities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business. We historically originated non-conforming residential mortgage loans through First NLC. In addition, we historically acquired non-conforming residential mortgage loans through MHC I, Inc. (MHC), one of our qualified REIT subsidiaries. When we originated or acquired and included these mortgage loans in a securitization transaction or whole loan sale, we made certain representations and warranties regarding certain characteristics of these loans, the borrowers and the underlying properties. If we are found to have breached any of these representations and warranties, we may be required to repurchase those loans or indemnify the holders our the asset-backed securities we issued. If this occurs, we may have to bear any associated losses directly. In addition, in the case of loans that we sold, we may be required to indemnify the purchasers of the loans for losses or expenses incurred as a result of a breach of a representation or warranty. Repurchased loans typically require a significant allocation of working capital to carry on our books. Furthermore, repurchased mortgage loans typically can be sold only at a significant discount to the unpaid principal balance. Any repurchases or indemnification payments with respect to loans that we have securitized or sold could significantly harm our results of operations. We may be subject to losses due to fraudulent and negligent acts on the part of loan applicants, mortgage brokers, other vendors and our employees. When we originated mortgage loans through First NLC, we relied heavily upon information supplied by third parties, including the information contained in the loan application made by the applicant, property appraisal, title information and employment and income documentation. If a third party misrepresented any of this information and if we did not discover the misrepresentation prior to funding the loan, the value of the loan may be significantly lower than anticipated. As a practical matter, we generally bear the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation whether it is made by the loan applicant, the mortgage broker, another third party or one of our employees. A loan with respect to which a material misrepresentation has been made is subject to repurchase if it was sold prior to detection of the misrepresentation. In addition, the persons and entities that made such material misrepresentations, are often difficult to locate, and it is nearly impossible to recoup any monetary losses that we may have suffered, as a result of such material misrepresentations from those who have made them. For a portion of the mortgage loans we originated, we required no or limited documentation of the borrowers’ income and bank account information. Instead, we based our credit decisions largely on the borrowers’ credit score and credit history, the collateral value of the property securing the loan and the effect of the loan on the borrowers’ debt service. There is a higher risk of default on loans where there is little or no documentation of the borrowers’ income. 41 Table of Contents Tax Risks of our Business and Structure Our ownership limitation may restrict change of control or business combination opportunities in which our shareholders might receive a premium for their shares. In order for us to qualify as a REIT, no more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals during the last half of any calendar year. “Individuals” include natural persons, private foundations, some employee benefit plans and trusts, and some charitable trusts. In order to preserve our REIT status, our amended and restated articles of incorporation generally prohibit any shareholder from directly or indirectly owning more than 9.9% of any class or series of our outstanding common stock or preferred stock. The ownership limitation could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which holders of our common stock might receive a premium for their shares over the then prevailing market price or which holders might believe to be otherwise in their best interests. U.S. federal income tax requirements may restrict our operations, which could restrict our ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities, which could negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. We intend to continue to operate in a manner that is intended to cause us to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, the U.S. federal income tax laws governing REITs are extremely complex, and interpretations of the U.S. federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. Qualifying as a REIT requires us to meet various tests regarding the nature of our assets and our income, the ownership of our outstanding stock, and the amount of our distributions on an ongoing basis. In some instances, compliance with these tests may not be completely within our control. For example, some of our investments are in equity securities of other REITs, which generally are qualifying assets and produce qualifying income for purposes of the REIT qualification tests. The failure of the REITs in which we invest to maintain their REIT status, however, could jeopardize our REIT status. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in operating so as to qualify as a REIT. At any time, new laws, interpretations, or court decisions may change the federal tax laws regarding, or the U.S. federal income tax consequences of, qualification as a REIT. In addition, compliance with the REIT qualification tests could restrict our ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities in non-qualifying assets, which would negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. For example, we may be required to limit our investment in non-REIT equity securities and mezzanine loans to the extent that such loans are not secured by real property. Our ownership of and relationship with our taxable REIT subsidiaries will be limited and a failure to comply with the limits would jeopardize our REIT status and may result in the application of a 100% excise tax. A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. A taxable REIT subsidiary may earn income that would not be qualifying income if earned directly by the parent REIT. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a taxable REIT subsidiary. A corporation of which a taxable REIT subsidiary directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a taxable REIT subsidiary. Overall, no more than 20% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. A taxable REIT subsidiary will pay income tax at regular corporate rates on any income that it earns. In addition, the taxable REIT subsidiary rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a taxable REIT subsidiary to its parent REIT to assure that the taxable REIT subsidiary is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a taxable REIT subsidiary and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. All of our operating businesses are conducted through taxable REIT subsidiaries. Our taxable REIT subsidiaries pay corporate income tax on their taxable income, and their after-tax net income is available for distribution to us but is not required to be distributed to us. 42 Table of Contents The aggregate value of the taxable REIT subsidiary stock and securities currently owned by us is significantly less than 20% of the value of our total assets (including the taxable REIT subsidiary stock and securities). Furthermore, we will monitor the value of our investments in our taxable REIT subsidiaries for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the rule that no more than 20% of the value of our assets may consist of taxable REIT subsidiary stock and securities (which is applied at the end of each calendar quarter). In addition, we will scrutinize all of our transactions with our taxable REIT subsidiaries for the purpose of ensuring that they are entered into on arm’s-length terms in order to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. There can be no complete assurance, however, that we will be able to comply with the 20% limitation on ownership of taxable REIT subsidiary stock and securities on an ongoing basis so as to maintain REIT status or to avoid application of the 100% excise tax imposed on certain non-arm’s-length transactions. Failure to make required distributions would subject us to tax, which would reduce the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. In order to qualify as a REIT, an entity must distribute to its shareholders, each calendar year, at least 90% of its taxable income, other than any net capital gain and excluding any retained earnings of taxable REIT subsidiaries. To the extent that a REIT satisfies the 90% distribution requirement, but distributes less than 100% of its taxable income, it will be subject to federal corporate income tax on its undistributed income. In addition, the REIT will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which its distributions in any calendar year are less than the sum of: • 85% of its ordinary income for that year; • 95% of its capital gain net income for that year; and • 100% of its undistributed taxable income from prior years. We intend to continue to pay out our REIT taxable income to our shareholders in a manner intended to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid both corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax. However, there is no requirement that taxable REIT subsidiaries distribute their after-tax net income to their parent REIT or their shareholders and our taxable REIT subsidiaries may elect not to make any distributions to us. Our taxable income may substantially exceed our net income as determined based on generally accepted accounting principles because, for example, capital losses will be deducted in determining our GAAP income, but may not be deductible in computing our taxable income. In addition, we may invest in assets that generate taxable income in excess of economic income or in advance of the corresponding cash flow from the assets, referred to as phantom income. Although some types of phantom income are excluded in determining the 90% distribution requirement, we will incur corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax with respect to any phantom income items if we do not distribute those items on an annual basis. As a result of the foregoing, we may generate less cash flow than taxable income in a particular year. In that event, we may be required to use cash reserves, incur debt, or liquidate non-cash assets at rates or times that we regard as unfavorable in order to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in that year. Failure to qualify as a REIT would subject us to U.S. federal income tax, which would reduce the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any calendar year, we would be required to pay U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income. We might need to borrow money or sell assets in order to pay that tax. Our payment of income tax would decrease the amount of our income available for distribution to our shareholders. Furthermore, if we cease to be a REIT, we no longer would be required to distribute substantially all of our taxable income to our shareholders. Unless our failure to qualify as a REIT were excused under federal tax laws, we could not re-elect REIT status until the fifth calendar year following the year in which we failed to qualify. 43 Table of Contents The requirement that we distribute at least 90% of our taxable income to our shareholders, other than net capital gains and excluding the retained earnings of our taxable REIT subsidiaries, each year will result in our shareholders receiving periodic taxable distributions. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must distribute to our shareholders, each calendar year, at least 90% of our taxable income; other than net capital gains and excluding the taxable income of our taxable REIT subsidiaries. As a result, our shareholders receive periodic distributions from us. These distributions generally are taxable as ordinary income to the extent that they are made out of our current or accumulated earnings and profits. Our ordinary REIT dividends generally are not eligible for the reduced tax rates applicable to dividends paid by regular C corporations. A sale of assets acquired as part of the 2003 merger between pre-merger Friedman, Billings, Ramsey Group, Inc. and FBR Asset Investment Corp. within ten years after the merger would result in corporate income tax, which would reduce the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. If we sell any asset that we acquired as part of the 2003 merger between pre-merger Friedman, Billings, Ramsey Group, Inc. and FBR Asset Investment Corp., including the stock and securities of certain of our taxable REIT subsidiaries, within ten years after the merger and recognize a taxable gain on the sale, we will be taxed at the highest corporate rate on an amount equal to the lesser of: • the amount of gain that we recognize at the time of the sale; or • the amount of gain that we would have recognized if we had sold the asset at the time of the merger for its then fair market value. This rule potentially could inhibit us from selling assets acquired as part of the 2003 merger within ten years after the merger. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our common stock. The federal income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended at any time. Any of those new laws or interpretations may take effect retroactively and could adversely affect us or you as a shareholder. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 