Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors and all other information contained in this report should be considered carefully when evaluating us. These risk factors could affect our actual results. Other risks and uncertainties, in addition to those that are described below, may also impact our results of operations. If any of the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be affected materially and adversely. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other detailed information concerning us set forth in our accompanying financial statements and notes and contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included herein. Our cash flow consists almost exclusively of distributions from Crosstex Energy, L.P. Our only cash-generating assets are our partnership interests in Crosstex Energy, L.P. Our cash flow is therefore completely dependent upon the ability of the Partnership to make distributions to its partners. The amount of cash that the Partnership can distribute to its partners, including us, each quarter principally depends upon the amount of cash it generates from its operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the amount of natural gas transported in its gathering and transmission pipelines; • the level of the Partnership’s processing and treating operations; • the fees the Partnership charges and the margins it realizes for its services; • the price of natural gas; • the relationship between natural gas and NGL prices; and • its level of operating costs. In addition, the actual amount of cash the Partnership will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond its control, including: • the level of capital expenditures the Partnership makes; • the cost of acquisitions, if any; • its debt service requirements; • fluctuations in its working capital needs; • restrictions on distributions contained in its bank credit facility; • its ability to make working capital borrowings under its bank credit facility to pay distributions; • prevailing economic conditions; and • the amount of cash reserves established by the general partner for the proper conduct of its business. 16 Table of Contents We are largely prohibited from engaging in activities that compete with the Partnership. So long as we own the general partner of the Partnership, we are prohibited by an omnibus agreement with the Partnership from engaging in the business of gathering, transmitting, treating, processing, storing and marketing natural gas and transporting, fractionating, storing and marketing NGLs, except to the extent that the Partnership, with the concurrence of its independent directors comprising its conflicts committee, elects not to engage in a particular acquisition or expansion opportunity. This exception for competitive activities is relatively limited. Although we have no current intention of pursuing the types of opportunities that we are permitted to pursue under the omnibus agreement such as competitive opportunities that the Partnership declines to pursue or permitted activities that are not competition with the Partnership, the provisions of the omnibus agreement may, in the future, limit activities that we would otherwise pursue. In our corporate charter, we have renounced business opportunities that may be pursued by the Partnership or by affiliated stockholders that hold a majority of our common stock. In our restated charter and in accordance with Delaware law, we have renounced any interest or expectancy we may have in, or being offered an opportunity to participate in, any business opportunities, including any opportunities within those classes of opportunity currently pursued by the Partnership, presented to: • persons who are officers or directors of the company or who, on October 1, 2003, were, and at the time of presentation are, stockholders of the company (or to persons who are affiliates or associates of such officers, directors or stockholders), if the company is prohibited from participating in such opportunities by the omnibus agreement; or • two affiliated stockholders with a substantial interest in our company, Yorktown Energy Partners IV, L.P. and Yorktown Energy Partners V, L.P., or any other investment fund sponsored or managed by Yorktown Partners LLC, including any fund still to be formed, or to any of our directors who is an affiliate or designate of these entities. As a result of this renunciation, these officers, directors and stockholders should not be deemed to be breaching any fiduciary duty to us if they or their affiliates or associates pursue opportunities presented as described above. Substantially all of our partnership interests in the Partnership are subordinated to the common units. We own 10,000,000 units representing limited partner interests in the Partnership, of which 7,001,000 are subordinated units and 2,999,000 are common units. During the subordination period, the subordinated units will not receive any distributions in a quarter until the Partnership has paid the minimum quarterly distribution of $0.25 per unit, plus any arrearages in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution from prior quarters, on all of the outstanding common units. Distributions on the subordinated units are therefore more uncertain than distribution on the common units. Furthermore, no distributions may be made on the incentive distribution rights until the minimum quarterly distribution has been paid on all outstanding units. Therefore, distributions with respect to the incentive distribution rights are even more uncertain than distributions on the subordinated units. Neither the subordinated units nor the incentive distribution rights are entitled to any arrearages from prior quarters. Generally, the subordination period ends, and the subordinated units convert to common units, only after December 31, 2007 and only upon the satisfaction of certain financial tests. Although we control the Partnership, the general partner owes fiduciary duties to the Partnership and the unitholders. Conflicts of interest exist and may arise in the future as a result of the relationship between us and our affiliates, including the general partner, on the one hand, and the Partnership and its limited partners, on the other hand. The directors and officers of Crosstex Energy GP, LLC have fiduciary duties to manage the general partner in a manner beneficial to us, its owner. At the same time, the general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage the Partnership in a manner beneficial to the Partnership and its limited partners. The board of directors of Crosstex Energy GP, LLC will resolve any such conflict and has broad latitude to consider the interests of all parties to the conflict. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our best interest or that of our stockholders. 17 Table of Contents For example, conflicts of interest may arise in the following situations: • the allocation of shared overhead expenses to the Partnership and us; • the interpretation and enforcement of contractual obligations between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and the Partnership, on the other hand, including obligations under the omnibus agreement; • the determination of the amount of cash to be distributed to the Partnership’s partners and the amount of cash to be reserved for the future conduct of the Partnership’s business; • the determination whether to make borrowings under the capital facility to pay distributions to partners; and • any decision we make in the future to engage in activities in competition with the Partnership as permitted under our omnibus agreement with the Partnership. If the general partner is not fully reimbursed or indemnified for obligations and liabilities it incurs in managing the business and affairs of the Partnership, its value, and therefore the value of our common stock, could decline. The general partner may make expenditures on behalf of the Partnership for which it will seek reimbursement from the Partnership. In addition, under Delaware partnership law, the general partner, in its capacity as the general partner of the Partnership, has unlimited liability for the obligations of the Partnership, such as its debts and environmental liabilities, except for those contractual obligations of the Partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. To the extent the general partner incurs obligations on behalf of the Partnership, it is entitled to be reimbursed or indemnified by the general partner. In the event that the Partnership is unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify the general partner, the general partner may be unable to satisfy these liabilities or obligations, which would reduce its value and therefore the value of our common stock. Acquisitions by the Partnership typically increase its debt and subject it to other substantial risks, which could adversely affect its results of operations. The Partnership’s future financial performance will depend, in part, on its ability to make acquisitions of assets and businesses at attractive prices. From time to time, the Partnership will evaluate and seek to acquire assets or businesses that it believes complements existing business and related assets. The Partnership may acquire assets or businesses that it plans to use in a manner materially different from their prior owner’s use. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including: • the inability to integrate the operations of acquired businesses or assets; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • the loss of customers or key employees from the acquired businesses; • a significant increase in the Partnership’s indebtedness; and • potential environmental or regulatory liabilities and title problems. Management’s assessment of these risks is necessarily inexact and may not reveal or resolve all existing or potential problems associated with an acquisition. Realization of any of these risks could adversely affect the Partnership’s operations and cash flows. If the Partnership consummates any future acquisition, its capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and you will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that the Partnership will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources. The Partnership continues to consider large acquisition candidates and transactions. The integration, financial and other risks discussed above will be amplified if the size of the Partnership’s future acquisitions increases. The Partnership’s acquisition strategy is based, in part, on expectation of ongoing divestitures of gas processing and transportation assets by large industry participants. A material decrease in such divestitures will limit the Partnership’s opportunities for future acquisitions and could adversely affect its growth plans. 18 Table of Contents The Partnership is vulnerable to operational, regulatory and other risks associated with South Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico, including the effects of adverse weather conditions such as hurricanes, because a significant portion of its assets are located in South Louisiana. The Partnership’s operations and revenues will be significantly impacted by conditions in South Louisiana because the Partnership has a significant portion of its assets located in South Louisiana. This concentration of activity makes the Partnership more vulnerable than many of its competitors to the risks associated with Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico, including: • adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms; • delays or decreases in production, the availability of equipment, facilities or services; and • changes in the regulatory environment. Because a significant portion of the Partnership’s operations could experience the same condition at the same time, these conditions could have a relatively greater impact on the Partnership’s results of operations than they might have on other midstream companies who have operations in a more diversified geographic area. In addition, the Partnership’s operations in South Louisiana are dependent upon continued deep shelf drilling in the Gulf of Mexico. The deep shelf in the Gulf of Mexico is an area that has had limited historical drilling activity. This is due, in part, to its geological complexity and depth. Deep shelf development is more expensive and inherently more risky than conventional shelf drilling. A decline in the level of deep shelf drilling in the Gulf of Mexico could have a adverse effect on the Partnership’s financial condition and results of operations. The Partnership’s profitability is dependent upon prices and market demand for natural gas and NGLs, which are beyond its control and have been volatile. The Partnership is subject to significant risks due to fluctuations in commodity prices. These risks are based upon three components of the Partnership’s business: (1) it purchases certain volumes of natural gas at a price that is a percentage of a relevant index; (2) certain processing contracts for its Gregory system and its Plaquemine and Gibson processing plants expose it to natural gas and NGL commodity price risks; and (3) part of its fees from its Conroe and Seminole gas plants as well as those acquired in the El Paso Acquisition are based on a portion of the NGLs produced, and, therefore, is subject to commodity price risks. The margins the Partnership realizes from purchasing and selling a portion of the natural gas that it transports through its pipeline systems decrease in periods of low natural gas prices because its gross margins related to such purchases are based on a percentage of the index price. For the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005, the Partnership purchased approximately 9% and 7.5%, respectively, of its gas at a percentage of relevant index. Accordingly, a decline in the price of natural gas could have an adverse impact on its results of operations. A portion of the Partnership’s profitability is affected by the relationship between natural gas and NGL prices. For a component of the Partnership’s Gregory system and its Plaquemine plant and Gibson plant volumes, the Partnership purchases natural gas, processes natural gas and extracts NGLs, and then sells the processed natural gas and NGLs. A portion of the Partnership’s profits from the plants acquired in the El Paso Acquisition is dependent on NGL prices and elections by the Partnership and the producers. In cases where the Partnership processes gas for producers when they have the ability to decide whether to process their gas, the Partnership may elect to receive a processing fee or it may retain and sell the NGLs and keep the producer whole on its sale of natural gas. Since the Partnership extracts energy content, which it measures in Btus, from the gas stream in the form of the liquids or consumes it as fuel during processing, the Partnership reduces the Btu content of the natural gas. Accordingly, the Partnership’s margins under these arrangements can be negatively affected in periods in which the value of natural gas is high relative to the value of NGLs. In the past, the prices of natural gas and NGLs have been extremely volatile and we expect this volatility to continue. For example, in 2004, the NYMEX settlement price for natural gas for the prompt month contract ranged from a high of $7.98 per MMBtu to a low of $5.08 per MMBtu. In 2005, the same index ranged from $13.91 per MMBtu to $6.12 per MMBtu. A composite of the OPIS Mt. Belvieu monthly average liquids price based upon the Partnership’s average liquids composition in 2004 ranged from a high of approximately $0.98 per gallon to a low of 19 Table of Contents approximately $0.66 per gallon. In 2005, the same composite ranged from approximately $1.17 per gallon to approximately $0.80 per gallon. The Partnership may not be successful in balancing its purchases and sales. In addition, a producer could fail to deliver contracted volumes or deliver in excess of contracted volumes, or a consumer could purchase less than contracted volumes. Any of these actions could cause the Partnership’s purchases and sales not to be balanced. If the Partnership’s purchases and sales are not balanced, the Partnership will face increased exposure to commodity price risks and could have increased volatility on its operating income. The markets and prices for residue gas and NGLs depend upon factors beyond the Partnership’s control. These factors include demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs, which fluctuate with changes in market and economic conditions and other factors, including: • the impact of weather on the demand for oil and natural gas; • the level of domestic oil and natural gas production; • the level of domestic industrial and manufacturing activity; • the availability of imported oil and natural gas; • actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations; • the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems; • the availability and marketing of competitive fuels; • the impact of energy conservation efforts; and • the extent of governmental regulation and taxation. The Partnership must continually compete for natural gas supplies, and any decrease in its supplies of natural gas could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. Competition is intense in many of the Partnership’s markets. The principal areas of competition include obtaining gas supplies and the marketing and transportation of natural gas and NGLs. The Partnership’s competitors include major integrated oil companies, interstate and intrastate pipelines and natural gas gatherers and processors. Some of the Partnership’s competitors offer more services or have greater financial resources and access to larger natural gas supplies than it does. If the Partnership is unable to maintain or increase the throughput on its systems by accessing new natural gas supplies to offset the natural decline in reserves, its business and financial results could be materially, adversely affected. In addition, the Partnership’s future growth will depend, in part, upon whether it can contract for additional supplies at a greater rate than the rate of natural decline in its currently connected supplies. In order to maintain or increase throughput levels in the Partnership’s natural gas gathering systems and asset utilization rates at its treating and processing plants, the Partnership must continually contract for new natural gas supplies. The Partnership may not be able to obtain additional contracts for natural gas supplies. The primary factors affecting the Partnership’s ability to connect new wells to its gathering facilities include its success in contracting for existing natural gas supplies that are not committed to other systems and the level of drilling activity near its gathering systems. Fluctuations in energy prices can greatly affect production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. Drilling activity generally decreases as oil and natural gas prices decrease. Tax policy changes could have a negative impact on drilling activity, reducing supplies of natural gas available to the Partnership’s systems. The Partnership has no control over producers and depends on them to maintain sufficient levels of drilling activity. A material decrease in natural gas production or in the level of drilling activity in the Partnership’s principal geographic areas for a prolonged period, as a result of depressed commodity prices or otherwise, likely would have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial position. 20 Table of Contents A substantial portion of the Partnership’s assets are connected to natural gas reserves that will decline over time, and the cash flows associated with those assets will decline accordingly. A substantial portion of the Partnership’s assets, including its gathering systems and treating plants, is dedicated to certain natural gas reserves and wells for which the production will naturally decline over time. Accordingly, the Partnership’s cash flows associated with these assets will also decline. If the Partnership is unable to access new supplies of natural gas either by connecting additional reserves to its existing assets or by constructing or acquiring new assets that have access to additional natural gas reserves, its cash flows may decline. Growing the Partnership’s business by constructing new pipelines and processing and treating facilities subjects the Partnership to construction risks, risks that natural gas supplies will not be available upon completion of the facilities and risks of construction delay and additional costs due to obtaining rights-of-way. One of the ways the Partnership intends to grow its business is through the construction of additions to its existing gathering systems and construction of new pipelines and gathering, processing and treating facilities. The construction of pipelines and gathering, processing and treating facilities requires the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, which may exceed the Partnership’s expectations. Generally, the Partnership may have only limited natural gas supplies committed to these facilities prior to their construction. Moreover, the Partnership may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which anticipated production growth does not materialize. The Partnership may also rely on estimates of proved reserves in its decision to construct new pipelines and facilities, which may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough natural gas to achieve the Partnership’s expected investment return, which could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the Partnership faces the risks of construction delay and additional costs due to obtaining rights-of-way. The Partnership is in the process of completing a 143-mile pipeline and associated gathering lines from an area near Fort Worth, Texas into new markets accessed by the NGPL pipeline system. Drilling success in the Barnet Shale formation in the area has expanded productions beyond the capacity of the existing pipeline infrastructure to efficiently access markets. Capital cost to construct the pipeline and associated facilities are estimated to be approximately $115 million. The Partnership has limited control over the development of certain assets because it is not the operator. As the owner of non-operating interests in the Seminole and Blue Water gas processing plants, the Partnership does not have the right to direct or control the operation of the plants. As a result, the success of the activities conducted at these plants, which are operated by a third party, may be affected by factors outside of the Partnership’s control. The failure of the third-party operator to make decisions, perform its services, discharge its obligations, deal with regulatory agencies or comply with laws, rules and regulations affecting these plants, including environmental laws and regulations, in a proper manner could result in material adverse consequences to the Partnership’s interest and adversely affect the Partnership’s results of operations. The Partnership expects to encounter significant competition in any new geographic areas into which it seeks to expand and its ability to enter such markets may be limited. As the Partnership expands its operations into new geographic areas, the Partnership expects to encounter significant competition for natural gas supplies and markets. Competitors in these new markets will include companies larger than the Partnership, which have both lower capital costs and greater geographic coverage, as well as smaller companies, which have lower total cost structures. As a result, the Partnership may not be able to successfully develop acquired assets and markets located in new geographic areas and its results of operations could be adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents The Partnership is exposed to the credit risk of its customers and counterparties, and a general increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by its customers could have an adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Risks of nonpayment and nonperformance by the Partnership’s customers are a major concern in its business. The Partnership is subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by its customers. Any increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by the Partnership’s customers could adversely affect its results of operations. The Partnership may not be able to retain existing customers or acquire new customers, which would reduce its revenues and limit its future profitability. The renewal or replacement of existing contracts with the Partnership’s customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows depends on a number of factors beyond the Partnership’s control, including competition from other pipelines, and the price of, and demand for, natural gas in the markets it serves. For the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 74% of the Partnership’s sales of gas which were transported using its physical facilities were to industrial end-users and utilities. As a consequence of the increase in competition in the industry and volatility of natural gas prices, end-users and utilities are reluctant to enter into long-term purchase contracts. Many end-users purchase natural gas from more than one natural gas company and have the ability to change providers at any time. Some of these end-users also have the ability to switch between gas and alternate fuels in response to relative price fluctuations in the market. Because there are numerous companies of greatly varying size and financial capacity that compete with the Partnership in the marketing of natural gas, the Partnership often competes in the end-user and utilities markets primarily on the basis of price. The inability of the Partnership’s management to renew or replace its current contracts as they expire and to respond appropriately to changing market conditions could have a negative effect on its profitability. The Partnership depends on certain key customers, and the loss of any key customer could adversely affect financial results. The Partnership derives a significant portion of its revenues from contracts with key customers. To the extent that these and other customers may reduce volumes of natural gas purchased under existing contracts, CELP would be adversely affected unless it was able to make comparably profitable arrangements with other customers. Agreements with key customers provide for minimum volumes of natural gas that each customer must purchase until the expiration of the term of the applicable agreement, subject to certain force majeure provisions. Customers may default on their obligations to purchase the minimum volumes required under the applicable agreements. The Partnership’s business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. The Partnership’s operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the gathering, compressing, treating and processing of natural gas and storage of residue gas, including: • damage to pipelines, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, floods, fires and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism; • inadvertent damage from construction and farm equipment; • leaks of natural gas, NGLs and other hydrocarbons; and • fires and explosions. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage and may result in curtailment or suspension of the Partnership’s related operations. The Partnership’s operations are concentrated in Texas, Louisiana and the Mississippi Gulf Coast, and a natural disaster or other hazard affecting this region could have a material adverse effect on its operations. The Partnership is not fully insured against all risks incident to its business. In accordance with typical industry practice, the Partnership does not have any property insurance on any of its 22 Table of Contents underground pipeline systems that would cover damage to the pipelines. The Partnership is not insured against all environmental accidents that might occur, other than those considered to be sudden and accidental. The Partnership’s business interruption insurance covers only its Gregory processing plant. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, it could adversely affect the Partnership’s operations and financial condition. The threat of terrorist attacks has resulted in increased costs, and future war or risk of war may adversely impact the Partnership’s results of operations and its ability to raise capital. Terrorist attacks or the threat of terrorist attacks cause instability in the global financial markets and other industries, including the energy industry. Uncertainty surrounding retaliatory military strikes or a sustained military campaign may affect the Partnership’s operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities, including pipelines, production facilities, and transmission and distribution facilities, could be direct targets, or indirect casualties, of an act of terror. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism, the war in Iraq or future developments could also affect the Partnership’s ability to raise capital. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to the threat of terrorist attacks have made certain types of insurance more difficult for the Partnership to obtain. The Partnership’s insurance policies now generally exclude acts of terrorism. Such insurance is not available at what the Partnership believes to be acceptable pricing levels. A lower level of economic activity could also result in a decline in energy consumption, which could adversely affect the Partnership’s revenues or restrict its future growth. Federal, state or local regulatory measures could adversely affect the Partnership’s business. While the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or FERC, generally does not regulate any of the Partnership’s operations, directly or indirectly, FERC influences certain aspects of the Partnership’s business and the market for its products. As a raw natural gas gatherer, the Partnership generally is exempt from FERC regulation under the Natural Gas Act of 1938, or NGA, but FERC regulation still significantly affects the Partnership’s business. In recent years, FERC has pursued pro-competitive policies in its regulation of interstate natural gas pipelines. However, we cannot assure you that FERC will continue this approach as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to natural gas transportation capacity. Some of the Partnership’s intrastate natural gas transmission pipelines are subject to regulation as a common carrier and as a gas utility by the Texas Railroad Commission, or TRRC. The TRRC’s jurisdiction extends to both rates and pipeline safety. The rates the Partnership charges for transportation services are deemed just and reasonable under Texas law unless challenged in a complaint. Should a complaint be filed or should regulation become more active, the Partnership’s business may be adversely affected. Other state and local regulations also affect the Partnership’s business. The Partnership is subject to ratable take and common purchaser statutes in the states where it operates. Ratable take statutes generally require gatherers to take, without undue discrimination, natural gas production that may be tendered to the gatherer for handling. Similarly, common purchaser statutes generally require gatherers to purchase without undue discrimination as to source of supply or producer. These statutes have the effect of restricting the Partnership’s right as an owner of gathering facilities to decide with whom it contracts to purchase or transport natural gas. Federal law leaves any economic regulation of natural gas gathering to the states, and some of the states in which the Partnership operates have adopted complaint-based or other limited economic regulation of natural gas gathering activities. States in which the Partnership operates that have adopted some form of complaint-based regulation, like Oklahoma and Texas, generally allow natural gas producers and shippers to file complaints with state regulators in an effort to resolve grievances relating to natural gas gathering access and rate discrimination. The states in which the Partnership conducts operations administer federal pipeline safety standards under the Pipeline Safety Act of 1968. The “rural gathering exemption” under the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968 presently exempts substantial portions of the Partnership’s gathering facilities from jurisdiction under that statute, including those portions located outside of cities, towns, or any area designated as residential or commercial, such as a subdivision or shopping center. The “rural gathering exemption,” however, may be restricted in the future, and it 23 Table of Contents does not apply to the Partnership’s natural gas transmission pipelines. In response to recent pipeline accidents in other parts of the country, Congress and the Department of Transportation have passed or are considering heightened pipeline safety requirements. Compliance with pipeline integrity regulations issued by the TRRC, or those issued by the United States Department of Transportation, or DOT, in December of 2003 could result in substantial expenditures for testing, repairs and replacement. TRRC regulations require periodic testing of all intrastate pipelines meeting certain size and location requirements. The Partnership’s costs relating to compliance with the required testing under the TRRC regulations were approximately $0.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 and $1.9 million in 2004 and the Partnership expects the costs for compliance with TRRC and DOT regulations to be $2.4 million in the aggregate during 2006 and 2007. If the Partnership’s pipelines fail to meet the safety standards mandated by the TRRC or the DOT regulations, then it may be required to repair or replace sections of such pipelines, the cost of which cannot be estimated at this time. The Partnership’s business involves hazardous substances and may be adversely affected by environmental regulation. Many of the operations and activities of the Partnership’s gathering systems, plants and other facilities, including the natural gas and processing liquids business in South Louisiana recently acquired from El Paso, are subject to significant federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations impose obligations related to air emissions and discharge of pollutants from the Partnership’s facilities and the cleanup of hazardous substances and other wastes that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by the Partnership or locations to which it has sent wastes for treatment or disposal. Various governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with these regulations and the permits issued under them, and violators are subject to administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, injunctions or both. Strict, joint and several liability may be incurred under these laws and regulations for the remediation of contaminated areas. Private parties, including the owners of properties through which the Partnership’s gathering systems pass, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. There is inherent risk of the incurrence of significant environmental costs and liabilities in the Partnership’s business due to its handling of natural gas and other petroleum products, air emissions related to its operations, historical industry operations, waste disposal practices and the prior use of natural gas flow meters containing mercury. In addition, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase the Partnership’s compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. The Partnership may incur material environmental costs and liabilities. Furthermore, the Partnership’s insurance may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against the Partnership. The Partnership’s business may be adversely affected by increased costs due to stricter pollution control requirements or liabilities resulting from non-compliance with required operating or other regulatory permits. New environmental regulations might adversely affect the Partnership’s products and activities, including processing, storage and transportation, as well as waste management and air emissions. Federal and state agencies could also impose additional safety requirements, any of which could affect the Partnership’s profitability. The Partnership’s use of derivative financial instruments has in the past and could in the future result in financial losses or reduce its income. The Partnership uses over-the-counter price and basis swaps with other natural gas merchants and financial institutions, and it uses futures and option contracts traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Use of these instruments is intended to reduce the Partnership’s exposure to short-term volatility in commodity prices. The Partnership could incur financial losses or fail to recognize the full value of a market opportunity as a result of volatility in the market values of the underlying commodities or if one of its counterparties fails to perform under a contract. 24 Table of Contents Due to the Partnership’s lack of asset diversification, adverse developments in its gathering, transmission, treating, processing and producer services businesses would materially impact its financial condition. The Partnership relies exclusively on the revenues generated from its gathering, transmission, treating, processing and producer services businesses, and as a result its financial condition depends upon prices of, and continued demand for, natural gas and NGLs. Due to the Partnership’s lack of asset diversification, an adverse development in one of these businesses would have a significantly greater impact on its financial condition and results of operations than if it maintained more diverse assets. The Partnership’s success depends on key members of its management, the loss or replacement of whom could disrupt its business operations. The Partnership depends on the continued employment and performance of the officers of Crosstex Energy GP, LLC and key operational personnel. Crosstex Energy GP, LLC has entered into employment agreements with each of its executive officers. If any of these officers or other key personnel resign or become unable to continue in their present roles and are not adequately replaced, the Partnership’s business operations could be materially adversely affected. The Partnership does not maintain any “key man” life insurance for any officers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We do not have any unresolved staff comments. 