Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors and all other information contained in this report should be considered carefully when evaluating us. These risk factors could affect our actual results. Other risks and uncertainties, in addition to those that are described below, may also impair our business operations. If any of the 25 Table of Contents following risks occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be affected materially and adversely. In that case, we may be unable to pay dividends to our shareholders and the trading price of our common share could decline. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other detailed information concerning us set forth in our accompanying financial statements and notes and contained in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included herein. Our cash flow consists almost exclusively of distributions from Crosstex Energy, L.P. Our only cash-generating assets are our partnership interests in Crosstex Energy, L.P. Our cash flow is therefore completely dependent upon the ability of the Partnership to make distributions to its partners. The amount of cash that the Partnership can distribute to its partners, including us, each quarter principally depends upon the amount of cash it generates from its operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: •the amount of natural gas transported in its gathering and transmission pipelines; •the level of the Partnership's processing operations; •the fees the Partnership charges and the margins it realizes for its services; •the prices of, levels of production of and demand for oil and natural gas; •the volume of natural gas the Partnership gathers, compresses, processes, transports and sells, the volume of NGLs the Partnership processes or fractionates and sells, the volume of crude oil the Partnership handles at its crude terminals, the volume of crude oil the Partnership gathers, transports, purchases and sells and the volumes of brine the Partnership disposes; •the relationship between natural gas and NGL prices; and •its level of operating costs. In addition, the actual amount of cash the Partnership will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond its control, including: •the level of capital expenditures the Partnership makes; •the cost of acquisitions, if any; •its debt service requirements; •fluctuations in its working capital needs; •its ability to make working capital borrowings under its bank credit facility to pay distributions; •prevailing economic conditions; and •the amount of cash reserves established by the general partner in its sole discretion for the proper conduct of its business. Because of these factors, the Partnership may not be able, or may not have sufficient available cash to pay distributions to unitholders each quarter. Furthermore, you should also be aware that the amount of cash the Partnership has available for distribution depends primarily upon its cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves and working capital borrowings, and is not solely a function of profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, the Partnership may make cash distributions during periods when it records losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when it records net income. 26 Table of Contents We are largely prohibited from engaging in activities that compete with the Partnership. Our primary business objective is to increase our cash available for dividends to our stockholders by assisting the Partnership in executing its business strategy. So long as we own the general partner of the Partnership, we are prohibited by an omnibus agreement with the Partnership from engaging in the business of gathering, transmitting, treating, processing, storing and marketing natural gas and crude oil and transporting, fractionating, storing and marketing NGLs, except to the extent that the Partnership, with the concurrence of its independent directors comprising its conflicts committee, elects not to engage in a particular acquisition or expansion opportunity. This exception for competitive activities is relatively limited. Although we are permitted to pursue certain opportunities under the omnibus agreement, such as competitive opportunities that the Partnership declines to pursue or permitted activities that are not in competition with the Partnership, the provisions of the omnibus agreement may, in the future, limit activities that we would otherwise pursue. In our corporate charter, we have renounced business opportunities that may be pursued by the Partnership or by certain stockholders. In our restated charter and in accordance with Delaware law, we have renounced any interest or expectancy we may have in, or in being offered an opportunity to participate in, any business opportunities, including any opportunities within those classes of opportunity currently pursued by the Partnership, presented to: •persons who are officers or directors of the company or who, on October 1, 2003, were, and at the time of presentation are, stockholders of the company (or to persons who are affiliates or associates of such officers, directors or stockholders), if the company is prohibited from participating in such opportunities by the omnibus agreement; or •any investment fund sponsored or managed by Yorktown Partners LLC, including any fund still to be formed, or to any of our directors who is an affiliate or designate of these entities. As a result of this renunciation, these officers, directors and stockholders should not be deemed to be breaching any fiduciary duty to us if they or their affiliates or associates pursue opportunities presented as described above. Although we control the Partnership, the general partner owes fiduciary duties to the Partnership and the unitholders. Conflicts of interest exist and may arise in the future as a result of the relationship between us and our affiliates, including the general partner, on the one hand, and the Partnership and its limited partners, on the other hand. The directors and officers of Crosstex Energy GP, LLC have fiduciary duties to manage the general partner in a manner beneficial to us, its owner. At the same time, the general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage the Partnership in a manner beneficial to the Partnership and its limited partners. The board of directors of Crosstex Energy GP, LLC will resolve any such conflict and has broad latitude to consider the interests of all parties to the conflict. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our best interest or that of our stockholders. For example, conflicts of interest may arise in the following situations: •the allocation of shared overhead expenses to the Partnership and us; •the interpretation and enforcement of contractual obligations between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and the Partnership, on the other hand, including obligations under the omnibus agreement; •the determination of the amount of cash to be distributed to the Partnership's partners and the amount of cash to be reserved for the future conduct of the Partnership's business; 27 Table of Contents •the determination whether to make borrowings under the capital facility to pay distributions to partners; and •any decision we make in the future to engage in activities in competition with the Partnership as permitted under our omnibus agreement with the Partnership. If the general partner is not fully reimbursed or indemnified for obligations and liabilities it incurs in managing the business and affairs of the Partnership, its value, and therefore the value of our common stock, could decline. The general partner may make expenditures on behalf of the Partnership for which it will seek reimbursement from the Partnership. In addition, under Delaware partnership law, the general partner, in its capacity as the general partner of the Partnership, has unlimited liability for the obligations of the Partnership, such as its debts and environmental liabilities, except for those contractual obligations of the Partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. To the extent the general partner incurs obligations on behalf of the Partnership, it is entitled to be reimbursed or indemnified by the Partnership. In the event that the Partnership is unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify the general partner, the general partner may be unable to satisfy these liabilities or obligations, which would reduce its value and therefore the value of our common stock. Risks Inherent in the Partnership's Business The Partnership's profitability is dependent upon prices and market demand for oil, condensate, natural gas and NGLs, which are beyond its control and have been volatile. The Partnership is subject to significant risks due to fluctuations in commodity prices. The Partnership is directly exposed to these risks primarily in the gas processing component of its business. For the year ended December 31, 2012 approximately 7.5% of its total gross operating margin was generated under percent of liquids contracts. Under these contracts the Partnership receives a fee in the form of a percentage of the liquids recovered and the producer bears all the cost of the natural gas shrink. Accordingly, the Partnership's revenues under these contracts are directly impacted by the market price of NGLs. The Partnership also realizes processing gross operating margins under processing margin (margin) contracts. For the year ended December 31, 2012 approximately 9.6% of the Partnership's total gross operating margin was generated under processing margin contracts. The Partnership has a number of processing margin contracts with the Partnership's Plaquemine, Gibson, Eunice, Blue Water and Pelican processing plants. Under this type of contract, the Partnership pays the producer for the full amount of inlet gas to the plant, and it makes a margin based on the difference between the value of liquids recovered from the processed natural gas as compared to the value of the natural gas volumes lost ("shrink") and the cost of fuel used in processing. The shrink and fuel losses are referred to as plant thermal reduction or PTR. The Partnership's margins from these contracts can be greatly reduced or eliminated during periods of high natural gas prices relative to liquids prices. The Partnership is also indirectly exposed to commodity prices due to the negative impacts on production and the development of production of oil, condensate, natural gas and NGLs connected to or near its assets and on its margins for transportation between certain market centers. Low prices for these products will reduce the demand for the Partnership's services and volumes on its systems. In the past, the prices of oil, natural gas and NGLs have been extremely volatile, and the Partnership expects this volatility to continue. For example, prices of natural gas and NGLs in 2012 were below the market prices realized throughout most of 2011 while prices for oil were relatively consistent with 2011 market prices. Crude oil prices (based on the NYMEX futures daily close prices for the prompt month) in 2012 ranged from a high of $109.77 per Bbl in February 2012 to a low of 28 Table of Contents $77.69 per Bbl in June 2012. Weighted average NGL prices in 2012 (based on the Oil Price Information Service (OPIS) Napoleonville daily average spot liquids prices) ranged from a high of $1.36 per gallon in January 2012 to a low of $0.79 per gallon in June 2012. Natural gas prices (based on Gas Daily Henry Hub closing prices) during 2012 ranged from a low of $1.83 per MMBtu in April 2012 to a high of $3.77 per MMBtu in November 2012. The markets and prices for oil, condensate, natural gas and NGLs depend upon factors beyond the Partnership's control. These factors include the supply and demand for oil, condensate, natural gas and NGLs, which fluctuate with changes in market and economic conditions and other factors, including: •the impact of weather on the demand for oil and natural gas; •the level of domestic oil, condensate and natural gas production; •technology, including improved production techniques (particularly with respect to shale development); •the level of domestic industrial and manufacturing activity; •the availability of imported oil, natural gas and NGLs; •international demand for oil and NGLs; •actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations; •the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems; •the availability of downstream NGL fractionation facilities; •the availability and marketing of competitive fuels; •the impact of energy conservation efforts; and •the extent of governmental regulation and taxation, including the regulation of "greenhouse gases." Changes in commodity prices may also indirectly impact the Partnership's profitability by influencing drilling activity and well operations, and thus the volume of gas, crude oil and condensate it gathers and processes. The volatility in commodity prices may cause the Partnership's gross operating margin and cash flows to vary widely from period to period. The Partnership's hedging strategies may not be sufficient to offset price volatility risk and, in any event, do not cover all of its throughput volumes. Moreover, hedges are subject to inherent risks, which we describe in "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk." The Partnership's use of derivative financial instruments does not eliminate its exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices and interest rates and has in the past and could in the future result in financial losses or reduced income. For a discussion of the Partnership's risk management activities, please read "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk." The Partnership's substantial indebtedness could limit its flexibility and adversely affect its financial health. The Partnership has a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2012, the Partnership had approximately $1.04 billion of indebtedness outstanding primarily comprised of $725.0 million (including $9.7 million of original issue discount) of senior unsecured notes due in 2018 and $250.0 million of senior unsecured notes due in 2022. As of December 31, 2012, there was $71.0 million of borrowing and $62.2 million in outstanding letters of credit under the bank credit facility leaving approximately $501.8 million available for future borrowings and letters of credit based on a borrowing capacity of $635.0 million. However, the financial covenants in the amended credit facility limit the amount of funds that the Partnership can borrow. As of December 31, 2012, based on 29 Table of Contents the financial covenants in the amended credit facility, the Partnership could borrow approximately $334.6 million of additional funds. The Partnership's substantial indebtedness could limit its flexibility and adversely affect its financial health. For example, it could: •make the Partnership more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; •require the Partnership to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on its indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of its cash flow for operations and other purposes; •limit the Partnership's flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in which it operates; and •place the Partnership at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that may have proportionately less indebtedness. In addition, the Partnership's ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance its obligations depends on its successful financial and operating performance. The Partnership cannot assure you that its operating performance will generate sufficient cash flow or that its capital resources will be sufficient for payment of its debt obligations in the future. The Partnership's financial and operating performance, cash flow and capital resources depend upon prevailing economic conditions and certain financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond its control. If the Partnership's cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund its debt service obligations, the Partnership may be forced to sell material assets or operations, obtain additional capital or restructure its debt. In the event that the Partnership is required to dispose of material assets or operations or restructure its debt to meet its debt service and other obligations, there cannot be any assurance as to the terms of any such transaction or how quickly any such transaction could be completed, if at all. The Partnership may not be able to access new capital to fund its acquisition and growth strategies which could impair its ability to fund future capital needs and to grow. Any limitations on the Partnership's access to capital will impair its ability to execute its growth strategy, complete future acquisitions or future construction projects or other capital expenditures, take advantage of other business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Partnership's revenues and results of operations. In addition, if the cost of capital becomes too expensive, its ability to develop or acquire strategic and accretive assets will be limited. Further, the Partnership's customers may increase collateral requirements from it, including letters of credit which reduce available borrowing capacity, or reduce the business they transact with the Partnership to reduce their credit exposure . Due to the Partnership's lack of asset diversification, adverse developments in its gathering, transmission, processing, crude oil, condensate, and NGL services businesses would materially impact its financial condition. The Partnership relies exclusively on the revenues generated from its gathering, transmission, processing, crude oil and condensate and NGL services businesses and as a result its financial condition depends upon prices of, and continued demand for, natural gas, NGLs and crude oil. Due to its lack of asset diversification, an adverse development in one of these businesses would have a significantly greater impact on its financial condition and results of operations than if the Partnership maintained more diverse assets. 30 Table of Contents The Partnership may not be successful in balancing its purchases and sales. The Partnership is a party to certain long-term gas sales commitments that it satisfies through supplies purchased under long-term gas purchase agreements. When the Partnership enters into those arrangements, its sales obligations generally match its purchase obligations. However, over time the supplies that the Partnership has under contract may decline due to reduced drilling or other causes and it may be required to satisfy the sales obligations by buying additional gas at prices that may exceed the prices received under the sales commitments. In addition, a producer could fail to deliver contracted volumes or deliver in excess of contracted volumes, or a consumer could purchase more or less than contracted volumes. Any of these actions could cause the Partnership's purchases and sales not to be balanced. If the Partnership's purchases and sales are not balanced, it will face increased exposure to commodity price risks and could have increased volatility in its operating income. The Partnership has made commitments to purchase natural gas in production areas based on production-area indices and to sell the natural gas into market areas based on market-area indices, pay the costs to transport the natural gas between the two points and capture the difference between the indices as margin. Changes in the index prices relative to each other (also referred to as basis spread) can significantly affect the Partnership's margins or even result in losses. For example, the Partnership is a party to one contract with a term to 2019 to supply approximately 150,000 MMBtu/d of gas. The Partnership buys gas for this contract on several different production-area indices on its NTP and sells the gas into a different market area index. For the year ended December 31, 2012, the Partnership has recorded a loss of approximately $17.5 million on this contract, and the Partnership currently expects that it will record a loss of approximately $20.0 million to $24.0 million on this contract in 2013. Reduced supplies and narrower basis spreads in recent periods have increased the losses on this contract, and greater losses on this contract could occur in future periods if these conditions persist or become worse. For additional information on this contract, please see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview." The Partnership must continually compete for crude oil, condensate and natural gas supplies, and any decrease in supplies of such commodities could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. The Partnership's gathering systems are connected to wells and its crude oil and condensate assets service wells from which production will naturally decline over time, which means that cash flows associated with these assets will likely also decline over time. In order to maintain or increase throughput levels in the Partnership's natural gas gathering systems and asset utilization rates at its processing plants and to fulfill its current sales commitments, the Partnership must continually contract for new natural gas supplies. The Partnership may not be able to obtain additional contracts for crude oil, condensate and natural gas supplies. The primary factors affecting the Partnership's ability to connect new wells to its gathering facilities include its success in contracting for existing supplies that are not committed to other systems and the level of drilling activity near its gathering systems. If the Partnership is unable to maintain or increase the volumes on its systems by accessing new supplies to offset the natural decline in reserves, its business and financial results could be materially, adversely affected. In addition, the Partnership's future growth will depend in part upon whether it can contract for additional supplies at a greater rate than the rate of natural decline in its current supplies. Fluctuations in energy prices can greatly affect production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil, condensate and natural gas reserves. Natural gas prices were relatively low in 2012 and continue to be depressed. Prolonged periods of low natural gas prices may put downward pressure on future drilling activity which may result in lower volumes. Tax policy changes or additional regulatory restrictions on development could also have a negative impact on drilling activity, reducing supplies of natural gas available to the Partnership's systems. Additional governmental regulation of, or delays in issuance of permits for, the offshore exploration and production industry may negatively 31 Table of Contents impact current and future volumes from offshore pipelines supplying its processing plants. The Partnership has no control over producers and depends on them to maintain sufficient levels of drilling activity. A material decrease in production or in the level of drilling activity in its principal geographic areas for a prolonged period, as a result of depressed commodity prices or otherwise, likely would have a material adverse effect on the Partnership's results of operations and financial position. A substantial portion of the Partnership's assets is connected or dependent on hydrocarbon reserves that will decline over time, and the cash flows associated with those assets will decline accordingly. A substantial portion of the Partnership's assets, including its gathering systems, is dedicated to certain hydrocarbon reserves and wells for which the production will naturally decline over time. Accordingly, the Partnership's cash flows associated with these assets will also decline. If the Partnership is unable to access new supplies of hydrocarbons either by connecting additional reserves to its existing assets or by constructing or acquiring new assets that have access to additional hydrocarbon reserves, the Partnership's cash flows may decline. Growing the Partnership's business by constructing new pipelines and processing facilities subjects it to construction risks, risks that oil, natural gas or NGL supplies will not be available upon completion of the facilities and risks of construction delay and additional costs due to obtaining rights-of-way permits and complying with federal, state and local laws. One of the ways the Partnership intends to grow its business is through the construction of additions to its existing gathering systems and construction of new pipelines and gathering and processing facilities. The construction of pipelines and gathering and processing and fractionation facilities requires the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, which may exceed the Partnership's expectations. Generally, the Partnership may have only limited natural gas or NGL supplies committed to these facilities prior to their construction. Moreover, it may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which anticipated production growth does not materialize. The Partnership may also rely on estimates of proved reserves in its decision to construct new pipelines and facilities, which may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough natural gas and NGLs to achieve its expected investment return, which could adversely affect the Partnership's results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the Partnership faces the risks of construction delay and additional costs due to obtaining rights-of-way, federal permits, state permits and local permits and complying with federal or state laws and city ordinances. The Partnership's failure to effectively execute its major development projects could result in significant delays and/or cost over-runs, limitations on its growth and negative effects on its operating results, liquidity and financial position. The Partnership is engaged in the planning and construction of several major development projects, some of which will take a number of months before commercial operation, such as Phase I and Phase II of the Partnership's Cajun-Sibon pipeline expansions. These projects are complex and subject to a number of factors beyond the Partnership's control, including delays from third-party landowners, the permitting process, unavailability of materials, labor disruptions, environmental hazards, financing, accidents, weather and other factors. Any delay in the completion of these projects could have a material adverse effect on the Partnership's business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Estimating the timing and expenditures related to these development projects is very complex and subject to variables that can significantly increase expected costs. Should the actual costs of these projects exceed the Partnership's estimates, its liquidity and capital position could be adversely affected. This level of development activity requires significant effort from the Partnership's management and technical personnel and places additional requirements on its financial resources and 32 Table of Contents internal financial controls. The Partnership may not have the ability to attract and/or retain the necessary number of personnel with the skills required to bring complicated projects to successful conclusions. The Partnership is vulnerable to operational, regulatory and other risks due to its concentration of assets in south Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico, including the effects of adverse weather conditions such as hurricanes. The Partnership's operations and revenues will be significantly impacted by conditions in south Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico because it has a significant portion of its assets located in these two areas. The Partnership's concentration of activity in Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico makes it more vulnerable than many of its competitors to the risks associated with these areas, including: •adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms; •delays or decreases in production, the availability of equipment, facilities or services; and •changes in the regulatory environment. Because a significant portion of the Partnership's operations could experience the same condition at the same time, these conditions could have a relatively greater impact on its results of operations than they might have on other midstream companies that have operations in more diversified geographic areas. The Partnership's use of derivative financial instruments does not eliminate its exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices and interest rates and has in the past and could in the future result in financial losses or reduce its income. The Partnership's operations expose it to fluctuations in commodity prices, and its credit facility exposes the Partnership to fluctuations in interest rates. The Partnership uses over-the-counter price and basis swaps with other natural gas merchants and financial institutions. Use of these instruments is intended to reduce the Partnership's exposure to short-term volatility in commodity prices. As of December 31, 2012, the Partnership has hedged only portions of its expected exposures to commodity price risk. In addition, to the extent the Partnership hedges its commodity price risk using swap instruments, the Partnership will forego the benefits of favorable changes in commodity prices. Although the Partnership does not currently have any financial instruments to eliminate its exposure to interest rate fluctuations, the Partnership may use financial instruments in the future to offset its exposure to interest rate fluctuations. Even though monitored by management, the Partnership's hedging activities may fail to protect it and could reduce its earnings and cash flow. The Partnership's hedging activity may be ineffective or adversely affect cash flow and earnings because, among other factors: •hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of volatile prices; •the Partnership's counterparty in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay or otherwise fail to perform; and •available hedges may not correspond directly with the risks against which the Partnership seeks protection. For example: •the duration of a hedge may not match the duration of the risk against which the Partnership seeks protection; •variations in the index used to price a commodity hedge may not adequately correlate with variations in the index used to sell the physical commodity (known as basis risk); and 33 Table of Contents •the Partnership may not produce or process sufficient volumes to cover swap arrangements it enters into for a given period. If its actual volumes are lower than the volumes it estimated when entering into a swap for the period, the Partnership might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of its derivative obligation without the benefit of cash flow from its sale or purchase of the underlying physical commodity, which could adversely affect liquidity. The Partnership's financial statements may reflect gains or losses arising from exposure to commodity prices for which it is unable to enter into fully effective hedges. In addition, the standards for cash flow hedge accounting are rigorous. Even when the Partnership engages in hedging transactions that are effective economically, these transactions may not be considered effective cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. The Partnership's earnings could be subject to increased volatility to the extent its derivatives do not continue to qualify as cash flow hedges and, if the Partnership assumes derivatives as part of an acquisition, to the extent the Partnership cannot obtain or chooses not to seek cash flow hedge accounting for the derivatives it assumes. Please read "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk" for a summary of the Partnership's hedging activities. A reduction in demand for NGL products by the petrochemical, refining or other industries or by the fuel markets could materially adversely affect the Partnership's results of operations and financial condition. The NGL products the Partnership produces have a variety of applications, including as heating fuels, petrochemical feedstocks and refining blend stocks. A reduction in demand for NGL products, whether because of general or industry specific economic conditions, new government regulations, global competition, reduced demand by consumers for products made with NGL products (for example, reduced petrochemical demand observed due to lower activity in the automobile and construction industries), increased competition from petroleum-based feedstocks due to pricing differences, mild winter weather for some NGL applications or other reasons, could result in a decline in the volume of NGL products the Partnership handles or reduce the fees the Partnership charges for its services. The Partnership's NGL products and the demand for these products are affected as follows: •Ethane. Ethane is typically supplied as purity ethane or as part of ethane-propane mix. Ethane is primarily used in the petrochemical industry as feedstock for ethylene, one of the basic building blocks for a wide range of plastics and other chemical products. Although ethane is typically extracted as part of the mixed NGL stream at gas processing plants, if natural gas prices increase significantly in relation to NGL product prices or if the demand for ethylene falls, it may be more profitable for natural gas processors to leave the ethane in the natural gas stream thereby reducing the volume of NGLs delivered for fractionation and marketing. •Propane. Propane is used as a petrochemical feedstock in the production of ethylene and propylene, as a heating, engine and industrial fuel, and in agricultural applications such as crop drying. Changes in demand for ethylene and propylene could adversely affect demand for propane. The demand for propane as a heating fuel is significantly affected by weather conditions. The volume of propane sold is at its highest during the six-month peak heating season of October through March. Demand for the Partnership's propane may be reduced during periods of warmer-than-normal weather. •Normal Butane. Normal butane is used in the production of isobutane, as a refined product blending component, as a fuel gas, and in the production of ethylene and propylene. Changes in the composition of refined products resulting from governmental regulation, changes in feedstocks, products and economics, demand for heating fuel and for ethylene and propylene could adversely affect demand for normal butane. 34 Table of Contents •Isobutane. Isobutane is predominantly used in refineries to produce alkylates to enhance octane levels. Accordingly, any action that reduces demand for motor gasoline or demand for isobutane to produce alkylates for octane enhancement might reduce demand for isobutane. •Natural Gasoline. Natural gasoline is used as a blending component for certain refined products and as a feedstock used in the production of ethylene and propylene. Changes in the mandated composition resulting from governmental regulation of motor gasoline and in demand for ethylene and propylene could adversely affect demand for natural gasoline. NGLs and products produced from NGLs also compete with global markets. Any reduced demand for ethane, propane, normal butane, isobutane or natural gasoline in the markets the Partnership accesses for any of the reasons stated above could adversely affect demand for the services the Partnership provides as well as NGL prices, which would negatively impact its results of operations and financial condition. If the Partnership does not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms or efficiently and effectively integrate the acquired assets with its asset base, its future growth will be limited. The Partnership's ability to grow depends, in part, on its ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in cash generated from operations on a per unit basis. If the Partnership is unable to make accretive acquisitions either because it is (1) unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with them, (2) unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms or (3) outbid by competitors, then its future growth and its ability to increase distributions will be limited. From time to time, the Partnership may evaluate and seek to acquire assets or businesses that it believes complement its existing business and related assets. The Partnership may acquire assets or businesses that it plans to use in a manner materially different from their prior owner's use. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including: •the inability to integrate the operations of recently acquired businesses or assets, especially if the assets acquired are in a new business segment or geographic area; •the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; •the failure to realize expected volumes, revenues, profitability or growth; •the failure to realize any expected synergies and cost savings; •the coordination of geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; •the assumption of unknown liabilities; •the loss of customers or key employees from the acquired businesses; •a significant increase in the Partnership's indebtedness; and •potential environmental or regulatory liabilities and title problems. Management's assessment of these risks is inexact and may not reveal or resolve all existing or potential problems associated with an acquisition. Realization of any of these risks could adversely affect the Partnership's operations and cash flows. If the Partnership consummates any future acquisition, its capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and you will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that the Partnership will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources. 35 Table of Contents The terms of the Partnership's credit facility and indentures may restrict its current and future operations, particularly its ability to respond to changes in business or to take certain actions. The Partnership's credit agreement and the indentures governing its senior notes contain, and any future indebtedness the Partnership incurs will likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions, including restrictions on its ability to engage in acts that may be in its best long-term interest. These agreements include covenants that, among other things, restrict the Partnership's ability to: •incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; •pay dividends on its equity securities or redeem, repurchase or retire its equity securities or subordinated indebtedness; •make investments; •pay dividends or other distributions by its subsidiaries; •engage in transactions with its affiliates; •sell assets, including equity securities of its subsidiaries; •consolidate or merge; •incur liens; •prepay, redeem and repurchase certain debt; •make certain acquisitions; •transfer assets; •enter into sale and lease back transactions; •amend its partnership agreement; •make certain capital expenditures; and •change business activities it conducts. In addition, the Partnership's credit facility requires it to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios and other financial condition tests. Its ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond its control, and it cannot assure you that it will meet those ratios and tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in an event of default under the Partnership's credit facility and indentures. Upon the occurrence of such an event of default, all amounts outstanding under the applicable debt agreements could be declared to be immediately due and payable and all applicable commitments to extend further credit could be terminated. If the Partnership is unable to repay the accelerated debt under its senior secured credit facility, the lenders under its senior secured credit facility could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. The Partnership has pledged substantially all of its assets as collateral under its senior secured credit facility. If indebtedness under its senior secured credit facility or indentures is accelerated, there can be no assurance that the Partnership will have sufficient assets to repay the indebtedness. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in these debt agreements and any future financing agreements may adversely affect the Partnership's ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. 36 Table of Contents The Partnership does not own most of the land on which its pipelines and compression facilities are located, which could disrupt its operations. The Partnership does not own most of the land on which its pipelines and compression facilities are located, and it is therefore subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and/or increased costs to retain necessary land use if it does not have valid rights-of-way or leases or if such rights-of-way or leases lapse or terminate. The Partnership sometimes obtains the rights to land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. The Partnership's loss of these rights, through its inability to renew right-of-way contracts, leases or otherwise, could cause it to cease operations on the affected land, increase costs related to continuing operations elsewhere and reduce its revenue. The Partnership expects to encounter significant competition in any new geographic areas into which the Partnership seeks to expand and its ability to enter such markets may be limited. If the Partnership expands its operations into new geographic areas, the Partnership expects to encounter significant competition for natural gas and crude oil supplies and markets. Competitors in these new markets will include companies larger than the Partnership, which have both lower cost of capital and greater geographic coverage, as well as smaller companies, which have lower total cost structures. As a result, it may not be able to successfully develop acquired assets and markets located in new geographic areas and the Partnership's results of operations could be adversely affected. With its acquisition of Clearfield, the Partnership entered geographic regions in which the Partnership did not previously operate, including Kentucky, Ohio and West Virginia. In order to operate effectively in these new regions, the Partnership needs to understand the local market and regulatory environment and identify and retain certain employees from Clearfield who are familiar with these markets. If the Partnership is not successful in retaining these employees or operating in these new geographic areas, the Partnership may not be able to compete effectively in the new markets or fully realize the expected benefits of the Clearfield acquisition. The Partnership faces new risks as it entered into new lines of business as a result of the Clearfield acquisition. As a result of the Clearfield acquisition, the Partnership entered new lines of business including the transportation of crude oil and condensate by rail cars, barge facilities and trucks and the disposal and transportation of brine. Prior to the Clearfield acquisition, the Partnership did not have experience in these lines of business and the success of this acquisition will be subject to all of the uncertainties regarding the maintenance and development of these new lines of business. These activities involve a number of uncertainties, risks and expenses, including the investment of significant time and resources, and the Partnership can give no assurance that its efforts will be successful. The Partnership may not be able to retain existing customers or acquire new customers, which would reduce its revenues and limit its future profitability. The renewal or replacement of existing contracts with the Partnership's customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows depends on a number of factors beyond its control, including competition from other midstream service provider, and the price of, and demand for, crude oil, condensate, NGLs and natural gas in the markets the Partnership serves. The inability of the Partnership's management to renew or replace its current contracts as they expire and to respond appropriately to changing market conditions could have a negative effect on its profitability. 37 Table of Contents In particular, the Partnership's ability to renew or replace its existing contracts with industrial end-users and utilities impacts its profitability. For the year ended December 31, 2012, approximately 56% of its sales of gas that was transported using its physical facilities were to industrial end-users and utilities. As a consequence of the increase in competition in the industry and volatility of natural gas prices, end-users and utilities may be reluctant to enter into long-term purchase contracts. Many end-users purchase natural gas from more than one natural gas company and have the ability to change providers at any time. Some of these end-users also have the ability to switch between gas and alternate fuels in response to relative price fluctuations in the market. Because there are numerous companies of greatly varying size and financial capacity that compete with the Partnership in the marketing of natural gas, the Partnership often competes in the end-user and utilities markets primarily on the basis of price. The Partnership depends on certain key customers, and the loss of any of its key customers could adversely affect its financial results. The Partnership derives a significant portion of its revenues from contracts with key customers. To the extent that these and other customers may reduce volumes of natural gas purchased or transported under existing contracts, the Partnership would be adversely affected unless it was able to make comparably profitable arrangements with other customers. Certain agreements with key customers provide for minimum volumes of natural gas or natural gas services that require the customer to transport, process or purchase until the expiration of the term of the applicable agreement, subject to certain force majeure provisions. Customers may default on their obligations to transport, process or purchase the minimum volumes of natural gas or natural gas services required under the applicable agreements. The Partnership is exposed to the credit risk of its customers and counterparties, and a general increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by its customers could have an adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Risks of nonpayment and nonperformance by the Partnership's customers are a major concern in its business. The Partnership is subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by its customers and other counterparties, such as its lenders and hedging counterparties. Any increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by its customers could adversely affect its results of operations and reduce its ability to make distributions to its unitholders. Federal, state or local regulatory measures could adversely affect the Partnership's business. The Partnership's natural gas gathering and processing activities generally are exempt from FERC regulation under the Natural Gas Act. However, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of substantial, on-going litigation, so the classification and regulation of the Partnership's gathering facilities are subject to change based on future determinations by FERC and the courts. Natural gas gathering may receive greater regulatory scrutiny at both the state and federal levels since FERC has less extensively regulated the gathering activities of interstate pipeline transmission companies and a number of such companies have transferred gathering facilities to unregulated affiliates. The Partnership's gathering operations also may be or become subject to safety and operational regulations relating to the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of gathering facilities. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to these matters are considered or adopted from time to time. The Partnership cannot predict what effect, if any, such changes might have on its operations, but the industry could be required to incur additional capital expenditures and increased costs depending on future legislative and regulatory changes. The rates, terms and conditions of service under which the Partnership transports natural gas in its pipeline systems in interstate commerce are subject to FERC regulation under Section 311 of the 38 Table of Contents Natural Gas Policy Act. Under these regulations, the Partnership is required to justify its rates for interstate transportation service on a cost-of-service basis every five years. The Partnership's intrastate natural gas pipeline operations are subject to regulation by various agencies of the states in which they are located. Should FERC or any of these state agencies determine that its rates for Section 311 transportation service or intrastate transportation service should be lowered, its business could be adversely affected. In 2012, the Partnership acquired liquids transportation, storage and other assets in the Ohio River Valley, including certain assets providing common carrier interstate service subject to regulation by FERC under the ICA. Further, the Cajun-Sibon NGL pipeline is scheduled to be operational in mid-2013 and will operate as an interstate, common carrier NGL pipeline subject to FERC's jurisdiction under the ICA. The ICA permits interested persons to challenge proposed new or changed rates and authorizes FERC to suspend the effectiveness of such rates for up to seven months and investigate such rates. If, upon completion of an investigation, FERC finds that the new or changed rates are unlawful, it is authorized to require the pipeline to refund revenues collected in excess of the just and reasonable rates during the term of the investigation. FERC may also investigate, upon complaint or on its own motion, rates that are already in effect and may order a carrier to change its rates prospectively. Under certain circumstances, FERC could limit the Partnership's ability to set rates based on its costs or could order the Partnership to reduce its rates and could require the payment of reparations to complaining shippers for up to two years prior to the date of the complaint. FERC also has the authority to change the Partnership's terms and conditions of service if it determines that they are unjust and unreasonable or unduly discriminatory or preferential. As the Partnership acquires, constructs and operates new liquids assets and expands its liquids transportation business segment, the classification and regulation of its liquids transportation services are subject to ongoing assessment and change based on the services the Partnership provides and determinations by FERC and the courts. Such changes may subject additional services the Partnership provides to regulation by FERC. Other state and local regulations also affect the Partnership's business. The Partnership is subject to some ratable take and common purchaser statutes in the states where it operates. Ratable take statutes generally require gatherers to take, without undue discrimination, natural gas production that may be tendered to the gatherer for handling. Similarly, common purchaser statutes generally require gatherers to purchase without undue discrimination as to source of supply or producer. These statutes have the effect of restricting the Partnership's right as an owner of gathering facilities to decide with whom it contracts to purchase or transport natural gas. Federal law leaves any economic regulation of natural gas gathering to the states, and some of the states in which it operates have adopted complaint-based or other limited economic regulation of natural gas gathering activities. States in which the Partnership operates that have adopted some form of complaint-based regulation, like Texas, generally allow natural gas producers and shippers to file complaints with state regulators in an effort to resolve grievances relating to natural gas gathering access and rate discrimination. The states in which the Partnership conducts operations administer federal pipeline safety standards under the NGPA. These standards only apply to certain gathering lines based on the gathering line's operating pressure and proximity to people. Because of their pressure and location, substantial portions of the Partnership's gathering facilities are not regulated under that statute. The gathering line exemptions, however, may be restricted in the future, and they do not apply to our natural gas transmission pipelines. In response to recent pipeline accidents in other parts of the country, Congress and the Department of Transportation, or DOT, have passed or are considering heightened pipeline safety requirements, including gathering lines. 39 Table of Contents Compliance with pipeline integrity and other pipeline safety regulations issued by DOT or those issued by the Texas Railroad Commission, or TRRC, could result in substantial expenditures for testing, repairs and replacement. TRRC regulations require periodic testing of all intrastate pipelines meeting certain size and location requirements. The Partnership's costs relating to compliance with the required testing under the TRRC regulations were approximately at $1.4 million, $1.3 million, and $1.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The Partnership expects the costs for compliance with TRRC and DOT regulations to be approximately $2.0 million during 2013. If its pipelines fail to meet the safety standards mandated by the TRRC or the DOT regulations, then it may be required to repair or replace sections of such pipelines, the cost of which cannot be estimated at this time. As the Partnership's operations continue to expand into and around urban or more populated areas, such as the Barnett Shale, it may incur additional expenses to mitigate noise, odor and light that may be emitted in its operations and expenses related to the appearance of its facilities. Municipal and other local or state regulations are imposing various obligations including, among other things, regulating the location of its facilities, imposing limitations on the noise levels of its facilities and requiring certain other improvements that increase the cost of its facilities. The Partnership is also subject to claims by neighboring landowners for nuisance related to the construction and operation of its facilities, which could subject it to damages for declines in neighboring property values due to its construction and operation of facilities. The Partnership's business involves hazardous substances and may be adversely affected by environmental regulation. Many of the operations and activities of the Partnership's gathering systems, processing plants, fractionators, brine disposal operations and other facilities are subject to significant federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. The obligations imposed by these laws and regulations include obligations related to air emissions and discharge of pollutants from its facilities and the cleanup of hazardous substances and other wastes that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by the Partnership or locations to which the Partnership has sent wastes for treatment or disposal. Various governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, and violators are subject to administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, injunctions or both. Strict, joint and several liability may be incurred under these laws and regulations for the remediation of contaminated areas. Private parties, including the owners of properties near the Partnership's facilities or upon or through which its gathering systems traverse, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations for releases of contaminants or for personal injury or property damage. There is inherent risk of the incurrence of significant environmental costs and liabilities in the Partnership's business due to its handling of natural gas, crude oil and other petroleum substances, its brine disposal operations, air emissions related to its operations, historical industry operations, waste disposal practices and the prior use of natural gas flow meters containing mercury. For example, the Partnership operates brine disposal wells in Ohio and West Virginia and may gather brine from surrounding states. These wells are regulated under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA) as Class II wells and under state laws. State laws and regulations that govern these operations can be more stringent than the federal SDWA, such as the Ohio Department of Natural Resources rules which became effective October 1, 2012. These rules imposed new, more stringent environmentally responsible standards for the permitting and operating of brine disposal wells, including extensive review of geologic data and use of state of the art technology. They apply to new disposal wells and, as applicable, to existing wells. The Ohio Department of Natural Resources also imposes requirements on the transportation and disposal of brine. In addition, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations 40 Table of Contents or enforcement policies could significantly increase its compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. The Partnership may incur material environmental costs and liabilities. Furthermore, its insurance may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against it. The Partnership's business may be adversely affected by increased costs due to stricter pollution control requirements or liabilities resulting from non-compliance with required operating or other regulatory permits. New environmental laws or regulations, including, for example, legislation relating to the control of greenhouse gas emissions, or changes in existing environmental laws or regulations might adversely affect its products and activities, including processing, storage and transportation, as well as waste management and air emissions. Federal and state agencies could also impose additional safety requirements, any of which could affect the Partnership's profitability. Changes in laws or regulations could also limit its production or the operation of its assets or adversely affect its ability to comply with applicable legal requirements or the demand for crude oil, brine disposal services or natural gas, which could adversely affect its business and its profitability. Recently finalized rules under the Clean Air Act imposing more stringent requirements on the oil and gas industry could cause the Partnership's customers and the Partnership to incur increased capital expenditures and operating costs as well as reduce the demand for our services. On April 17, 2012, the EPA issued final rules under the Clean Air Act that became effective on October 15, 2012. Among other things, these rules require additional emissions controls for natural gas and NGLs production, including New Source Performance Standards to address emissions of sulfur dioxide and volatile organic compounds ("VOCs") and a separate set of emission standards to address hazardous air pollutants frequently associated with such production activities. The final regulations require, among other things, the reduction of VOC emissions from natural gas wells through the use of reduced emission completions or "green completions" on all hydraulically fractured wells constructed or refractured after January 1, 2015. Moreover, these rules establish specific requirements regarding emissions from compressors and controllers at natural gas gathering and boosting stations and processing plants together with dehydrators and storage tanks at natural gas processing plants, compressor stations and gathering and boosting stations. The rules also establish new requirements for leak detection and repair of leaks at natural gas processing plants that exceed 500 parts per million in concentration. These regulations could require a number of modifications to the Partnership's operations and its natural gas exploration and production suppliers' and customers' operations, including the installation of new equipment, which could result in significant costs, including increased capital expenditures and operating costs. The incurrence of such expenditures and costs by the Partnership's suppliers and customers could result in reduced production by those suppliers and customers and thus translate into reduced demand for the Partnership's services. The rules are subject to an ongoing legal challenge brought by various parties, including environmental groups and industry, and the EPA has indicated that it may revise the rules. Any such revisions could affect the Partnership's operations, as well as the operations of its suppliers and customers. The Partnership's business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. The Partnership's operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the gathering, compressing, processing and storage of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil, including: •damage to pipelines, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, floods, fires and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism; •inadvertent damage from construction and farm equipment; •leaks of natural gas, NGLs, crude oil and other hydrocarbons; and 41 Table of Contents •fires and explosions. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage and may result in curtailment or suspension of the Partnership's related operations. The Partnership is not fully insured against all risks incident to its business. In accordance with typical industry practice, the Partnership does not have business interruption insurance or any property insurance on any of its underground pipeline systems that would cover damage to the pipelines. The Partnership is not insured against all environmental accidents that might occur, other than those considered to be sudden and accidental. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, it could adversely affect the Partnership's operations and financial condition. The Partnership could experience increased severity or frequency of trucking accidents and other claims. Potential liability associated with accidents in the trucking industry is severe and occurrences are unpredictable. A material increase in the frequency or severity of accidents or workers' compensation claims or the unfavorable development of existing claims could be expected to materially adversely affect the Partnership's results of operations. In the event that accidents occur, the Partnership may be unable to obtain desired contractual indemnities, and its insurance may be inadequate in certain cases. The occurrence of an event not fully insured or indemnified against, or the failure or inability of a customer or insurer to meet its indemnification or insurance obligations, could result in substantial losses. Changes in trucking regulations may increase the Partnership's costs and negatively impact its results of operations. The Partnership's trucking services are subject to regulation as a motor carrier by the United States Department of Transportation and by various state agencies, whose regulations include certain permit requirements of state highway and safety authorities. These regulatory authorities exercise broad powers over the Partnership's trucking operations, generally governing such matters as the authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety, equipment testing and specifications and insurance requirements. There are additional regulations specifically relating to the trucking industry, including testing and specification of equipment and product handling requirements. The trucking industry is subject to possible regulatory and legislative changes that may impact the Partnership's operations and affect the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or by changing the demand for or the cost of providing trucking services. Some of these possible changes include increasingly stringent fuel emission limits, changes in the regulations that govern the amount of time a driver may drive or work in any specific period, limits on vehicle weight and size and other matters, including safety requirements. The adoption of derivatives legislation by the United States Congress and promulgation of related regulations could have an adverse effect on the Partnership's ability to hedge risks associated with its business. Comprehensive financial reform legislation was signed into law by the President on July 21, 2010. The legislation calls for the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the "CFTC") to regulate certain markets for over-the-counter ("OTC") derivative products. The CFTC has issued several new relevant regulations and other rulemakings are pending at the CFTC, the product of which would be rules that implement the mandates in the new legislation to cause significant portions of derivatives to be cleared through clearinghouses. The rules could also impose burdens on market participants to such an extent that liquidity in the bilateral OTC derivative market decreases substantially. The legislation and new regulations may also require counterparties to its derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to separate entities, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparties. The new legislation and any new regulations, including determinations with respect to 42 Table of Contents the applicability of margin requirements and other trading structures, could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts, materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks the Partnership encounters, reduce its ability to monetize or restructure its existing derivative contracts, and increase its exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If the Partnership reduces its use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, its results of operations may become more volatile and its cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect its ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures and to generate sufficient cash flow to pay quarterly distributions at current levels or at all. The Partnership's revenues could be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material, adverse effect on the Partnership, the Partnership's financial condition and its results of operations. Climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the natural gas and NGL services the Partnership provides. On December 15, 2009, the EPA published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases ("GHGs") present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings allowed the EPA to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations restricting emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. Since 2011, the EPA has required stationary sources that emit GHGs above regulatory and statutory thresholds to obtain a Prevention of Significant Deterioration permit. Moreover, on October 30, 2009, the EPA published a "Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases" final rule that established a comprehensive scheme requiring operators of stationary sources emitting more than established annual thresholds of GHGs to inventory and report their GHG emissions annually on a facility-by-facility basis. The Mandatory Reporting Rule was expanded by a rule promulgated on November 30, 2010 to include owners and operators of onshore oil and natural gas production, processing, transmission, storage and distribution facilities. Reporting emissions from such onshore activities is required on an annual basis. The first reports were due in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. Additionally, the EPA has proposed to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from certain electric generating units under the Clean Air Act's New Source Performance Standards ("NSPS") program. The EPA may propose to regulate additional source categories under the NSPS program in the future. In addition, both houses of Congress have actively considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, and almost half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring either major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and NGL fractionation plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances with the number of allowances available for purchase reduced each year until the overall GHG emission reduction goal is achieved. The adoption of legislation or regulations imposing reporting or permitting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, the Partnership's equipment and operations could require the Partnership to incur additional costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with its operations, could adversely affect its performance of operations in the absence of any permits that may be required to regulate emission of GHGs or could adversely affect demand for the natural gas the Partnership gathers, processes or otherwise handles in connection with its services. 43 Table of Contents The Partnership typically does not obtain independent evaluations of hydrocarbon reserves; therefore, volumes it services in the future could be less than it anticipates. The Partnership typically does not obtain independent evaluations of hydrocarbon reserves connected to its gathering systems or that the Partnership otherwise services due to the unwillingness of producers to provide reserve information as well as the cost of such evaluations. Accordingly, the Partnership does not have independent estimates of total reserves serviced by its assets or the anticipated life of such reserves. If the total reserves or estimated life of the reserves is less than it anticipates and it is unable to secure additional sources then the volumes transported on its gathering systems or that the Partnership otherwise services in the future could be less than anticipated. A decline in the volumes could have a material adverse effect on the Partnership's results of operations and financial condition. The Partnership's success depends on key members of its management, the loss or replacement of whom could disrupt its business operations. The Partnership depends on the continued employment and performance of the officers of its general partner and key operational personnel. The general partner has entered into employment agreements with each of its executive officers. If any of these officers or other key personnel resign or become unable to continue in their present roles and are not adequately replaced, the Partnership's business operations could be materially adversely affected. The Partnership does not maintain any "key man" life insurance for any officers. Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing could result in reductions or delays in natural gas production by the Partnership's customers, which could adversely impact its revenues. A portion of the Partnership's suppliers' and customers' natural gas production is developed from unconventional sources, such as deep gas shales, that require hydraulic fracturing as part of the completion process. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into the formation to stimulate gas production. Hydraulic fracturing activities are generally regulated by state oil and gas commissions; however, the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving diesel under the Safe Drinking Water Act and has released draft permitting guidance for hydraulic fracturing activities that use diesel in fracturing fluids in those states where EPA is the permitting authority. In addition, legislation has been proposed, but not passed that would provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic-fracturing process. State legislatures and agencies are also enacting legislation and promulgating rules to regulate hydraulic fracturing and require disclosure of hydraulic fracturing chemicals. There are certain governmental reviews either underway or being proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices, and a committee of the United States House of Representatives has conducted an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. In addition, the EPA is conducting a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater and has initiated plans to promulgate regulations controlling wastewater disposal associated with hydraulic fracturing and shale gas development. In addition to the EPA, other federal agencies are analyzing, or have been requested to review, a variety of environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing. These on-going or proposed studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, or other statutory and/or regulatory mechanisms. President Obama created the Interagency Working Group on Unconventional Natural Gas and Oil by Executive Order on April 13, 2012, which 44 Table of Contents is charged with coordinating and aligning federal agency research and scientific studies on unconventional natural gas and oil resources. The Partnership cannot predict whether any additional legislation or regulations will be enacted and, if so, what the provisions would be. If additional levels of regulation and permits were required through the adoption of new laws and regulations at the federal or state level, that could lead to delays, increased operating costs and process prohibitions for the Partnership's suppliers and customers that could reduce the volumes of natural gas that move through its gathering systems which could materially adversely affect its revenue and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We do not have any unresolved staff comments. 