Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors and all other information contained in this report should be considered carefully when evaluating us. These risk factors could affect our actual results. Other risks and uncertainties, in addition to those that are described below, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be affected materially and adversely. In that case, we may be unable to pay dividends to our shareholders and the trading price of our common shares could decline. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other detailed information concerning us set forth in our accompanying financial statements and notes and contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included herein. Our cash flow consists almost exclusively of distributions from Crosstex Energy, L.P. Our only cash-generating assets are our partnership interests in Crosstex Energy, L.P. Our cash flow is therefore completely dependent upon the ability of the Partnership to make distributions to its partners. Prior to 2009, we received quarterly distributions from the Partnership with the last distribution for the fourth quarter of 2008 received in February 2009. During 2009, the Partnership’s ability to distribute available cash was contractually restricted by the terms of its credit facility due to its high leverage ratios and it ceased making distributions. Although the Partnership’s new credit facility should not limit its ability to make distributions during 2010 and in the future, any decision to resume cash distributions on its units and the amount of any such distributions would consider maintaining sufficient cash flow in excess of the distribution to continue to move the Partnership towards lower leverage ratios. The Partnership has established a target over the next couple of years of achieving a ratio of total debt to Adjusted EBITDA of less than 4.0 to 1.0, and the Partnership does not currently expect to resume cash distributions on its outstanding units until it achieves such a ratio of less than 4.5 to 1.0 (pro forma for any distribution). The Partnership will also consider general economic conditions and its outlook for business as it determines to pay any distribution. 16 Table of Contents The Partnership may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to pay distributions to unitholders. The amount of cash that the Partnership can distribute to its partners, including us, each quarter principally depends upon the amount of cash it generates from its operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the amount of natural gas transported in its gathering and transmission pipelines; • the level of the Partnership’s processing operations; • the fees the Partnership charges and the margins it realizes for its services; • the price of natural gas; • the relationship between natural gas and NGL prices; and • its level of operating costs; In addition, the actual amount of cash the Partnership will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond its control, including: • the level of capital expenditures the Partnership makes; • the cost of acquisitions, if any; • its debt service requirements; • fluctuations in its working capital needs; • its ability to make working capital borrowings under its bank credit facility to pay distributions; • prevailing economic conditions; and • the amount of cash reserves established by the general partner in its sole discretion for the proper conduct of its business. Because of these factors, the Partnership may not be able, or may not have sufficient available cash to pay distributions to unitholders each quarter. Furthermore, you should also be aware that the amount of cash the Partnership has available for distribution depends primarily upon its cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves and working capital borrowings, and is not solely a function of profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, the Partnership may make cash distributions during periods when it records losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when it records net income. We are largely prohibited from engaging in activities that compete with the Partnership. So long as we own the general partner of the Partnership, we are prohibited by an omnibus agreement with the Partnership from engaging in the business of gathering, transmitting, treating, processing, storing and marketing natural gas and transporting, fractionating, storing and marketing NGLs, except to the extent that the Partnership, with the concurrence of its independent directors comprising its conflicts committee, elects not to engage in a particular acquisition or expansion opportunity. This exception for competitive activities is relatively limited. Although we have no current intention of pursuing the types of opportunities that we are permitted to pursue under the omnibus agreement such as competitive opportunities that the Partnership declines to pursue or permitted activities that are not competition with the Partnership, the provisions of the omnibus agreement may, in the future, limit activities that we would otherwise pursue. 17 Table of Contents In our corporate charter, we have renounced business opportunities that may be pursued by the Partnership or by certain stockholders. In our restated charter and in accordance with Delaware law, we have renounced any interest or expectancy we may have in, or being offered an opportunity to participate in, any business opportunities, including any opportunities within those classes of opportunity currently pursued by the Partnership, presented to: • persons who are officers or directors of the company or who, on October 1, 2003, were, and at the time of presentation are, stockholders of the company (or to persons who are affiliates or associates of such officers, directors or stockholders), if the company is prohibited from participating in such opportunities by the omnibus agreement; or • any investment fund sponsored or managed by Yorktown Partners LLC, including any fund still to be formed, or to any of our directors who is an affiliate or designate of these entities. As a result of this renunciation, these officers, directors and stockholders should not be deemed to be breaching any fiduciary duty to us if they or their affiliates or associates pursue opportunities presented as described above. Although we control the Partnership, the general partner owes fiduciary duties to the Partnership and the unitholders. Conflicts of interest exist and may arise in the future as a result of the relationship between us and our affiliates, including the general partner, on the one hand, and the Partnership and its limited partners, on the other hand. The directors and officers of Crosstex Energy GP, LLC have fiduciary duties to manage the general partner in a manner beneficial to us, its owner. At the same time, the general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage the Partnership in a manner beneficial to the Partnership and its limited partners. The board of directors of Crosstex Energy GP, LLC will resolve any such conflict and has broad latitude to consider the interests of all parties to the conflict. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our best interest or that of our stockholders. For example, conflicts of interest may arise in the following situations: • the allocation of shared overhead expenses to the Partnership and us; • the interpretation and enforcement of contractual obligations between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and the Partnership, on the other hand, including obligations under the omnibus agreement; • the determination of the amount of cash to be distributed to the Partnership’s partners and the amount of cash to be reserved for the future conduct of the Partnership’s business; • the determination whether to make borrowings under the capital facility to pay distributions to partners; and • any decision we make in the future to engage in activities in competition with the Partnership as permitted under our omnibus agreement with the Partnership. If the general partner is not fully reimbursed or indemnified for obligations and liabilities it incurs in managing the business and affairs of the Partnership, its value, and therefore the value of our common stock, could decline. The general partner may make expenditures on behalf of the Partnership for which it will seek reimbursement from the Partnership. In addition, under Delaware partnership law, the general partner, in its capacity as the general partner of the Partnership, has unlimited liability for the obligations of the Partnership, such as its debts and environmental liabilities, except for those contractual obligations of the Partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. To the extent the general partner incurs obligations on behalf of the Partnership, it is entitled to be reimbursed or indemnified by the general partner. In the event that the Partnership is unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify the general partner, the general partner may be unable to satisfy these liabilities or obligations, which would reduce its value and therefore the value of our common stock. The Partnership’s profitability is dependent upon prices and market demand for natural gas and NGLs, which are beyond its control and have been volatile. The Partnership’s business is subject to significant risks due to fluctuations in commodity prices. It is directly exposed to these risks primarily in the gas processing component of its business. It is also indirectly exposed to commodity prices due to the negative impacts on production and the development of production of natural gas and NGLs connected to or near its assets and on its margins for transportation between certain market centers. A large percentage of its processing fees are realized under percent of liquids (POL) contracts that are directly impacted by the market price of NGLs. It also realizes processing gross margins under processing margin (margin) contracts. These settlements are impacted by the relationship between NGL prices and the underlying natural gas prices, which is also referred to as the fractionation spread. 18 Table of Contents A significant volume of inlet gas at the Partnership’s south Louisiana and north Texas processing plants is settled under POL agreements. The POL fees are denominated in the form of a share of the liquids extracted and it is not responsible for the fuel or shrink associated with processing. Therefore, revenue under a POL agreement is directly impacted by NGL prices, and the decline of these prices in the second half of 2008 and early 2009 contributed to a significant decline in the Partnership’s gross margin from processing. The Partnership has a number of contracts on its Plaquemine and Gibson processing plants that expose it to the fractionation spread. Under these margin contracts its gross margin is based upon the difference in the value of NGLs extracted from the gas less the value of the product in its gaseous state (“shrink”) and the cost of fuel to extract during processing. During the second half of 2008 and early 2009, the fractionation spread narrowed significantly as the value of NGLs decreased more than the value of the gas and fuel associated with the processed gas. Thus the gross margin realized under these margin contracts was negatively impacted due to the commodity price environment. Such a decline may negatively impact its gross margin in the future if such declines again. In the past, the prices of natural gas and NGLs have been extremely volatile and the Partnership expects this volatility to continue. For example, prices of oil, natural gas and NGLs in 2009 were below the market price realized throughout most of 2008. Crude oil prices (based on the New York Mercantile Exchange (the “NYMEX”) futures daily close prices for the prompt month) improved during 2009 with prices ranging from a low of $33.98 per Bbl in February 2009 to a high of $81.37 per Bbl in October 2009. Weighted average NGL prices (based on the Oil Price Information Service (OPIS) Mt. Belvieu daily average spot liquids prices) have also improved with prices ranging from a low of $0.58 per gallon in March 2009 to a high of $1.21 per gallon in December 2009. Natural gas prices declined during 2009 with prices ranging from a high of $6.10 per MMBtu in January 2009 to a low of $1.85 per MMBtu in September 2009. Natural gas prices improved during the fourth quarter of 2009, with prices reaching a high of $6.00 per MMBtu in December 2009. The markets and prices for natural gas and NGLs depend upon factors beyond the Partnership’s control. These factors include the supply and demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs, which fluctuate with changes in market and economic conditions and other factors, including: • the impact of weather on the demand for oil and natural gas; • the level of domestic oil and natural gas production; • technology, including improved production techniques (particularly with respect to shale development); • the level of domestic industrial and manufacturing activity; • the availability of imported oil, natural gas and NGLs; • international demand for oil and NGLs; • actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations; • the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems; • the availability of downstream NGL fractionation facilities; • the availability and marketing of competitive fuels; • the impact of energy conservation efforts; and • the extent of governmental regulation and taxation, including the regulation of “greenhouse gases.” 19 Table of Contents Changes in commodity prices may also indirectly impact the Partnership’s profitability by influencing drilling activity and well operations, and thus the volume of gas it can gather and process. This volatility may cause the Partnership’s gross margin and cash flows to vary widely from period to period. Hedging strategies may not be sufficient to offset price volatility risk and, in any event, do not cover all of the Partnership’s throughput volumes. Moreover, hedges are subject to inherent risks, which we describe in “—The Partnership’s use of derivative financial instruments does not eliminate its exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices and interest rates and has in the past and could in the future result in financial losses or reduced income.” For a discussion of the Partnership’s risk management activities, please read “Item 7A. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosure about Market Risk.” The Partnership’s substantial indebtedness could limit its flexibility and adversely affect its financial health. The Partnership has a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2009, the Partnership had approximately $873.7 million of indebtedness outstanding. As of February 12, 2010, after repayment of existing debt with proceeds from the sale of preferred units together with proceeds from the issuance of its senior unsecured notes and borrowings under its new credit facility, the Partnership had approximately $790.6 million (including $15.2 million of original issue discount on the senior unsecured notes) of indebtedness outstanding, including $725.0 million of senior unsecured notes and $47.5 million of secured indebtedness outstanding under our new credit facility and $18.1 million of series B secured note associated with the Eunice lease acquisition. The Partnership also had approximately $179.4 million of letters of credit outstanding under its old credit facility as of February 12, 2010 that were subsequently replaced by letters of credit under the new credit facility. The Partnership’s substantial indebtedness could limit its flexibility and adversely affect its financial health. For example, it could: • make the Partnership more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require the Partnership to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on its indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of its cash flow for operations and other purposes; • limit the Partnership’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in which it operates; and • place the Partnership at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that may have proportionately less indebtedness. In addition, the Partnership’s ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance obligations depends on its successful financial and operating performance. The Partnership cannot assure you that its operating performance will generate sufficient cash flow or that its capital resources will be sufficient for payment of its indebtedness obligations in the future. The Partnership’s financial and operating performance, cash flow and capital resources depend upon prevailing economic conditions and certain financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond its control. If the Partnership’s cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund its debt service obligations, the Partnership may be forced to sell material assets or operations, obtain additional capital or restructure its debt. In the event that the Partnership is required to dispose of material assets or operations or restructure its debt to meet debt service and other obligations, it cannot assure you as to the terms of any such transaction or how quickly any such transaction could be completed, if at all. The Partnership may not be able to obtain additional funding for future capital needs or to refinance its debt, either on acceptable terms or at all. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile, which has caused substantial contraction in the credit and capital markets. These conditions, along with significant write-offs in the financial services sector and current weak economic conditions, have made, and will likely continue to make, it difficult to obtain funding for the Partnership’s capital needs. As a result, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets has diminished significantly. Due to these factors, the Partnership cannot be certain that new debt or equity financing will be available to it on acceptable terms or at all. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, the Partnership may be unable to meet its obligations as they come due. Without adequate funding, the Partnership may be unable to execute its growth strategy, complete future acquisitions or future construction projects or other capital expenditures, take advantage of other business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on its revenues and results of operations. Further, its customers may increase collateral requirements from the Partnership, including letters of credit which reduce available borrowing capacity, or reduce the business they transact with the Partnership to reduce their credit exposure. Due to current economic conditions, the Partnership’s ability to obtain funding under its new credit facility could be impaired. The Partnership operates in a capital-intensive industry and relies on its new credit facility to assist in financing a significant portion of its capital expenditures. The Partnership’s ability to borrow under its new credit facility may be impaired. Specifically, the Partnership may be unable to obtain adequate funding under its new credit facility because: • one or more of the Partnership’s lenders may be unable or otherwise fail to meet its funding obligations; • the lenders do not have to provide funding if there is a default under the credit agreement or if any of the representations or warranties included in the agreement are false in any material respect; and • if any lender refuses to fund its commitment for any reason, whether or not valid, the other lenders are not required to provide additional funding to make up for the unfunded portion. 20 Table of Contents If the Partnership is unable to access funds under its new credit facility, the Partnership will need to meet its capital requirements, including some of its short-term capital requirements, using other sources. Alternative sources of liquidity may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If the cash generated from its operations or the funds the Partnership is able to obtain under its new credit facility or other sources of liquidity are not sufficient to meet its capital requirements, then it may need to delay or abandon capital projects or other business opportunities, which could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. Due to the Partnership’s lack of asset diversification, adverse developments in its gathering, transmission, processing and producer services businesses would materially impact its financial condition. The Partnership relies exclusively on the revenues generated from its gathering, transmission, processing and producer services businesses and as a result its financial condition depends upon prices of, and continued demand for, natural gas and NGLs. Due to its lack of asset diversification, an adverse development in one of these businesses would have a significantly greater impact on its financial condition and results of operations than if the Partnership maintained more diverse assets. Many of the Partnership’s customers’ drilling activity levels and spending for transportation on its pipeline system or gathering and processing at its facilities have been, and may continue to be, impacted by the current deterioration in the credit markets. Many of the Partnership’s customers finance their drilling activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. During the last half of 2008 and during 2009, there was a significant decline in the credit markets and the availability of credit. Adverse price changes, coupled with the overall downturn in the economy and the constrained capital markets, put downward pressure on drilling budgets for gas producers, which has resulted in lower volumes that the Partnership otherwise would have seen being transported on its pipeline and gathering systems and processing through its processing plants. The Partnership saw a decline in drilling activity by gas producers in its Barnett Shale area of operation in north Texas during the fourth quarter of 2008 and during 2009. A continued decline in drilling activity or low drilling activity could have a material adverse effect on its operations. The Partnership is exposed to the credit risk of its customers and counterparties, and a general increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by its customers could have an adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Risks of nonpayment and nonperformance by the Partnership’s customers are a major concern in its business. The Partnership is subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by its customers and other counterparties, such as lenders and hedging counterparties. Any increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by its customers could adversely affect the results of operations and reduce the Partnership’s ability to make distributions to its unitholders. Many of the Partnership’s customers finance their activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. Recently, there has been a significant decline in the credit markets and the availability of credit. Additionally, many of the Partnership’s customers’ equity values have substantially declined. The combination of reduction of cash flow resulting from declines in commodity prices, a reduction in borrowing bases under reserve based credit facilities and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may result in a significant reduction in customers’ liquidity and ability to make payment or perform on their obligations to the Partnership. Furthermore, some of the customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks, which increases the risk that they may default on their obligations to the Partnership. The Partnership’s use of derivative financial instruments does not eliminate its exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices and interest rates and has in the past and could in the future result in financial losses or reduced income. The Partnership’s operations expose it to fluctuations in commodity prices, and its new credit facility exposes the Partnership to fluctuations in interest rates. The Partnership uses over-the-counter price and basis swaps with other natural gas merchants and financial institutions and interest rate swaps with financial institutions. Use of these instruments is intended to reduce its exposure to short-term volatility in commodity prices and interest rates. As of December 31, 2009, the Partnership had hedged only portions of its variable-rate debt and expected natural gas supply, NGL production and natural gas requirements, and had direct interest rate and commodity price risk with respect to the unhedged portions. In addition, to the extent the Partnership hedges its commodity price and interest rate risks using swap instruments, it will forego the benefits of favorable changes in commodity prices or interest rates. In February 2010, the Partnership settled all of its interest rate swaps associated with its existing credit facility when the Partnership repaid the debt outstanding under this facility. 21 Table of Contents Even though monitored by management, the Partnership’s hedging activities may fail to protect it and could reduce earnings and cash flow. Its hedging activity may be ineffective or adversely affect cash flow and earnings because, among other factors: • hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of volatile prices; • the Partnership’s counterparty in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay or otherwise fail to perform; and • available hedges may not correspond directly with the risks against which the Partnership seeks protection. For example: • the duration of a hedge may not match the duration of the risk against which the Partnership seeks protection; • variations in the index used to price a commodity hedge may not adequately correlate with variations in the index used to sell the physical commodity (known as basis risk); and • the Partnership may not produce or process sufficient volumes to cover swap arrangements it enters into for a given period. If its actual volumes are lower than the volumes it estimated when entering into a swap for the period, the Partnership might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of its derivative obligation without the benefit of cash flow from its sale or purchase of the underlying physical commodity, which could adversely affect liquidity. The Partnership’s financial statements may reflect gains or losses arising from exposure to commodity prices or interest rates for which it is unable to enter into fully effective hedges. In addition, the standards for cash flow hedge accounting are rigorous. Even when the Partnership engages in hedging transactions that are effective economically, these transactions may not be considered effective cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. Partnership earnings could be subject to increased volatility to the extent its derivatives do not continue to qualify as cash flow hedges, and, if the Partnership assumes derivatives as part of an acquisition, to the extent it cannot obtain or choose not to seek cash flow hedge accounting for the derivatives it assumes. Please read “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk” for a summary of the Partnership’s hedging activities. The Partnership may not be successful in balancing its purchases and sales. The Partnership is a party to certain long-term gas sales commitments that it satisfies through supplies purchased under long-term gas purchase agreements. When the Partnership enters into those arrangements, its sales obligations generally match its purchase obligations. However, over time the supplies that the Partnership has under contract may decline due to reduced drilling or other causes and it may be required to satisfy the sales obligations by buying additional gas at prices that may exceed the prices received under the sales commitments. In addition, a producer could fail to deliver contracted volumes or deliver in excess of contracted volumes, or a consumer could purchase more or less than contracted volumes. Any of these actions could cause the Partnership’s purchases and sales not to be balanced. If the Partnership’s purchases and sales are not balanced, it will face increased exposure to commodity price risks and could have increased volatility in operating income. The Partnership makes certain commitments to purchase natural gas in production areas based on production-area indices and to sell the natural gas into market areas based on market-area indices, pay the costs to transport the natural gas between the two points and capture the difference between the indices as margin. Changes in the index prices relative to each other (also referred to as basis spread) can significantly affect the Partnership’s margins or even result in losses. For example, the Partnership is a party to one contract where it buys gas on several different production-area indices on its NTP and sells the gas into a different market area index. For the fourth quarter of 2009, this imbalance resulted in a loss of approximately $1.8 million due to basis differentials between the various market prices. The Partnership must continually compete for natural gas supplies, and any decrease in its supplies of natural gas could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. If the Partnership is unable to maintain or increase the throughput on its systems by accessing new natural gas supplies to offset the natural decline in reserves, its business and financial results could be materially, adversely affected. In addition, the Partnership’s future growth will depend, in part, upon whether it can contract for additional supplies at a greater rate than the rate of natural decline in its currently connected supplies. In order to maintain or increase throughput levels in the Partnership’s natural gas gathering systems and asset utilization rates at the Partnership’s processing plants and to fulfill its current sales commitments, it must continually contract for new natural gas supplies. The Partnership may not be able to obtain additional contracts for natural gas supplies. The primary factors affecting its ability to connect new wells to its gathering facilities include the Partnership’s success in contracting for existing natural gas supplies that are not committed to other systems and the level of drilling activity near its gathering systems. Fluctuations in energy prices can greatly affect production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. For example, as oil and natural gas prices decreased during the last half of 2008 and the first half of 2009, there was a corresponding decrease in drilling activity. Tax policy changes or additional regulatory restrictions on development could also have a negative impact on drilling activity, reducing supplies of natural gas available to the Partnership’s systems. The Partnership has no control over producers and depends on them to maintain sufficient levels of drilling activity. A material decrease in natural gas production or in the level of drilling activity in the Partnership’s principal geographic areas for a prolonged period, as a result of depressed commodity prices or otherwise, likely would have a material adverse effect on results of operations and financial position. 22 Table of Contents The Partnership is vulnerable to operational, regulatory and other risks due to its concentration of assets in south Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico, including the effects of adverse weather conditions such as hurricanes. The Partnership’s operations and revenues will be significantly impacted by conditions in south Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico because it has a significant portion of its assets located in south Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico. In 2008, the Partnership’s business was negatively impacted by hurricanes Gustav and Ike, which came ashore in the Gulf Coast in September. These storms resulted in an adverse impact to the Partnership’s gross margins of approximately $22.9 million in the last half of 2008. Although the Partnership’s assets did not sustain substantial physical damage, several offshore production platforms and pipelines owned by third parties that transport gas production to our Pelican, Eunice, Sabine Pass and Blue Water processing plants in south Louisiana were damaged by the storms. Some of the repairs to these offshore facilities were completed during the fourth quarter of 2008, but gas production to the Partnership’s south Louisiana plants did not recover to pre-hurricane levels until September 2009. The Partnership’s concentration of activity in Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico makes it more vulnerable than many of its competitors to the risks associated with these areas, including: • adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms; • delays or decreases in production, the availability of equipment, facilities or services; and • changes in the regulatory environment. Because a significant portion of the Partnership’s operations could experience the same condition at the same time, these conditions could have a relatively greater impact on its results of operations than they might have on other midstream companies who have operations in more diversified geographic areas. In addition, the Partnership’s operations in south Louisiana are dependent upon continued conventional and deep shelf drilling in the Gulf of Mexico. The deep shelf in the Gulf of Mexico is an area that has had limited historical drilling activity. This is due, in part, to its geological complexity and depth. Deep shelf development is more expensive and inherently more risky than conventional shelf drilling. A decline in the level of deep shelf drilling in the Gulf of Mexico could have an adverse effect on the Partnership’s financial condition and results of operations. Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing could result in reductions or delays in natural gas production by the Partnership’s customers, which could adversely impact its revenues. The U.S. Congress is currently considering legislation to amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act to subject hydraulic fracturing operations to regulation under that Act and to require the disclosure of chemicals used by the oil and gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and commonly used process in the completion of oil and gas wells by our customers, particularly in Barnett Shale and Haynesville Shale regions of the Partnership’s operations. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate gas production. Sponsors of bills currently pending before the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies. Proposed legislation would require, among other things, the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process, which could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings against producers and service providers. In addition, these bills, if adopted, could establish an additional level of regulation and permitting of hydraulic fracturing operations at the federal level, which could lead to operational delays, increased operating costs and additional regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult for our customers to perform hydraulic fracturing. Many producers make extensive use of hydraulic fracturing in the areas that the Partnership serves and any increased federal, state or local regulation could reduce the volumes of natural gas that they move through the Partnership’s gathering systems which would materially adversely affect revenues and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents A substantial portion of the Partnership’s assets are connected to natural gas reserves that will decline over time, and the cash flows associated with those assets will decline accordingly. A substantial portion of the Partnership’s assets, including its gathering systems, is dedicated to certain natural gas reserves and wells for which the production will naturally decline over time. Accordingly, cash flows associated with these assets will also decline. If the Partnership is unable to access new supplies of natural gas either by connecting additional reserves to its existing assets or by constructing or acquiring new assets that have access to additional natural gas reserves, cash flows may decline. Growing the Partnership’s business by constructing new pipelines and processing facilities subjects it to construction risks, risks that natural gas supplies will not be available upon completion of the facilities and risks of construction delay and additional costs due to obtaining rights-of-way and complying with federal, state and local laws. One of the ways the Partnership intends to grow its business is through the construction of additions to our existing gathering systems and construction of new pipelines and gathering and processing facilities. The construction of pipelines and gathering and processing facilities requires the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, which may exceed our expectations. Generally, the Partnership may have only limited natural gas supplies committed to these facilities prior to their construction. Moreover, it may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which anticipated production growth does not materialize. The Partnership may also rely on estimates of proved reserves in its decision to construct new pipelines and facilities, which may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough natural gas to achieve the expected investment return, which could adversely affect the Partnership’s results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the Partnership faces the risks of construction delay and additional costs due to obtaining rights-of-way and local permits and complying with federal or state laws and city ordinances, particularly as the Partnership expands its operations into more urban, populated areas such as the Barnett Shale. Acquisitions typically increase the Partnership’s debt and subjects it to other substantial risks, which could adversely affect its results of operations. From time to time, the Partnership may evaluate and seek to acquire assets or businesses that it believes complement existing business and related assets. The Partnership may acquire assets or businesses that it plans to use in a manner materially different from their prior owner’s use. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including: • the inability to integrate the operations of recently acquired businesses or assets; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • the loss of customers or key employees from the acquired businesses; • a significant increase in the Partnership’s indebtedness; and • potential environmental or regulatory liabilities and title problems. Management’s assessment of these risks is necessarily inexact and may not reveal or resolve all existing or potential problems associated with an acquisition. Realization of any of these risks could adversely affect the Partnership’s operations and cash flows. If Partnership consummates any future acquisition, its capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and you will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that the Partnership will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources. Additionally, the Partnership’s ability to grow its asset base in the near future through acquisitions may be limited due to its lack of access to capital markets. The Partnership expects to encounter significant competition in any new geographic areas into which it seeks to expand and its ability to enter such markets may be limited. If the Partnership expands its operations into new geographic areas, it expects to encounter significant competition for natural gas supplies and markets. Competitors in these new markets will include companies larger than the Partnership, which have both lower capital costs and greater geographic coverage, as well as smaller companies, which have lower total cost structures. As a result, the Partnership may not be able to successfully develop acquired assets and markets located in new geographic areas and its results of operations could be adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents The Partnership may not be able to retain existing customers or acquire new customers, which would reduce its revenues and limit its future profitability. The renewal or replacement of existing contracts with the Partnership’s customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows depends on a number of factors beyond its control, including competition from other pipelines, and the price of, and demand for, natural gas in the markets the Partnership serves. The inability of the Partnership’s management to renew or replace its current contracts as they expire and to respond appropriately to changing market conditions could have a negative effect on its profitability. In particular, the Partnership’s ability to renew or replace its existing contracts with industrial end-users and utilities impacts its profitability. For the year ended December 31, 2009, approximately 48.5% of the Partnership’s sales of natural gas that was transported using its physical facilities were to industrial end-users and utilities. As a consequence of the increase in competition in the industry and volatility of natural gas prices, end-users and utilities are reluctant to enter into long-term purchase contracts. Many end-users purchase natural gas from more than one natural gas company and have the ability to change providers at any time. Some of these end-users also have the ability to switch between gas and alternate fuels in response to relative price fluctuations in the market. Because there are numerous companies of greatly varying size and financial capacity that compete with the Partnership in the marketing of natural gas, the Partnership often competes in the end-user and utilities markets primarily on the basis of price. The Partnership depends on certain key customers, and the loss of any of its key customers could adversely affect its financial results. The Partnership derives a significant portion of its revenues from contracts with key customers. To the extent that these and other customers may reduce volumes of natural gas purchased or transported under existing contracts, the Partnership would be adversely affected unless it was able to make comparably profitable arrangements with other customers. Certain agreements with key customers provide for minimum volumes of natural gas or natural gas services that require the customer to transport, process or purchase until the expiration of the term of the applicable agreement, subject to certain force majeure provisions. Customers may default on their obligations to transport, process or purchase the minimum volumes of natural gas or natural gas services required under the applicable agreements. The Partnership’s business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. The Partnership’s operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the gathering, compressing, processing and storage of natural gas and NGLs, including: • damage to pipelines, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, floods, fires and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism; • inadvertent damage from construction and farm equipment; • leaks of natural gas, NGLs and other hydrocarbons; and • fires and explosions. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage and may result in curtailment or suspension of the Partnership’s related operations. The Partnership is not fully insured against all risks incident to its business. In accordance with typical industry practice, the Partnership does not have any property insurance on any of it underground pipeline systems that would cover damage to the pipelines. It is not insured against all environmental accidents that might occur, other than those considered to be sudden and accidental. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, it could adversely affect the Partnership’s operations and financial condition. The threat of terrorist attacks has resulted in increased costs, and future war or risk of war may adversely impact the Partnership’s results of operations and its ability to raise capital. Terrorist attacks or the threat of terrorist attacks cause instability in the global financial markets and other industries, including the energy industry. Infrastructure facilities, including pipelines, production facilities, and transmission and distribution facilities, could be direct targets, or indirect casualties, of an act of terror. The Partnership’s insurance policies generally exclude acts of terrorism. Such insurance is not available at what it believes to be acceptable pricing levels. 25 Table of Contents Federal, state or local regulatory measures could adversely affect the Partnership’s business. The Partnership’s natural gas gathering and processing activities generally are exempt from FERC regulation under the Natural Gas Act. However, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of substantial, on-going litigation, so the classification and regulation of our gathering facilities are subject to change based on future determinations by FERC and the courts. Natural gas gathering may receive greater regulatory scrutiny at both the state and federal levels since FERC has less extensively regulated the gathering activities of interstate pipeline transmission companies and a number of such companies have transferred gathering facilities to unregulated affiliates. The Partnership’s gathering operations also may be or become subject to safety and operational regulations relating to the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of gathering facilities. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to these matters are considered or adopted from time to time. The Partnership cannot predict what effect, if any, such changes might have on its operations, but the industry could be required to incur additional capital expenditures and increased costs depending on future legislative and regulatory changes. The rates, terms and conditions of service under which the Partnership transports natural gas in its pipeline systems in interstate commerce are subject to FERC regulation under the Section 311 of the Natural Gas Policy Act. Under these regulations, the Partnership is required to justify its rates for interstate transportation service on a cost-of-service basis, every three years. The Partnership’s intrastate natural gas pipeline operations are subject to regulation by various agencies of the states in which they are located. Should FERC or any of these state agencies determine that the Partnership’s rates for Section 311 transportation service or intrastate transportation service should be lowered, its business could be adversely affected. Other state and local regulations also affect the Partnership’s business. It is subject to some ratable take and common purchaser statutes in the states where it operate. Ratable take statutes generally require gatherers to take, without undue discrimination, natural gas production that may be tendered to the gatherer for handling. Similarly, common purchaser statutes generally require gatherers to purchase without undue discrimination as to source of supply or producer. These statutes have the effect of restricting the Partnership’s right as an owner of gathering facilities to decide with whom it will contract to purchase or transport natural gas. Federal law leaves any economic regulation of natural gas gathering to the states, and some of the states in which the Partnership operates have adopted complaint-based or other limited economic regulation of natural gas gathering activities. States in which the Partnership operates that have adopted some form of complaint-based regulation, like Texas, generally allow natural gas producers and shippers to file complaints with state regulators in an effort to resolve grievances relating to natural gas gathering access and rate discrimination. The states in which the Partnership conducts operations administer federal pipeline safety standards under the Pipeline Safety Act of 1968. The “rural gathering exemption” under the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968 presently exempts substantial portions of its gathering facilities from jurisdiction under that statute, including those portions located outside of cities, towns, or any area designated as residential or commercial, such as a subdivision or shopping center. The “rural gathering exemption,” however, may be restricted in the future, and it does not apply to the Partnership’s natural gas transmission pipelines. In response to recent pipeline accidents in other parts of the country, Congress and the Department of Transportation, or DOT, have passed or are considering heightened pipeline safety requirements. Compliance with pipeline integrity regulations issued by the United States Department of Transportation in December 2003 or those issued by the TRRC could result in substantial expenditures for testing, repairs and replacement. TRRC regulations require periodic testing of all intrastate pipelines meeting certain size and location requirements. The Partnership’s costs relating to compliance with the required testing under the TRRC regulations, adjusted to exclude costs associated with discontinued operations, were approximately at $1.1 million, $1.4 million, and $0.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. The Partnership expects the costs for compliance with TRRC and DOT regulations to be approximately $3.7 million during 2010. If the Partnership’s pipelines fail to meet the safety standards mandated by the TRRC or the DOT regulations, then it may be required to repair or replace sections of such pipelines, the cost of which cannot be estimated at this time. As the Partnership’s operations continue to expand into and around urban, or more populated areas, such as the Barnett Shale, it may incur additional expenses to mitigate noise, odor and light that may be emitted in its operations, and expenses related to the appearance of its facilities. Municipal and other local or state regulations are imposing various obligations, including, among other things, regulating the location of our facilities, imposing limitations on the noise levels of the Partnership’s facilities and requiring certain other improvements that increase the cost of its facilities. The Partnership is also subject to claims by neighboring landowners for nuisance related to the construction and operation of its facilities, which could subject it to damages for declines in neighboring property values due to its construction and operation of facilities. 26 Table of Contents The Partnership’s business involves hazardous substances and may be adversely affected by environmental regulation. Many of the operations and activities of the Partnership’s gathering systems, processing plants, fractionators and other facilities are subject to significant federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. The obligations imposed by these laws and regulations include obligations related to air emissions and discharge of pollutants from facilities and the cleanup of hazardous substances and other wastes that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by the Partnership or locations to which it has sent wastes for treatment or disposal. Various governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, and violators are subject to administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, injunctions or both. Strict, joint and several liability may be incurred under these laws and regulations for the remediation of contaminated areas. Private parties, including the owners of properties near the Partnership’s facilities or upon or through which the Partnership’s gathering systems traverse, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations for releases of contaminants or for personal injury or property damage. There is inherent risk of the incurrence of significant environmental costs and liabilities in the Partnership’s business due to its handling of natural gas and other petroleum substances, air emissions related to its operations, historical industry operations, waste disposal practices and the prior use of natural gas flow meters containing mercury. In addition, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. The Partnership may incur material environmental costs and liabilities. Furthermore, its insurance may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against it. The Partnership’s business may be adversely affected by increased costs due to stricter pollution control requirements or liabilities resulting from non-compliance with required operating or other regulatory permits. New environmental laws or regulations, including, for example, legislation being considered by the U.S. Congress relating to the control of greenhouse gas emissions or changes in existing environmental laws or regulations might adversely affect products and activities, including processing, storage and transportation, as well as waste management and air emissions. Federal and state agencies could also impose additional safety requirements, any of which could affect the Partnership’s profitability. Changes in laws or regulations could also limit production or the operation of the Partnership’s assets or adversely affect its ability to comply with applicable legal requirements or the demand for natural gas, which could adversely affect business and the Partnership’s profitability. The Partnership’s success depends on key members of its management, the loss or replacement of whom could disrupt business operations. The Partnership depends on the continued employment and performance of the officers of the general partner of its general partner and key operational personnel. The general partner of its general partner has entered into employment agreements with each of its executive officers. If any of these officers or other key personnel resign or become unable to continue in their present roles and are not adequately replaced, the Partnership’s business operations could be materially adversely affected. The Partnership does not maintain any “key man” life insurance for any officers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We do not have any unresolved staff comments. 