ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our company involves various risks, including the risk that you might lose your entire investment. Our results of operations depend upon many factors including our ability to implement our business strategy, the availability of opportunities to acquire assets and make loans, the level and volatility of interest rates, the cost and availability of short- and long-term credit, financial market conditions, and general economic conditions. The following discussion concerns some of the risks associated with our business. These risks are interrelated, and you should treat them as a whole. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or not identified below, may also materially and adversely affect the value of our common stock and our ability to distribute dividends. General Risks Related to our Business We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of First NLC in February 2005, which could have an adverse effect on our earnings and in turn negatively affect the value of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. We expect to realize financial and operating benefits including improved returns on invested capital in non-conforming residential mortgage loans originated by First NLC. However, we cannot predict with certainty when these benefits will occur, or the extent to which they actually will be achieved, if at all. The ongoing management oversight of First NLC will also require substantial attention from management. The diversion of management attention and any difficulties associated with managing First NLC could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and on the value of our common stock. We may not be able to manage our growth efficiently, which may adversely affect our results and may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Over the last several years, we have experienced significant growth in our business activities, in the number of our employees and in our equity and assets. Our growth has required, and our growth will continue to require, increased investment in management and professionals, personnel, financial and management systems and controls and facilities, which could cause our operating margins to decline from historical levels, especially in the absence of revenue growth. In addition, as is common in the industry, our broker-dealer and mortgage loan origination subsidiaries will continue to be highly dependent on the effective and reliable operation of communications and information systems and business continuity plans. We believe that our anticipated future growth will require implementation of new and enhanced communications and information systems and training of our personnel to operate these systems. In addition, the scope of procedures for assuring compliance with applicable laws and regulations and NASD rules has changed as the size and complexity of our business has changed. As we continue to grow, we will continue to implement additional formal compliance procedures to reflect our growth. Any difficulty or significant delay in the implementation or operation of existing or new systems, compliance procedures or the training of personnel could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends. 30 Table of Contents The voting power of our principal shareholders and other executive officers, directors and nominees may result in corporate action with which you do not agree and may discourage third party acquisitions of our company and prevent our shareholders from receiving any premium above market price for their shares. Eric F. Billings has significant influence over our operations through his ownership of our common stock, which, as of January 31, 2007, represents approximately 12.2% of the total voting power of our common stock. In addition, Mr. Billings serves as one of our directors and as our Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Billings also serves as a member of the board of directors and as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of FBR Capital Markets. Mr. Billings and all of our other executive officers, directors and nominees, as a group, control, as of January 31, 2007, approximately 15.5% of our total voting power. The extent of the influence that Mr. Billings and our other officers, directors and nominees have over us may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire control of our company and may preclude holders of our common stock from receiving any premium above market price for their shares that may be offered in connection with any attempt to acquire control of our company without the approval of Mr. Billings. The trading prices of our Class A common stock may be adversely affected by factors outside of our control. Any negative changes in the public’s perception of the prospects for companies in the REIT, the mortgage-backed securities, the merchant banking, or non-conforming mortgage loan origination industries, or in the investment banking, securities brokerage, asset management, or financial services industries could depress our stock price regardless of our results. The following factors could contribute to the volatility of the price of our Class A common stock: • actual or unanticipated variations in our quarterly results; • changes in our level of dividend payments; • new products or services offered by us and our competitors; • changes in our financial estimates by securities analysts; • conditions or trends in the investment or financial services industries in general; • changes in interest rate environments and the mortgage market that cause our borrowing costs to increase, our reported yields on our mortgage-backed securities to decrease or that cause the value of our mortgage-backed securities to decrease; • increased defaults under non-conforming residential mortgage loans originated by First NLC and held in our portfolio; • announcements by us of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, investments or joint ventures; • changes in the market valuations of the companies in which we make principal investments; • negative changes in the public’s perception of the prospects of investment or financial services or non-conforming residential mortgage loan originating companies; • changes in the regulatory environment in which our business operates; • general economic conditions such as a recession, or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations; • any obstacles in continuing to qualify as a REIT, including changes in law applicable to REITs; • additions or departures of our key personnel; and • additional sales of our securities. Many of these factors are beyond our control. 31 Table of Contents We may experience significant fluctuations in quarterly operating results due to the volatile nature of the investment banking and securities business and the sensitivity of our principal investing business to changes in interest rates and fluctuations in the stock market and we may therefore fail to meet profitability or dividend expectations, which may, in turn, affect the market price of our Class A common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and from year to year due to a combination of factors, including: • the number and size of underwriting and merger and acquisition transactions completed by our investment banking group, and the level and timing of fees received from those transactions; • changes in the earnings from our mortgage-backed securities and other principal investments resulting from market volatility, changes in interest rates and volatility in mortgage loan prepayment rates; • changes in the market valuations of the investments of our managed funds and of the companies in which we have made principal investments; • changes in earnings from non-conforming residential mortgage loans originated by First NLC or purchased from third parties and held in our portfolio resulting from increased borrower defaults; • access to public markets or other exit strategies for companies in which we have made an investment as principal; • the recognition of profits or losses on principal investments or with respect to warrants or other equity-linked securities received in connection with capital-raising activities; • the level of institutional and retail brokerage transactions and the level of commissions received from those transactions; • the timing of recording of asset management fees and special allocations of income, if any; • the level of residential real estate activity and its effect on our mortgage loan originations; • variations in expenditures for personnel, consulting and legal expenses, and expenses of establishing new business units, including technology expenses; and • other variations in expenditures, including marketing and sponsorship. Any one of these factors could adversely affect the market price of our common Class A stock and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. An increase in market interest rates may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. One of the factors that investors may consider in deciding whether to buy or sell our common stock is our dividend rate as a percentage of our share price, relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates increase, prospective investors may desire a higher dividend rate on our common stock or seek securities paying higher dividends or interest. For instance, if interest rates rise without an increase in our dividend rate, the market price of our common stock could decrease because potential investors may require a higher yield on our common stock as market rates on interest-bearing securities, such as bonds, rise. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or increase our current dividend rate. As a REIT, we must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our shareholders, other than any net capital gain and excluding the retained earnings of our taxable REIT subsidiaries. We currently anticipate that our taxable REIT subsidiaries will retain most or all of their earnings and profits, which would make these earnings and profits unavailable for distribution to our shareholders. As a result, we may need to generate sufficient taxable income outside of our taxable REIT subsidiaries to maintain our current dividend rate. There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient taxable income to maintain this dividend rate or maintain our tax status as a REIT. 32 Table of Contents Loss of our 1940 Act exemption would adversely affect us and negatively affect the market price of our Class A common stock and the ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. We believe that we currently are not, and we intend to continue operating our company so that we will not become, regulated as an investment company under the 1940 Act, because we are “primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.” Specifically, we have invested, and intend to continue investing, at least 55% of our assets in mortgage loans or mortgage-backed securities that represent the entire ownership in a pool of mortgage loans and at least an additional 25% of our assets in mortgages, mortgage-backed securities, securities of REITs, and other real estate-related assets. If we fail to qualify for this exclusion from regulation under the 1940 Act, we could be required to restructure our activities. For example, if the market value of our investments in equity securities were to increase by an amount that resulted in less than 55% of our assets being invested in mortgage loans or mortgage-backed securities that represent the entire ownership in a pool of mortgage loans, we might have to sell equity securities in order to qualify for exclusion from regulation under the 1940 Act. The sale could occur under adverse market conditions. Each of our subsidiaries also qualifies for an exemption from regulation as an investment company under the 1940 Act. Failure to procure adequate capital and funding would adversely affect our results and may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our Class A common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. We depend upon the availability of adequate funding and capital for our operations. For example, we invest in mortgage-backed securities funded by short-term borrowings. In addition, our broker-dealer and financial services subsidiaries are dependent on the availability of adequate capital to satisfy applicable regulatory capital requirements. As a REIT, we are required to distribute annually at least 90% of our taxable income, other than any net capital gain and excluding taxable REIT subsidiary earnings, to our shareholders and are therefore not able to retain our earnings for new investments. However, our taxable REIT subsidiaries are able to retain (and likely will continue to retain) earnings for investment in new capital, subject to the various REIT requirements. We have historically satisfied our capital needs from equity contributions, internally generated funds and loans from third parties. We cannot assure you that any, or sufficient, funding or capital will continue to be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us. In the event that we cannot obtain sufficient funding on acceptable terms, there may be a negative impact on the market price of our Class A common stock and our ability to pay dividends. We face intense competition for personnel which could adversely affect our business and in turn negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Our businesses are dependent on the highly skilled, and often highly specialized, individuals we employ. Retention of specialists to manage our sub-prime mortgage originator subsidiary and our mortgage-backed securities portfolio, research analysts, private equity specialists, sales and trading personnel, investment banking personnel, asset management personnel, and technology, lending, management and administrative professionals are particularly important to our prospects. Competition for the recruiting and retention of employees may increase elements of our compensation costs. We cannot assure you that, in order to support our growth plans, we will be able to recruit and hire a sufficient number of new employees with the desired qualifications in a timely manner. We regularly review our compensation policies, including stock incentives. Nonetheless, our incentives may be insufficient in light of competition for experienced professionals in the investment industry, particularly if the value of our stock declines or fails to appreciate sufficiently to be a competitive source of a portion of professional compensation. Increased compensation costs could adversely affect the amount of cash available for distribution to shareholders and our failure to recruit and retain qualified employees could materially and adversely affect our future operating results. 33 Table of Contents We are dependent on a small number of key senior professionals and loss of the professionals could adversely affect our results and may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our Class A common stock and our ability to pay dividends. We generally do not have employment agreements with our senior officers and other key professionals. The loss of professionals, particularly a senior professional with a broad range of contacts in one of our businesses, could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our investment banking strategy is to establish relationships with prospective corporate clients in advance of any transaction, and to maintain these relationships by providing advisory services to corporate clients in equity, debt and merger and acquisition transactions. These relationships depend in part upon the individual employees who represent us in our dealings with our clients. From time to time, other companies in the investment industry have experienced losses of professionals in all areas of the investment business. The level of competition for key personnel includes competition from non-brokerage U.S. and foreign financial services companies, commercial banks, other investment banks and venture capital firms, all of which may target or increase their efforts in some of the same industries that we serve. In particular, we face competition for experienced research analysts, sales and trading personnel, and investment bankers of the type on which our business is highly dependent. We cannot assure you that losses of key personnel will not occur. We are highly dependent on systems and third parties, and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our Class A common stock and our ability to pay dividends. Our business is highly dependent on communications and information systems, including systems provided by our clearing brokers, for our mortgage brokers and borrowers and by and for other third parties. Any failure or interruption of our systems, the systems of our clearing brokers, mortgage brokers, loan servicers or third-party trading or information systems could cause delays or other problems in our securities trading activities, including mortgage-backed securities trading activities and mortgage loan origination and servicing capabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends. In addition, our clearing brokers provide elements of our principal disaster recovery system. We cannot assure you that we, our clearing brokers or our mortgage brokers will not suffer any systems failure or interruption, including one caused by a hurricane, earthquake, fire, other natural disaster, power or telecommunications failure, act of God, act of war, terrorist attack, pandemic or other emergency situation, or that we or our clearing brokers’ back-up procedures and capabilities in the event of any such failure or interruption will be adequate. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions could significantly harm our business. We may not be able to keep up with rapid technological change, which may adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock and our ability to pay dividends. There are significant technical and financial risks in the development of new services and products or enhanced versions of existing services and products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to: • develop or obtain the necessary technologies; • effectively use new technologies; • adapt our services and products to evolving industry standards; • develop, introduce and market in a profitable manner our services and products; or • enhance or create new services and products. If we are unable to develop and introduce enhanced or new services or products quickly enough to respond to market or customer requirements, or if we or our services and products do not achieve market acceptance, our 34 Table of Contents business, financial condition and operating results will be materially adversely affected and our cash available for distribution to stockholders may be negatively impacted. Indemnification agreements with our affiliates may increase the costs to us of litigation against our company. Our charter documents allow indemnification of our officers, directors and agents to the maximum extent permitted by Virginia law, as may the charter documents of our subsidiaries in their respective jurisdictions of incorporation. We have entered into indemnification agreements with these persons. We also have agreed to indemnify FBR Capital Markets against claims that relate to our capital markets businesses that we contributed to FBR Capital Markets prior to completion of the FBR Capital Markets 2006 private offering. In the future we may be the subject of indemnification assertions under these charter documents or agreements by our affiliates who are or may become defendants in litigation. Amounts paid pursuant to these indemnification agreements could adversely affect our financial results and the amount of cash available for distribution to stockholders. Risks Related to Investment Banking, Institutional Brokerage, Sales and Trading, Asset Management and Other Fee-Based Financial Services Businesses Operated by us through our Taxable REIT Subsidiaries We may be adversely affected by the general risks of the financial services and investment banking business. Through taxable REIT subsidiaries, including FBR & Co. (the primary broker-dealer subsidiary of FBR Capital Markets), we operate investment banking, trading, brokerage, asset management and other fee-based financial services businesses. The financial and investment business is, by its nature, subject to numerous and substantial risks, particularly in volatile or illiquid markets and in markets influenced by sustained periods of low or negative economic growth. As a financial services and investment banking firm, we and our operating results may be adversely affected by a number of factors, which include: • the risk of losses resulting from the ownership or underwriting of securities; • the risks of trading securities for our own account (i.e., principal activities) and for our customers; • reduced cash inflows from investors into asset management businesses; • the risk of losses from lending, including to small, privately-owned companies; • counterparty failure to meet commitments; • customer default and fraud; • customer complaints; • employee errors, misconduct and fraud (including unauthorized transactions by traders); • failures in connection with the processing of securities transactions; • litigation and arbitration; • the risks of reduced revenues in periods of reduced demand for public offerings or reduced activity in the secondary markets; and • the risk of reduced fees and commissions we receive for selling securities on behalf of our customers (i.e., underwriting spreads). Any one of these factors could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock and our ability to pay dividends. 35 Table of Contents We depend on relatively few industries to generate a significant percentage of our revenue, which may limit our revenues and net income and may adversely affect our operating results and negatively impact the market price of our common stock. We are dependent on revenues related to securities issued by companies in specific industry sectors. The consumer, diversified industrials, energy and natural resources, financial institutions, healthcare, insurance, real estate and TMT sectors account for the majority of our investment banking, asset management, institutional trading and research activities. Therefore, any downturn in the market for the securities of companies in these industry sectors, or factors affecting such companies, could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Additionally, the frequency and size of securities offerings can vary significantly from industry to industry due to economic, legislative, regulatory and political factors. Underwriting and other capital raising transactions, strategic advisory engagements and related trading activities in our core sectors represent a significant portion of our businesses. This concentration of activity exposes us to the risk of substantial declines in revenues in the event of downturns in our core sectors. For example, total public equity capital raised in our core sectors fell from $111.6 billion in 2004 to $103.2 billion in 2005, a decrease of 7.5%. The total number of public equity offerings in our core sectors also fell significantly, from 685 transactions in 2004 to 566 transactions in 2005, a decrease of 17.4%. Any future downturns in our core sectors could result in a decrease in the size or number of transactions we complete, which would reduce our investment banking revenues. We also derive a significant portion of our revenues from institutional sales and trading transactions related to the securities of companies in these sectors. Our revenues from such institutional sales and trading transactions may decline when underwriting activities in these industry sectors decline, the volume of trading on Nasdaq or the NYSE declines, or when industry sectors or individual companies report results below investors’ expectations. Our financial results may fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter, which may impair our stock price. We have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, significant quarterly variations in our revenues and results of operations. These variations may be attributed in part to the fact that our investment banking revenues are typically earned upon the successful completion of a transaction, the timing of which is uncertain and beyond our control. In most cases we receive little or no payment for investment banking engagements that do not result in the successful completion of a transaction. As a result, our business is highly dependent on market conditions as well as the decisions and actions of our clients and interested third parties. For example, our investment banking revenues for the third quarter of 2006 totaled $12.7 million, down from $89.1 million in the third quarter of 2005. In addition, a client’s securities offering may be delayed or terminated because of adverse market conditions, failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals or unexpected financial or other problems in the client’s business. If the parties fail to complete an offering in which we are participating as an underwriter or placement agent, we will earn little or no revenue from the transaction. This risk may be intensified by our focus on early-stage companies in certain sectors, as the market for securities of these companies may experience significant variations in the number and size of equity offerings as well as the after-market trading volume and prices of newly issued securities. Recently, more companies initiating the process of an initial public offering are simultaneously exploring M&A exit opportunities. Our investment banking revenues would be adversely affected in the event that an initial public offering for which we are acting as an underwriter is preempted by the company’s sale if we are not engaged as a strategic advisor in such sale. As a result, we are unlikely to achieve steady and predictable earnings on a quarterly basis, which could in turn adversely affect the price of our common stock. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation – Executive Summary.” 36 Table of Contents Our failure to acquire or internally develop the infrastructure needed to offer a complete range of M&A services could negatively affect the growth of our business. Our ability to expand our M&A business depends upon acquiring a platform from which to offer a complete range of M&A services or by expanding and enhancing the investment banking services we presently offer. We intend to incur increased costs to expand this business. Our failure to acquire or hire additional M&A professionals to offer additional M&A services or our failure to successfully integrate such M&A services into our existing business could have an adverse impact on our business. Furthermore, our failure to expand our M&A services capabilities to satisfy anticipated near-term demand in our core sectors may harm our growth prospects. Pricing and other competitive pressures may impair the revenues and profitability of our institutional brokerage business. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from our institutional brokerage business. Along with other firms, we have experienced intense price competition in this business in recent years. In particular, the ability to execute trades electronically and through alternative trading systems has increased the pressure on trading commissions and spreads. We expect pricing pressures in the business to continue. Decimalization in securities trading, introduced in 2000, has also reduced revenues and lowered margins within the equity sales and trading divisions of many firms, including ours. We believe we may experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by competing on the basis of price or use their own capital to facilitate client trading activities. In addition, we face pressure from our larger competitors, which may be better able to offer a broader range of complementary products and services to clients in order to win their trading business. If we are unable to compete effectively in these areas, the revenues from our sales and trading business may decline, and our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our research and institutional brokerage business may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations and industry practices. Changes in laws and regulations governing our institutional brokerage and research activities could also adversely affect our institutional brokerage and research business. For example, in July 2006, the SEC published interpretive guidance regarding the scope of permitted brokerage and research services in connection with “soft dollar” practices (i.e., arrangements under which an investment adviser directs client brokerage transactions to a broker in exchange for research products or services in addition to brokerage services) and solicited further public comment regarding soft dollar practices involving third party providers of research. The July 2006 SEC interpretive guidance may affect our institutional brokerage and research business and laws or regulations may prompt institutional brokerage customers to revisit or alter the manner in which they pay for research or brokerage services. Changes in industry practices may also adversely affect our results of operations. Historically, our clients have paid us for research through commissions on trades. Recently, Fidelity Investments has entered into arrangements with certain financial institutions of which it is a client, pursuant to which Fidelity Investments agreed to pay separately for trading and research services, a process known as “unbundling.” Previously, Fidelity Investments had, like other fund managers, paid for research from those financial institutions through the commissions that it had paid to those financial institutions for trading services. As a result, the financial institutions that have entered into unbundling arrangements with Fidelity Investments will charge lower commissions per trade but will receive separate compensation for research that they provide to Fidelity Investments. Currently, we are not a party to any unbundling arrangements. However, we cannot assure you that we will not be a party to any unbundling arrangements in the future. It is uncertain whether unbundling arrangements will become an industry trend, and if so, to what extent. Furthermore, we cannot predict the consequences on our business of these arrangements, nor can we predict the impact on our business if unbundling develops as an industry trend. If unbundling becomes prevalent, we cannot assure you that our institutional brokerage clients will also pay us separately for our research, or if they do, that our revenues from these clients will remain the same. If our clients wish to purchase sales and trading and research services separately, we cannot assure you that we will be able to market our services on that basis as effectively as some of our competitors, and our business consequently could be adversely affected. 37 Table of Contents We face strong competition from larger firms, some of which have greater resources and name recognition, which may impede our ability to grow our business. The brokerage and investment banking industries are intensely competitive and we expect them to remain so. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including client relationships, reputation, the abilities of our professionals, market focus and the relative quality and price of our services and products. We have experienced intense price competition in some of our businesses, in particular discounts in large block trades and trading commissions and spreads. In addition, pricing and other competitive pressures in investment banking, including the trends toward multiple book runners, co-managers and multiple financial advisors handling transactions, have continued and could adversely affect our revenues, even as the volume and number of investment banking transactions have started to increase. We believe we may experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by competing on the basis of price. Many of our competitors in the brokerage and investment banking industries have a broader range of products and services, greater financial and marketing resources, larger customer bases, greater name recognition, more senior professionals to serve their clients’ needs, greater global reach and more established relationships with clients than we have. These larger and better capitalized competitors may be better able to respond to changes in the brokerage and investment banking industries, to compete for skilled professionals, to finance acquisitions, to fund internal growth and to compete for market share generally. The scale of our competitors has increased in recent years as a result of substantial consolidation among companies in the brokerage and investment banking industries. In addition, a number of large commercial banks, insurance companies and other broad-based financial services firms have established or acquired underwriting or financial advisory practices and broker-dealers or have merged with other financial institutions. These firms have the ability to offer a wider range of products than we do, which may enhance their competitive position. They also have the ability to support investment banking with commercial banking, insurance and other financial services in an effort to gain market share, which has resulted, and could further result, in pricing pressure in our businesses. In particular, the ability to provide financing has become an important advantage for some of our larger competitors and, because we do not provide such financing, we may be unable to compete as effectively for clients in a significant part of the brokerage and investment banking market. If we are unable to compete effectively with our competitors, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our capital markets and strategic advisory engagements are singular in nature and our failure to capture repeat business from existing clients may harm our operating results. Our investment banking clients generally retain us on a short-term, engagement-by-engagement basis in connection with specific capital markets or mergers and acquisitions transactions, rather than on a recurring basis under long-term contracts. As these transactions are typically singular in nature and our engagements with these clients may not recur, we must continuously seek out new engagements when our current engagements are successfully completed or are terminated. As a result, high activity levels in any period are not necessarily indicative of continued high levels of activity in any subsequent period. If we are unable to generate a substantial number of new engagements that generate fees from the successful completion of transactions, our business and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. Larger and more frequent capital commitments in our trading, underwriting and other businesses increases the potential for us to incur significant losses. There is a trend toward larger and more frequent commitments of capital by financial services firms in many of their activities. For example, in order to win business, investment banks are increasingly committing to purchase large blocks of stock from publicly traded issuers or significant shareholders, instead of the more traditional marketed underwriting process, in which marketing is typically completed before an investment bank commits to purchase securities for resale. With the increased capital available to us from our 2006 private offering, we may undertake more block trades in the future. As a result, we will be subject to increased risk as we commit greater amounts of capital to facilitate primarily client-driven business and, therefore, may suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for others in the industry. 38 Table of Contents Although we have historically not engaged in proprietary trading, we may engage in proprietary trading in the future to maintain trading positions in the fixed income and equity markets. We may enter into large transactions in which we commit our own capital as part of our client trading activities. The number and size of these large transactions may materially affect our results of operations in a given period. We may also incur significant losses from our trading activities due to market fluctuations and volatility in our results of operations. To the extent that we own assets, i.e., have long positions, in any of those markets, a downturn in the value of those assets or in those markets could result in losses. Conversely, to the extent we have sold assets we do not own, i.e., have short positions, in any of those markets, an upturn in those markets could expose us to potentially large losses as we attempt to cover our short positions by acquiring assets in a rising market. Limitations on our access to capital could impair our liquidity and our ability to conduct our businesses. Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to financial services firms. Failures of financial institutions have often been attributable in large part to insufficient liquidity. Liquidity is of particular importance to our trading business and perceived liquidity issues may affect our clients’ and counterparties’ willingness to engage in brokerage transactions with us. Our liquidity could be impaired due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects our trading clients, third parties or us. Further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to sell similar assets at the same time. FBR & Co., which is a domestic registered broker-dealer, is subject to the net capital requirements of the SEC and various self-regulatory organizations of which it is a member. These requirements typically specify the minimum level of net capital a broker-dealer must maintain and also mandate that a significant part of its assets be kept in relatively liquid form. FBRIL, which is a registered broker-dealer in the United Kingdom, is also subject to the capital requirements of the United Kingdom Financial Services Authority, or FSA. Any failure to comply with these net capital requirements could impair our ability to conduct our core business as a brokerage firm. Furthermore, FBR & Co. and FBRIL are subject to laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from them to us. As a holding company, we will depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, including debt obligations. As a result, regulatory actions could impede access to funds that we need to make payments on our obligations, including debt obligations. Our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could harm our business. Our risk management strategies and techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. We are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure, breach of contract or other reasons. We are also subject to the risk that our rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. Although we regularly review credit exposures to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. In addition, concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us. If any of the variety of instruments, processes and strategies we utilize to manage our exposure to various types of risk are not effective, we may incur losses. 39 Table of Contents Strategic investments or acquisitions and joint ventures may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our business. We intend to grow our core businesses through both internal expansion and through strategic investments, acquisitions or joint ventures. To the extent we make strategic investments or acquisitions or enter into joint ventures, we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with customers and business partners. In the case of joint ventures, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. In addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and our joint venture partners may negatively impact our businesses. To the extent that we pursue business opportunities outside the United States, we will be subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in a foreign country, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities. In many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. Our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular foreign market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. We are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in the relevant jurisdictions. We have potential conflicts of interest with our executive officers and employees which could result in decisions that are not in your best interests. From time to time, our executive officers and employees may invest in private or public companies in which we, or one of our affiliates, is or could potentially be an investor or for which we carry out investment banking assignments, publish research or act as a market maker. In addition, we have in the past and will likely in the future organize businesses, such as our hedge, private equity and venture capital funds, in which our employees may acquire minority interests or profit interests. There are risks that, as a result of such investment or profit interest, an executive officer or employee may have incentives to take actions that would conflict with our best interests. We believe that we have in place compliance procedures and practices designed to monitor the activities of our executive officers and employees in this regard, but we cannot guarantee that these procedures and practices will be effective. Our business is dependent on cash inflows to mutual funds and other pooled investment vehicles, which could result in our experiencing operating losses if cash flows slow, and negatively impact cash available for distribution to shareholders. A slowdown or reversal of cash inflows to mutual funds and other pooled investment vehicles could lead to lower underwriting and brokerage revenues for us since mutual funds and other pooled investment vehicles purchase a significant portion of the securities offered in public offerings underwritten by FBR & Co. and subsequently traded in the secondary markets. Demand for new equity offerings has been driven in part by institutional investors, particularly large mutual funds and hedge funds, seeking to invest on behalf of their investors. Our brokerage business is particularly dependent on the institutional market. The public may redeem mutual funds as a result of a decline in the market generally or as a result of a decline in mutual fund net asset values. To the extent that a decline in cash inflows into mutual funds reduces demand by fund managers for initial public or secondary offerings, FBR and our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Moreover, a slowdown in investment activity by mutual funds may have an adverse effect on the securities markets generally. Such environments may adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock and our ability to pay dividends. 40 Table of Contents Significantly expanded corporate governance and public disclosure requirements may result in fewer initial public offerings and distract existing public companies from engaging in capital market transactions which may reduce the number of investment banking opportunities available to pursue. Highly-publicized financial scandals in recent years have led to investor concerns over the integrity of the U.S. financial markets, and have prompted Congress, the SEC, the NYSE and Nasdaq to significantly expand corporate governance and public disclosure requirements. To the extent that private companies, in order to avoid becoming subject to these new requirements, decide to forgo initial public offerings, our equity underwriting business may be adversely affected. In addition, provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the corporate governance rules imposed by self-regulatory organizations have diverted many companies’ attention away from capital market transactions, including securities offerings and acquisition and disposition transactions. In particular, companies that are or are planning to be public are incurring significant expenses in complying with the SEC and accounting standards relating to internal control over financial reporting, and companies that disclose material weaknesses in such controls under the new standards may have greater difficulty accessing the capital markets. These factors, in addition to adopted or proposed accounting and disclosure changes, may have an adverse effect on our business. Financial services firms have been subject to increased scrutiny over the last several years, increasing the risk of financial liability and reputational harm resulting from adverse regulatory actions. Firms in the financial services industry have been operating in a difficult regulatory environment. The industry has experienced increased scrutiny from a variety of regulators, including the SEC, the NYSE, the NASD and state attorneys general. Penalties and fines sought by regulatory authorities have increased substantially over the last several years. This regulatory and enforcement environment has created uncertainty with respect to a number of transactions that had historically been entered into by financial services firms and that were generally believed to be permissible and appropriate. We may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. We also may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the SEC, other United States or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets. Among other things, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities or subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business prospects. In addition, financial services firms are subject to numerous conflicts of interests or perceived conflicts. The SEC and other federal and state regulators have increased their scrutiny of potential conflicts of interest. We have adopted various policies, controls and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts and regularly seek to review and update our policies, controls and procedures. However, appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. Our policies and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts may also result in increased costs, additional operational personnel and increased regulatory risk. Failure to adhere to these policies and procedures may result in regulatory sanctions or client litigation. For example, the research areas of investment banks have been and remain the subject of heightened regulatory scrutiny which has led to increased restrictions on the interaction between equity research analysts and investment banking personnel at securities firms. Our exposure to legal liability is significant, and damages that we may be required to pay and the reputational harm that could result from legal action against us could materially adversely affect our businesses. We face significant legal risks in our businesses and, in recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions have been increasing. These risks include potential liability under securities or other laws for materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities offerings and other transactions, potential liability for “fairness opinions” and other 41 Table of Contents advice we provide to participants in strategic transactions and disputes over the terms and conditions of complex trading arrangements. We are also subject to claims arising from disputes with employees for alleged discrimination or harassment, among other things. As a brokerage and investment banking firm, we depend to a large extent on our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain clients. As a result, if a client is not satisfied with our services, it may be more damaging in our business than in other businesses. Moreover, our role as advisor to our clients on important underwriting or mergers and acquisitions transactions involves complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment, including rendering “fairness opinions” in connection with mergers and other transactions. Therefore, our activities may subject us to the risk of significant legal liabilities to our clients and aggrieved third parties, including shareholders of our clients who could bring securities class actions against us. Our investment banking engagements typically include broad indemnities from our clients and provisions to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services, but these provisions may not protect us or may not be enforceable in all cases. As a result, we may incur significant legal and other expenses in defending against litigation and may be required to pay substantial damages for settlements and adverse judgments. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business and prospects. Employee misconduct could harm us and is difficult to detect and deter. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur at our company. For example, misconduct by employees could involve the improper use or disclosure of confidential information, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases, and we may suffer significant reputational harm for any misconduct by our employees. Risks Related to our Principal Investing Activities Declines in the market values of our mortgage-backed securities and other investments may adversely affect periodic reported results and credit availability, which may reduce earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to our stockholders. A substantial portion of our assets are investments in mortgage-backed securities and other investment securities. Most of those assets are classified for accounting purposes as “available-for-sale.” Changes in the market values of those assets will be directly charged or credited to stockholders’ equity. As a result, a decline in market value of our MBS portfolio and other investment securities may reduce the book value of our assets. Moreover, if the decline in value of an available-for-sale security is other than temporary, such decline will reduce earnings, as will a decline in the value of securities not classified as available-for-sale for accounting purposes. A decline in the market value of our assets may adversely affect us particularly in instances where we have borrowed money based on the market value of those assets. If the market value of those assets declines, the lender may require us to post additional collateral to support the loan. If we were unable to post the additional collateral, we would have to sell the assets at a time when we might not otherwise choose to do so. A reduction in credit available may reduce our earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to shareholders. Use of leverage could adversely affect our operations, particularly with respect to our mortgage-related assets portfolio and negatively affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Using debt to finance the purchase of mortgage-backed securities and other investment securities and origination and acquisition of mortgage loans will expose us to the risk that margin calls will be made and that 42 Table of Contents we will not be able to meet those margin calls. To meet margin calls, we may sell the applicable mortgage-related securities or mortgage loans and such sales could result in realized losses, and negatively affect cash available for distribution to our shareholders. While it is not our current policy to leverage our equity securities or loan investments, if we were to leverage these investments, this leverage could expose us to the risk that margin calls will be made and that we will not be able to meet them. A leveraged company’s income and net assets will tend to increase or decrease at a greater rate than if borrowed money were not used. We enter into repurchase agreements to finance our MBS and other mortgage related investments, which can amplify the effect of a decline in value resulting from an interest rate increase. For example, assume that we finance $96 million of MBS through repurchase agreements to acquire $100 million of 8% mortgage-backed securities. If prevailing interest rates increase from 8% to 9%, the value of the mortgage-backed securities may decline to a level below the amount required to be maintained under the terms of the repurchase agreements. If the mortgage-backed securities were then sold, we would have to transfer additional assets to secure the borrowings. Changes in interest rates could negatively affect the value of our mortgage-backed securities, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We invest directly in mortgage loans through origination and acquisition of such loans and indirectly in mortgage loans by purchasing mortgage-backed securities and we currently intend to continue this investment strategy. Under a normal yield curve, an investment in mortgage-backed securities will decline in value if long-term interest rates increase. Despite Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae guarantees of the agency-backed mortgage-backed securities we own, those guarantees do not protect us from declines in market value caused by changes in interest rates. Declines in market value may ultimately reduce earnings or result in losses to us, which may negatively affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders. A significant risk associated with our portfolio of mortgage-related assets is the risk that both long-term and short-term interest rates will increase significantly. If long-term rates were to increase significantly, the market value of these mortgage-backed securities would decline and the weighted average life of the investments would increase. We have realized a loss in 2005, and could realize a loss in the future if the mortgage-backed securities were sold. At the same time, an increase in short-term interest rates would increase the amount of interest owed on the repurchase agreements we enter into in order to finance the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. See “Item 1—Business—Recent Developments.” Market values of mortgage-backed securities may decline without any general increase in interest rates for a number of reasons, such as increases in defaults, increases in voluntary prepayments and widening of credit spreads. In addition, changes in interest rates may impact some our merchant banking equity investments in non-conforming mortgage loan originators and other companies whose business models are sensitive to interest rates. An increase in our borrowing costs relative to the interest we receive on our mortgage-related assets may adversely affect our profitability, which may negatively affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders. As our repurchase agreements and other short-term borrowing instruments mature, we will be required either to enter into new repurchase agreements or to sell a portion of our mortgage-related assets or other investment securities. An increase in short-term interest rates at the time that we seek to enter into new 43 Table of Contents repurchase agreements would reduce the spread between our returns on our mortgage-related assets and the cost of our borrowings. This change in interest rates would adversely affect our returns on our mortgage-related assets portfolio, which might reduce earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Prepayment rates could negatively affect the value of our mortgage-backed securities, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In the case of residential mortgage loans, there are seldom any restrictions on borrowers’ abilities to prepay their loans. Homeowners tend to prepay mortgage loans faster when interest rates decline. Consequently, owners of the loans have to reinvest the money received from the prepayments at the lower prevailing interest rates. Conversely, homeowners tend not to prepay mortgage loans when interest rates increase. Consequently, owners of the loans are unable to reinvest money that would have otherwise been received from prepayments at the higher prevailing interest rates. This volatility in prepayment rates may affect our ability to maintain targeted amounts of leverage on our mortgage-based securities portfolio and may result in reduced earnings or losses for us and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Despite Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae guarantees of principal and interest related to the agency-backed MBS we own, those guarantees do not protect us against prepayment risks. Rapid changes in the values of our mortgage-backed securities and other real estate assets may make it more difficult for us to maintain our REIT status or exemption from the 1940 Act. If the market value or income potential of our mortgage-backed securities and mezzanine loans declines as a result of increased interest rates, prepayment rates or other factors, we may need to increase our real estate investments and income and/or liquidate our non-qualifying assets in order to maintain our REIT status or exemption from the 1940 Act. If the decline in real estate asset values and/or income occurs quickly, this may be especially difficult to accomplish. This difficulty may be exacerbated by the illiquid nature of many of our non-real estate assets. We may have to make investment decisions that we otherwise would not make absent the REIT and 1940 Act considerations. Hedging against interest rate exposure may adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our shareholders. We have entered into and may enter into interest rate swap agreements or pursue other hedging strategies. Our hedging activity will vary in scope based on the level and volatility of interest rates and principal prepayments, the type of mortgage-backed securities held, and other changing market conditions. Interest rate hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things: • interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates; • available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought; • the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability; • the amount of income that a REIT may earn from hedging transactions to offset interest rate losses is limited by federal tax provisions governing REITs; • the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; and • the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay. Our hedging activity may adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders. 44 Table of Contents Our assets may include mezzanine or senior unsecured loans that may have greater risks of loss than secured senior loans and if those losses are realized, it could adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Our assets may include mezzanine or senior unsecured loans that involve a higher degree of risk than long-term senior secured loans. First, the loans may not be secured by mortgages or liens on assets. Even if secured, these loans may have higher loan-to-value ratios than a senior secured loan. Furthermore, our right to payment and the security interest may be subordinated to the payment rights and security interests of the senior lender. Therefore, we may be limited in our ability to enforce our rights to collect these loans and to recover any of the loan balance through a foreclosure of collateral. Our loans may have an interest only payment schedule, with the principal amount remaining outstanding and at risk until the maturity of the loan. In this case, a borrower’s ability to repay its loan may be dependent upon a liquidity event that will enable the repayment of the loan. In addition to the above, numerous other factors may affect a company’s ability to repay its loan, including the failure to meet its business plan, a downturn in its industry or negative economic conditions. A deterioration in a company’s financial condition and prospects may be accompanied by deterioration in the collateral for the loan. Losses in our loans could adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Loans that we may make to highly leveraged companies may have a greater risk of loss which, in turn, could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Leverage may have material adverse consequences to the companies to which we may make loans in connection with our Merchant Banking business and to us as an investor in these companies. These companies may be subject to restrictive financial and operating covenants. The leverage may impair these companies’ ability to finance their future operations and capital needs. As a result, these companies’ flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to business opportunities may be limited. A leveraged company’s income and net assets will tend to increase or decrease at a greater rate than if borrowed money were not used. As a result, leveraged companies have a greater risk of loss. Losses on such loans could adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Our due diligence may not reveal all of a portfolio company’s liabilities and may not reveal other weaknesses in a portfolio company’s business. Before making an investment in a business entity, we assess the strength and skills of the entity’s management and other factors that we believe will determine the success of the investment. In making the assessment and otherwise conducting customary due diligence, we rely on the resources available to us and, in some cases, an investigation by third parties. This process is particularly important and subjective with respect to newly-organized entities because there may be little or no information publicly available about the companies. We cannot assure you that our due diligence processes will uncover all relevant facts or that any investment will be successful. Any unsuccessful investment may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on management and have limited ability to influence management of portfolio companies. We generally do not control the management, investment decisions or operations of the enterprises in which we have investments. Management of those enterprises may decide to change the nature of their assets or business plan, or management may otherwise change in a manner that is not satisfactory to us. We typically have no ability to affect these management decisions, and as noted below, may have only limited ability to dispose of these investments. 45 Table of Contents We may make investments that have limited liquidity, which may reduce the return on those investments to our stockholders. The equity securities of a new publicly-held or privately-held entity in which we invest are likely to be restricted as to resale and may otherwise be highly illiquid. We expect that there will be restrictions on our ability to resell the securities of any private or newly-public company that we acquire for a period of at least one year after we acquire those securities. In addition, applicable REIT tax provisions may cause sales of certain assets to be disadvantageous. Thereafter, a public market sale may be subject to volume limitations or dependent upon securing a registration statement for a secondary offering of the securities. The securities of newly-public entities may trade less frequently and in smaller volume than securities of companies that are more widely held and have more established trading patterns. Sales of these securities may cause their values to fluctuate more sharply. Because we will make investments through an affiliate of FBR & Co., a registered broker-dealer in the U.S., and FBRIL, a registered broker-dealer in the United Kingdom, our ability to invest in companies may be constrained by applicable securities laws and regulations and the rules of the NASD and similar self-regulatory organizations. FBR & Co.’s investment and trading activities are regulated by the SEC, the NASD and other governmental authorities, and FBRIL’s investment and trading activities are regulated by similar regulatory authorities in the United Kingdom. As a result, the rules of the SEC, the NASD and other governmental authorities may limit our ability to invest in the securities of companies whose securities are underwritten or privately placed by our broker-dealer affiliates. Prices of the equity securities of new entities in which we invest may be volatile. We may make investments that are significant relative to the portfolio company’s overall capitalization, and resales of significant amounts of these securities might adversely affect the market and the sales price for the securities. The short- and medium-term loans we make are based, in part, upon our knowledge of the borrower and its industry. In addition, we do not yet nor may we ever have a significant enough portfolio of loans to easily sell them to a third party. As a result, these loans are and may continue to be highly illiquid. Disposition value of investments is dependent upon general and specific market conditions which could result in a decline of the value of the investments. Even if we make an appropriate investment decision based on the intrinsic value of an enterprise, we cannot assure you that the trading market value of the investment will not decline, perhaps materially, as a result of general market conditions. For example, an increase in interest rates, a general decline in the stock markets, or other market conditions adverse to companies of the type in which we invest could result in a decline in the value of our investments. The market for investment opportunities is competitive, which could make it difficult for us to purchase or originate investments at attractive yields, which could have an adverse effect on cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We gain access to investment opportunities only to the extent that they become known to us. Gaining access to investment opportunities is highly competitive. We compete with other companies that have greater capital, more long-standing relationships, broader product offerings and other advantages. Competitors include, but are not limited to, business development companies, small business investment companies, commercial lenders and mezzanine funds and other broker-dealers. Increased competition would make it more difficult for us to purchase or originate investments at attractive yields, which could have an adverse effect on cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We may incur losses as a result of our sector investment activities, which could negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our investments are made primarily through funds which we manage and funds which a third party acts as a manager. These funds may invest in companies in the early stages of their development or in industry sectors that are historically volatile, such as technology or sub-prime mortgage issuers. Our business and prospects must be 46 Table of Contents considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in early stages of development, particularly companies in new and rapidly evolving markets. Moreover, these funds may invest in privately held companies as to which little public information is available. Accordingly, we depend on these fund managers to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from investing in these companies. Fund managers may or may not be successful in this task. Also, these companies frequently have less diverse product lines and smaller market presence than large competitors. They are thus generally more vulnerable to economic downturns and may experience substantial variations in operating results. Moreover, many of these portfolio companies will require additional equity funding to satisfy their continuing working capital requirements. Because of the circumstances of those companies or market conditions, it is possible that one or more of these portfolio companies will not be able to raise additional financing or may be able to do so only at a price or on terms that are unfavorable to them. Adverse returns with respect to these technology sector investment activities could adversely affect us and our operating results, which could negatively affect the market price of our Class A common stock and our ability to pay dividends. Risks Related to our Non-Conforming Residential Mortgage Loan Origination Business Recent increased delinquencies and losses with respect to residential mortgage loans, particularly in the sub-prime sector, may cause our First NLC subsidiary to recognize increased losses, which would adversely affect our consolidated operating results. You should note that the residential mortgage market has recently encountered difficulties which may adversely affect the performance of our First NLC subsidiary. In recent months, delinquencies and losses with respect to residential mortgage loans generally have increased and may continue to increase, particularly in the sub-prime sector. In addition, in recent months residential property values in many states have declined or remained stable, after extended periods during which those values appreciated. A continued decline or a lack of increase in those values may result in additional increases in delinquencies and losses on residential mortgage loans generally, especially with respect to second homes and investor properties, and with respect to any residential mortgage loans where the aggregate loan amounts (including any subordinate loans) are close to or greater than the related property values. Another factor that may have contributed to, and may in the future result in, higher delinquency rates is the increase in monthly payments on adjustable rate mortgage loans. Any increase in prevailing market interest rates may result in increased payments for borrowers who have adjustable rate mortgage loans. Moreover, with respect to hybrid mortgage loans after their initial fixed rate period, and with respect to mortgage loans with a negative amortization feature which reach their negative amortization cap, borrowers may experience a substantial increase in their monthly payment even without an increase in prevailing market interest rates. In addition, several residential mortgage loan originators who originate sub-prime loans have recently experienced serious financial difficulties and, in some cases, bankruptcy. Those difficulties have resulted in part from declining markets for their mortgage loans as well as from claims for repurchases of mortgage loans previously sold under provisions that require repurchase in the event of early payment defaults and for breaches of other representations regarding loan quality. The inability to repurchase such loans in the event of early payment defaults and other loan representation breaches may also affect the performance of any securities backed by those loans. These general market conditions may adversely affect the performance of First NLC. Our non-conforming residential mortgage loans are secured by interests in real property and we may suffer a loss if the value of any of the underlying properties declines. The mortgage loans we originate and acquire are secured by interests in real property. If the value of the property underlying a mortgage loan decreases, our risk of loss with respect to the mortgage loan increases. In the event there is a default under a mortgage loan, our sole recourse may be to foreclose on the mortgage loan to 47 Table of Contents recover the outstanding amount under the mortgage loan. If the value of the property is lower than the amount of the mortgage loan, we would suffer a loss. If the losses are significant enough, they could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. The geographic concentration of our mortgage loan originations and acquisitions increases our exposure to risks in those areas, especially California. Over-concentration of our mortgage loan originations and acquisitions in any one geographic area increases our exposure to the economic and natural hazard risks associated with that area. For example, in the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, approximately 17% of the aggregate principal amount of the mortgage loans that we originate were secured by property located in California. Certain parts of California have experienced an economic downturn in the past and have suffered the effects of certain natural hazards. Declines in the residential real estate markets in which we are concentrated may reduce the values of the properties collateralizing our mortgage loans, increase the risk of delinquency, foreclosure, bankruptcy, or losses and could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. Furthermore, if borrowers are not insured for natural disasters, which are typically not covered by standard hazard insurance policies, they may not be able to repair the property or may stop paying their mortgages if the property is damaged. A natural disaster that results in a significant number of delinquencies would cause increased foreclosures and decrease our ability to recover losses on properties affected by such disasters and would harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. We originate and acquire loans in jurisdictions which may suffer the effects of natural disasters. Likewise, the secondary market pricing for pools of loans that are not geographically diverse is typically less favorable than for a diverse pool. Our inability to originate or purchase geographically diverse pools of loans could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. We are subject to increased risk of default, foreclosure and losses associated with our strategy of focusing on non-conforming mortgage loan originations and acquisitions. We are an originator and acquirer in the single-family, non-conforming, residential mortgage market, which means that we and the originators from which we acquire loans focus marketing efforts on borrowers who may be unable to obtain mortgage financing from conventional mortgage origination sources because they do not satisfy the loan amount limitations, credit, collateral, documentation or other underwriting standards prescribed by conventional mortgage sources. A significant number of the loans we originate or acquire are to borrowers with derogatory credit items including delinquent mortgage payments, civil judgments, bankruptcies and foreclosures. These non-conforming loans generally involve a higher risk of delinquency, foreclosure and losses than loans made to prime borrowers. Delinquency interrupts the flow of projected interest income from a mortgage loan, and default can ultimately lead to a loss if the net realizable value of the real property securing the mortgage loan is insufficient to cover the principal and interest due on the loan. Also, our cost of financing and servicing a delinquent or defaulted loan is generally higher than for a performing loan. We generally bear the risk of delinquency and default on loans beginning when we originate them. In whole loan sales, our risk of delinquency typically only extends to prepayment or early payment defaults, but when we securitize a mortgage loan, we continue to bear some exposure to delinquencies and losses through our over-collateralization obligations and the loans underlying our on-balance sheet securitization transactions. We also re-acquire the risks of delinquency and default for loans that we are obligated to repurchase. As a result, we will need to establish allowances based on the amount of the anticipated delinquencies and losses on our mortgage loans. In addition, our mortgage loan underwriting standards do not prohibit our borrowers from obtaining secondary financing at the time of origination of our first lien mortgage loans (or at any time thereafter). Secondary financing would reduce a borrower’s equity in the mortgaged property compared to the amount indicated in our loan- to-value ratio determination at the time we made our credit decision, thereby increasing the risk of default on the loan. We 48 Table of Contents attempt to manage these risks with risk-based loan pricing and appropriate underwriting policies and loan collection methods. However, if such policies and methods are insufficient to control our delinquency and default risks and do not result in appropriate loan pricing and appropriate allowance for loss allowances, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may underestimate the default risk of, and therefore under-price, the non-conforming mortgage loans that we originate or acquire. There can be no assurance that the criteria and methods, such as our proprietary credit scoring models, risk-based mortgage loan pricing and other underwriting procedures and guidelines and loan collection methods, that we employ to manage the risks associated with non-conforming mortgage loan borrowers who have negative credit characteristics will be effective to manage the risk of mortgage loan default. If we were to underestimate the default risk of, or under-price, the non-conforming mortgage loans that we originate, our results of operations would be adversely affected, possibly to a material degree. The residential mortgage loan origination business is a cyclical industry, and is expected to decline in 2007 and subsequent years, which could reduce our current levels of non-conforming mortgage loan originations and our ability to generate net income in the future. The residential mortgage origination business historically has been a cyclical industry, enjoying periods of strong growth and profitability followed by periods of shrinking volumes and industry-wide losses. The residential mortgage industry has experienced rapid growth in the past largely due to historically low interest rates. The Mortgage Bankers Association of America has predicted that total residential mortgage originations, which include both conforming and non-conforming mortgage loans, will decrease in 2007 relative to the 2004 and 2005 levels due to stable or rising interest rates. During periods of rising interest rates, rate and term refinancing originations decrease, as higher interest rates provide reduced economic incentives for borrowers to refinance their existing mortgages. Our historical performance may not be indicative of results in a rising interest rate environment, and our results of operations may be materially adversely affected if interest rates rise. In addition, our recent and rapid growth may distort some of our ratios and financial statistics and may make period-to-period comparisons difficult. In light of this growth and our change in business strategy, among other factors, our historical performance and operating and origination data may be of little relevance in predicting our future performance. We face intense competition that could adversely affect our market share and our revenues. We face intense competition from finance, investment banking and mortgage banking companies, other mortgage REITs, Internet-based lending companies for which entry barriers are relatively low, and, to a growing extent, from traditional bank and thrift lenders that have entered the mortgage industry. As we seek to expand our business further, we will face a significant number of additional competitors, that may be well established in the markets we desire to penetrate. Some of our competitors are much larger than we are, have better name recognition than we do and have far greater financial and other resources than we do. Further, we compete with federally chartered institutions and their operating subsidiaries that also operate in a multi-state market environment. Federal statutes and rules governing federally chartered banks and thrifts allow those entities to engage in mortgage lending in multiple states on a substantially uniform basis and without the need to comply with state licensing and other laws (including new state “predatory lending” laws) affecting mortgage lenders. Federal regulators have expressed their position that these preemption provisions benefit mortgage subsidiaries of federally chartered institutions, as well. In January 2004, the Comptroller of the Currency finalized preemption rules that confirm and expand the scope of this federal preemption for national banks and their operating subsidiaries. Such federal preemption rules and interpretations generally have been upheld in the courts. In addition, such federally chartered institutions and their operating subsidiaries have defenses under federal law to allegations of noncompliance with such state and local laws that are unavailable to 49 Table of Contents us. Moreover, at least one national rating agency has announced that, in recognition of the benefits of federal preemption, it will not require additional credit enhancement by federal institutions when they issue securities backed by mortgages from a state with predatory lending laws. As a non-federal entity, we will continue to be subject to such rating agency requirements arising from state or local lending-related laws or regulations. Accordingly, as a mortgage lender that is generally subject to the laws of each state in which we do business, except as may specifically be provided in federal rules applicable to all lenders (such as the Fair Credit Reporting Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act or Truth in Lending Act), unlike those competitors, we are generally subject to all state and local laws applicable to mortgage lenders in each jurisdiction where we lend, including new laws directed at non-conforming mortgage lending, as described below under “Business—Government Regulation.” This disparity may have the effect of giving those federal entities legal and competitive advantages. In addition to finance, investment banking and mortgage banking companies, other mortgage REITs, Internet-based lending companies, traditional banks and thrift lenders, government-sponsored entities such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are expanding their participation in the mortgage industry. These government-sponsored entities have a size and cost-of-funds advantage that allows them to purchase loans with lower rates or fees than we are able to offer. While these entities are not legally authorized to originate mortgage loans, they do have the authority to buy loans. A material expansion of their involvement in the market to purchase non-prime loans could change the dynamics of the industry by virtue of their sheer size, pricing power and the inherent advantages of a government charter. In addition, if as a result of their purchasing practices Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac experiences significantly higher-than-expected losses, these losses could adversely affect the overall investor perception of the non-prime mortgage industry. The intense competition in the mortgage industry has also led to rapid technological developments, evolving industry standards and frequent releases of new products and enhancements. As mortgage products are offered more widely through alternative distribution channels, such as the Internet, we may be required to make significant changes to our current wholesale and retail origination structure and information systems to compete effectively. An inability to continue enhancing our current systems and Internet capabilities, or to adapt to other technological changes in the industry, could significantly harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Competition in the mortgage industry can take many forms, affecting interest rates and costs of a loan, stringency of underwriting standards, convenience in obtaining a loan, customer service, loan amounts and loan terms and marketing and distribution channels. The need to maintain mortgage loan volume in a competitive environment may create price competition, which could cause us to lower the interest rates that we charge borrowers and could lower the value of our mortgage loans held for sale or retained in our investment portfolio, or credit competition, which could cause us to adopt less stringent underwriting standards. The combination of price competition and credit competition could result in greater loan risk without compensating pricing. If we do not address either or both of these competitive pressures in response to our competitors, we may lose market share, reduce the volume of our mortgage loan originations and sales and significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The expected cyclical decline in the mortgage industry’s overall level of originations may lead to increased competition for the remaining loans. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to compete effectively in the markets we serve and our results of operations, financial condition and business could also be materially adversely affected to the extent our competitors significantly expand their activities in our markets. The poor performance of a pool of mortgage loans we securitize could increase the expense of our subsequent securitizations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business. The poor performance of a pool of mortgage loans that we securitize could increase the expense of any subsequent securitizations we bring to market. Increased expenses on our securitizations could reduce the net 50 Table of Contents interest income we receive on our investment portfolio. A change in the market’s demand for our mortgage-backed securities or a decline in the securitization market generally could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. Our ability to generate net interest income from the mortgage loans we retain in our portfolio is dependent upon the success of our portfolio-based model of securitizations, which is subject to several risks. We expect to generate a portion of our earnings and cash flow from the net interest income earned on the mortgage loans we originate, securitize in non-REMIC securitizations and retain in our investment portfolio. A substantial portion of the net interest income generated by these securitized loans will be based upon the difference, or spread, between the weighted average interest earned on the mortgage loans held in our investment portfolio and the interest payable to holders of the asset-backed securities we issue in our securitizations. The interest expense on the asset-backed securities is typically adjusted monthly relative to market interest rates. Because the interest expense associated with the asset-backed securities typically adjusts faster than the interest income from the mortgage loans, the net interest income derived from our spread can be volatile and decrease in response to changes in interest rates. Also, the net interest income we receive from our investment portfolio of mortgage loans will likely decrease and our cash flow will be reduced if there are defaults on a significant number of our loans or if a large number of loans prepay prior to their scheduled maturities. The effects will be magnified if the defaults or prepayments occur with respect to mortgage loans with interest rates that are high relative to the rest of our loans. In connection with the securitization of the mortgage loans held in our portfolio, we may issue senior securities with various ratings that are priced at a spread over an identified benchmark rate, such as the yield on U.S. Treasury bonds, interest rate swaps or LIBOR. If the spread that investors demand over the benchmark rate widens and the rates we charge on our loans are not commensurately increased, our spread may be compressed and we may experience a material adverse effect on the net interest income from our securitizations and therefore experience a reduction in the economic value of the pool of mortgage loans in our investment portfolio. Our portfolio-based model is based on our expectation that the interest income we receive from the mortgage loans held in our investment portfolio will exceed the interest expense of the debt we incur to finance those loans. In other words, we expect to increase our net earnings by using debt to “leverage” our return on equity. However, our investment portfolio income is at risk for the expense of repaying our debt as well as for the performance of the loans. This is true both for the short-term financing we use prior to securitization and for the securitization debt that we incur as long-term financing of our mortgage loans held for investment. We are subject to two risks during the period our loans held for investment are financed with short-term borrowings that we are not subject to relative to our securitization debt: first, we may be required to make additional payments to our lenders (known as “margin calls”) relative to our short-term financing if the lenders determine that the market value of the mortgage loans they hold as collateral has declined, which could happen at any time as a result of increases in market interest rates; and second, we are obligated to repay the entire amount of the debt, without limitation, regardless of the value of the mortgage loans. If we are required to make margin call payments to our lenders, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. On the other hand, our securitization debt will be long-term structured debt on which we never have margin calls and are at risk only for the amount we have invested in the loans, that is, the funded amount of the loans, pledged to secure the mortgage-backed securities we issue. We generally will not be obligated to repay the holders of our securitized debt if the mortgage loans pledged to secure the mortgage-backed securities we have issued default and there is not enough cash from the mortgage loans to pay the mortgage-backed securities as they become due. We will rely upon our ability to securitize the mortgage loans held in our investment portfolio to generate cash proceeds for repayment of our warehouse lines and repurchase facilities and to originate additional mortgage loans. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be successful in securitizing these loans. In the 51 Table of Contents event that it is not possible or economical for us to complete the securitization of our mortgage loans, we may continue to hold these loans and bear the risks of interest rate changes and loan defaults and delinquencies, which may cause us to exceed our capacity under our warehouse lines and repurchase facilities and be unable or limited in our ability to originate future mortgage loans, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we determine that we should sell all or part of our loans rather than securitizing them, there could be significant adverse effects on our net income and stockholder distributions as a result of federal corporate income tax that would be imposed on gains from such sales which would be made through our taxable REIT subsidiary, FNLC Financial Services, Inc. We may incur additional losses in our securitized mortgage loan portfolio As of September 30, 2006, the Company made a determination in evaluating its investment strategy and its intent related to its held-for-investment mortgage loan portfolio that it no longer intends to hold this portfolio for investment. Accordingly, as of September 30, 2006, these loans were reclassified to held for sale. As a result of this change, in accordance with SFAS No. 65, “Accounting for Certain Mortgage Banking Activities,” the Company recorded its investment in this loan portfolio at the lower of cost or market and during 2006 recognized write-downs of $149.8 million in the value of these loans. Although the Company considers its valuation methodology to be appropriate, the realized value from a market transaction may differ given the inherently subjective nature of the valuation, including uncertainties related to the various market assumptions and other data used in the calculation and that difference could be material. The actual value from a market transaction will be subject to, among other things, changes in both short- and long-term interest rates, prepayment rates, housing prices, credit loss experience and the shape and slope of the yield curve. The Company will continue to monitor and assess the significant assumptions underlying this value in the future. The use of securitizations with over-collateralization requirements may have a negative impact on our cash flow. We expect that our mortgage loan securitizations may restrict our cash flow if loan delinquencies exceed specified levels. The terms of the securitizations will generally provide that, if loan delinquencies or losses exceed specified levels set based on analysis by the rating agencies (or the financial guaranty insurer, if applicable) of the characteristics of the loans pledged to collateralize the mortgage-backed securities, the required level of over-collateralization may be increased or may be prevented from decreasing as would otherwise be permitted if losses and/or delinquencies did not exceed those levels. Other terms of the securitizations, triggered by delinquency levels or other criteria, may also restrict our ability to receive net interest income that we would otherwise be entitled to in connection with a securitization transaction. We cannot assure you that loan delinquencies and losses will be limited to levels necessary to permit us to maximize our cash flows. Nor can we provide you, in advance of completing negotiations with the rating agencies and other key transaction parties that may be involved with our future securitizations, information regarding the actual terms of delinquency tests, over-collateralization requirements, cash flow release mechanisms or other significant terms affecting the calculation of net interest income to us. An interruption or reduction in the securitization and whole loan markets would harm our financial position. We are dependent on the securitization market for the sale of mortgage loans that we originate because we may securitize mortgage loans directly and many of our whole loan buyers purchase our loans with the intention to securitize them. Additionally, we currently rely on the securitization market for the long-term financing of some of our mortgage loans. The securitization market is dependent upon a number of factors, including general economic conditions, conditions in the securities market generally and conditions in the asset-backed securities market specifically. In addition, poor performance of our previously securitized loans could harm our access to the securitization market. Accordingly, a decline in the securitization market or a change in the market’s demand 52 Table of Contents for our loans could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. Finally, failure to satisfy the requirements of regulations issued by the SEC and known as Regulation AB may impact our ability to access the securitization market using our shelf registrations. Our failure to negotiate, or otherwise obtain, favorable securitization terms may materially and adversely affect the availability of net interest income to us. Fluctuating or rising interest rates may adversely affect the amount of net interest income we receive. The interest payable on the floating-rate asset-backed securities we issue in securitizations generally will adjust monthly and will be based on shorter term floating interest rates, while the interest income we receive from our mortgage loans generally will either be fixed, adjust less frequently than monthly or be subject to caps on the rates the borrowers pay. Accordingly, when interest rates rise, the interest rates that we pay to finance our mortgage loan originations may rise faster than the interest rates on our mortgage loans, which could cause the net interest income generated by our mortgage loan portfolio to decrease. Fluctuations in interest rates may affect our profitability several other ways, including but not limited to the following: • decreases in interest rates may cause prepayments to increase and may result in losses arising from our hedging activities, adversely affecting our net interest income over time from our securitized loans; and • increases in interest rates may reduce overall demand for mortgage loans, accordingly reduce our origination of new loans, and reduce the value of loans and other securities on our consolidated balance sheet, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Changes in interest rates could negatively affect the value of our residual interests, mortgage loans held for sale and mortgage loans held for investment, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and could negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. When we securitize loans, the value of the residual interests we retain and the income we receive from the securitizations structured as financings are based primarily on LIBOR. This is because the interest on the underlying mortgage loans is based on fixed rates payable on the underlying loans for the first two or three years from origination while the holders of the applicable securities are generally paid based on an adjustable LIBOR-based yield. Therefore, an increase in LIBOR reduces the net income we receive from, and the value of, these mortgage loans and residual interests. In addition, our adjustable-rate mortgage loans have periodic and lifetime interest rate caps above which the interest rate on the loans may not rise. In the event of general interest rate increases, the rate of interest on these mortgage loans could be limited, while the rate payable on the senior certificates representing interests in a securitization trust into which these loans are sold may be uncapped. This would reduce the amount of cash we receive over the life of the loans in securitizations structured as financings and our residual interests, and could require us to reduce the carrying value of our residual interests. Accordingly, changes in interest rates could negatively affect the value of our residual interests, mortgage loans held for sale and mortgage loans held for investment, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and could negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. A decrease in the value of the mortgage loans used as collateral under our credit facilities could cause us to default under our credit facilities. The amount available to us under our warehouse lines of credit and repurchase facilities depends in large part on the lender’s valuation of the mortgage loans that secure the facilities. Each credit facility provides the 53 Table of Contents lender the right, under certain circumstances, revalue the mortgage loan collateral that secures our outstanding borrowings at any time. In the event the lender determines that the value of the mortgage loan collateral has decreased, it has the right to initiate a margin call. A margin call would require us to provide the lender with additional collateral or to repay a portion of the outstanding borrowings at a time when we may not have a sufficient inventory of mortgage loans or cash to satisfy the margin call and at a time when the market value of our loans may be at a low. Accordingly, any failure by us to meet a margin call could cause us to default under our credit facilities and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to realize cash proceeds from non-conforming mortgage loan sales in excess of the loan acquisition cost, our financial position would be adversely affected. The net cash proceeds received from loan sales consist of the premiums we receive on sales of loans in excess of the outstanding principal balance, minus the discounts on loans that we sell for less than the outstanding principal balance. The proceeds we receive on loan sales are dependent on demand for consumer credit. Economic slowdowns or recessions may be accompanied by decreased real estate values and an increased rate of delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures. Potential purchasers might reduce the premiums they pay for the loans during these periods to compensate for any increased risks. Any sustained decline in demand for loans or increase in delinquencies, defaults or foreclosures is likely to significantly harm the pricing of our future loans sales such that it falls below our costs to originate loans. If we are unable to originate loans at a cost lower than the cash proceeds realized from loan sales, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Similarly, we securitize a portion of our loans and if there is no market for the purchase of our securities, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We have limited experience hedging the interest rate risk associated with retaining a portfolio of non-conforming mortgage loans over the long term, and any hedging strategies we may use may not be successful in mitigating these risks. We may use various derivative financial instruments to provide a level of protection against interest rate risks, but no hedging strategy can protect us completely. Additionally, we have limited experience hedging interest rate volatility arising from retaining a portfolio of mortgage loans over the long term. When interest rates change, we expect the gain or loss on derivatives to be offset by a related but inverse change in the value of our mortgage loans. We cannot assure you, however, that our use of derivatives will fully offset the risks related to changes in interest rates. It is likely that there will be periods during which we will recognize losses on our derivative financial instruments under our required accounting rules that will not be fully offset by gains we recognize on loans held for sale or loans held for investment. The derivative financial instruments that we select may not have the effect of reducing our price risk on our loans, including our interest rate risk. In addition, the nature and timing of hedging transactions may influence the effectiveness of these strategies. Poorly designed strategies, or improperly executed transactions or unanticipated market fluctuations could actually increase our risk and losses. In addition, hedging strategies involve transaction and other costs. Any hedging strategy or derivatives we use may not adequately offset the risk of interest rate volatility and our hedging transactions may result in losses. Finally, complying with the REIT requirements may limit our ability to enter into certain hedging transactions. We may be required to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans that we have sold or securitized, as the case may be, or to indemnify holders of our asset-backed securities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business. When we originate or acquire a mortgage loan and include it in a securitization transaction or whole loan sale, we make certain representations and warranties regarding certain characteristics of the loans, the borrowers and the underlying properties. If we are found to have breached any of these representations and warranties, we 54 Table of Contents may be required to repurchase or substitute those loans or, in the case of securitized loans, replace them with substitute loans or cash, as the case may be. If this occurs, we may have to bear any associated losses directly. In addition, in the case of loans that we sold, we may be required to indemnify the purchasers of the loans for losses or expenses incurred as a result of a breach of a representation or warranty. Repurchased loans typically require a significant allocation of working capital to carry on our books, and our ability to borrow against these loans is limited. Furthermore, repurchased mortgage loans typically can be sold only at a significant discount to the unpaid principal balance. Any repurchases, substitutions or indemnification payments could significantly harm our results of operations. The success of our investment portfolio management and securitization business will depend in part upon a third party’s ability to effectively service the loans held in our investment portfolio and in our securitizations. Historically, we have not serviced loans. We must continue to contract with a third-party to service the loans for us to fully implement our strategy The fees paid to a servicer will reduce our net interest income. Furthermore, our net interest income will depend in part upon the effectiveness of the third-party servicer. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to contract with a third-party servicer on reasonable terms or at all. We also cannot assure you that we or a servicer will be able to service the loans according to industry standards either at the outset or in the future. Any failure to service the loans properly will harm our operating results. A prolonged economic slowdown, a lengthy or severe recession or declining real estate values could harm our operations, particularly if it results in a decline in the real estate market. The risks associated with our business are more acute during periods of economic slowdown or recession because these periods may be accompanied by decreased demand for consumer credit and declining real estate values. Declining real estate values likely will reduce our level of new originations, because borrowers frequently use increases in the value of their homes to support new loans and higher levels of borrowings. Declining real estate values also negatively affect loan-to-value ratios, or LTVs, of our existing loans and significantly increase the likelihood that borrowers will default on existing loans. Any sustained period of economic slowdown or recession could adversely affect our net interest income from mortgage loans in our investment portfolio, as well as our ability to originate, sell and securitize loans, which conditions would significantly harm our results of operations. If we are unable to maintain our network of independent brokers, our mortgage loan origination business will decrease and if we are unable to grow our network of independent brokers our ability to increase our total mortgage loan originations volume may be hampered. A significant portion of the mortgage loans that we originate comes from independent brokers in our wholesale channels. Our brokers are not contractually obligated to do business with us. Further, our competitors also have relationships with our brokers and actively compete with us in our efforts to obtain loans from our brokers and to expand our broker networks. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in maintaining our existing relationships or expanding our broker networks, the failure of which could negatively affect the volume and pricing of our loans, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to losses due to fraudulent and negligent acts on the part of loan applicants, mortgage brokers, other vendors and our employees. When we originate mortgage loans, we rely heavily upon information supplied by third parties, including the information contained in the loan application made by the applicant, property appraisal, title information and employment and income documentation. If a third party misrepresents any of this information and if we do not 55 Table of Contents discover the misrepresentation prior to funding the loan, the value of the loan may be significantly lower than anticipated. As a practical matter, we generally bear the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation whether it is made by the loan applicant, the mortgage broker, another third party or one of our employees. A loan with respect to which a material misrepresentation has been made is typically unsalable or subject to repurchase if it was sold prior to detection of the misrepresentation. In addition, the persons and entities that make such material misrepresentations, are often difficult to locate, and it is nearly impossible to recoup any monetary losses that we may have suffered, as a result of such material misrepresentations from those who have made them. For a portion of the mortgage loans we originate, we required no or limited documentation of the borrowers’ income and bank account information. Instead, we based our credit decisions largely on the borrowers’ credit score and credit history, the collateral value of the property securing the loan and the effect of the loan on the borrowers’ debt service. There is a higher risk of default on loans where there is little or no documentation of the borrowers’ income. We will incur significant costs related to governmental regulation. Our business is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and licensing by federal, state and local governmental authorities and is subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on a substantial portion of our operations. Our lending and servicing activities are subject to numerous federal laws and regulations, including the Truth-in-Lending Act and Regulation Z (including the Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act of 1994), the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Regulation B, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, or RESPA, the Fair Housing Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, or HMDA, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the privacy requirements of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, and the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003, or the FACT Act. We also are required to comply with a variety of state and local consumer protection laws and are subject to the rules and regulations of, and examination by state regulatory authorities with respect to originating, processing, underwriting, selling, securitizing and servicing mortgage loans. Additionally, in connection with our shelf registrations we are required to comply with Regulation AB, which recently became effective. Regulation AB may have an impact on our origination costs because our whole loan purchasers that participate in the securitization market may require us to provide additional undertakings in connection with Regulation AB. These requirements can and do change as statutes and regulations are amended. These statutes and regulations, among other things, impose licensing and disclosure obligations upon us, establish eligibility criteria for mortgage loans, prohibit discrimination, provide for inspections and appraisals of properties securing mortgage loans, require credit reports on mortgage loan applicants, regulate assessment, servicing-related fees collection, foreclosure and claims handling, investment and interest payments on escrow balances and payment features, mandate certain disclosures and notices to borrowers, require performance tracking of loans and securities backed by our loans and, in some cases, fix maximum interest rates, finance charges, fees and mortgage loan amounts. We will incur significant costs attributable to such governmental regulations, which will have a negative effect on our net income. If we do not obtain the necessary state licenses and approvals, we will not be allowed to acquire, fund or originate mortgage loans in some states, which would adversely affect our operations and may result in our inability to qualify as a REIT. Most states in which we do business require that we be licensed to conduct our business. As part of our acquisition of First NLC, we were required to obtain various new licenses and approvals under existing licenses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain all necessary licenses and approvals. 56 Table of Contents Our inability to comply with the large body of complex laws and regulations at the Federal, state and local levels associated with our business could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Our subsidiary, First NLC currently is licensed, approved or authorized, or exempt from licensing, to originate mortgage loans in 45 states. Our subsidiary, MHC currently is licensed, or exempt from licensing, to acquire mortgage loans in 49 states and the District of Columbia. We must comply with the laws and regulations, as well as judicial and administrative decisions, in all of these jurisdictions, as well as an extensive body of federal law and regulations. The volume of new or modified laws and regulations has increased in recent years, and, in addition, individual cities and counties have begun to enact laws that restrict non-prime mortgage loan origination activities in those cities and counties. The laws and regulations of each of these jurisdictions are different, complex and, in some cases, in direct conflict with each other. As our operations continue to grow, it may be more difficult to comprehensively identify, accurately interpret, properly program our technology systems and effectively train our personnel with respect to all of these laws and regulations, thereby potentially increasing our exposure to the risks of noncompliance with these laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations can lead to: • civil and criminal liability, including potential monetary penalties; • loss of state licenses or other approval status required for continued lending or servicing operations; • legal defenses causing delay or otherwise adversely affecting our ability to enforce loans, or giving the borrower the right to rescind or cancel the loan transaction; • refunds to borrowers; • demands for indemnification or loan repurchases under our whole-loan sales and securitizations; • litigation, including class action lawsuits; • administrative enforcement actions and fines; • damage to our reputation in the industry; • loss of the ability to obtain ratings on our securitizations by rating agencies; and • the inability to obtain credit to fund our operations. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business. We cannot assure you that more restrictive laws, rules and regulations will not be adopted in the future, or that existing laws and regulations will not be interpreted in a more restrictive manner, that could make compliance more difficult or expensive. We are also subject to examination by state regulatory authorities in each of the states in which we operate. To resolve issues raised in these examinations, we have in the past, and may in the future, be required to take various corrective actions, including changing certain business practices and making refunds in certain circumstances to borrowers. The laws and regulations described above are subject to legislative, administrative and judicial interpretation, and certain of these laws and regulations have been infrequently interpreted or only recently enacted. Infrequent interpretations of these laws and regulations or an insignificant number of interpretations of recently enacted regulations can result in ambiguity with respect to permitted conduct under these laws and regulations. Any ambiguity under the regulations to which we are subject may lead to regulatory investigations or enforcement actions and private causes of action, such as class action lawsuits, with respect to our compliance with the applicable laws and regulations. As a mortgage lender, we may be also subject to regulatory 57 Table of Contents enforcement actions and private causes of action from time to time with respect to our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. We cannot assure you that future examinations or governmental actions will not cause us to change certain business practices, make refunds or take other actions that would be financially or competitively detrimental to us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain or maintain all necessary licenses and approvals in a timely manner or at all. Failure to obtain and maintain these licenses and approvals would limit, delay and disrupt (1) our ability to increase REIT qualifying assets and income and (2) our operations in certain geographical regions, and perhaps nationwide, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business. The complex federal, state and municipal laws governing loan servicing activities could increase our exposure to the risk of noncompliance. If we were to service the loans we originate or acquire, we would be confronted with the laws and regulations, as well as judicial and administrative decisions, of all relevant jurisdictions pertaining to loan servicing, as well as an extensive body of federal laws and regulations. The volume of new or modified laws and regulations has increased in recent years and, in addition, some individual municipalities have begun to enact laws that restrict loan servicing activities. The laws and regulations of each of these jurisdictions are different, complex and, in some cases, in direct conflict with each other. If we were to become involved in servicing operations, it may be more difficult to comprehensively identify, to accurately interpret and to properly program our technology systems and effectively train our personnel with respect to all of these laws and regulations, thereby potentially increasing our exposure to the risks of noncompliance with the laws and regulations pertaining to loan servicing. Our failure to comply with these laws could lead to, among other things: (i) civil and criminal liability, including potential monetary penalties; (ii) legal defenses delaying or otherwise harming the servicer’s ability to enforce loans, or giving the borrower the right to rescind or cancel the loan transactions; (iii) class action lawsuits; and (iv) administrative enforcement actions. This could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. New legislation could restrict our ability to make or to acquire mortgage loans, which could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and business. Several states, counties and cities are considering or have passed laws or regulations aimed at curbing “predatory lending” practices. The federal government is also considering legislative and regulatory proposals in this regard. In general, these proposals involve lowering the existing Federal Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act thresholds for defining a “high-cost” loan, and establishing enhanced protections and remedies for borrowers who receive such high-cost loans. However, many of these laws and regulations extend beyond curbing predatory lending practices to restrict commonly accepted lending activities. For example, some of these laws and regulations prohibit or limit prepayment charges or severely restrict a borrower’s ability to finance the points and fees charged in connection with the origination of a mortgage loan. Passage of these laws and regulations could reduce our mortgage loan origination volume. In fact, we have withdrawn from certain jurisdictions due to such legislation and any new legislation may cause us to withdraw from additional jurisdictions. Some of these restrictions expose a lender to risks of litigation and regulatory sanction no matter how carefully a mortgage loan is underwritten or originated. In addition, an increasing number of these laws, rules and regulations seek to impose liability for violations on purchasers of mortgage loans, regardless of whether a purchaser knew of or participated in the violation. Accordingly, for reputational reasons, the purchasers and lenders that buy our mortgage loans or provide financing for our mortgage loan originations may not want to buy or finance any mortgage loans subject to these types of laws, rules and regulations. These purchasers and lenders are not contractually required to purchase or finance such mortgage loans. In addition, for reputational reasons and because of the enhanced risk, many whole-loan purchasers will not buy and rating agencies may refuse to rate any securitization containing any mortgage loan labeled as a “high-cost” loan under 58 Table of Contents any local, state or federal law or regulation. Accordingly, these laws and regulations severely constrict the secondary market and limit the acceptable standards of mortgage loan production in our industry. This could effectively preclude us from originating or acquiring mortgage loans that fit within the newly defined parameters and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to securitize or sell mortgage loans and, therefore, our results of operations, financial condition and business. If, for competitive reasons, we were to decide to relax our self-imposed restrictions on originating and purchasing mortgage loans subject to these laws, we would be subject to greater risks for actual or perceived non-compliance with such laws, rules, and regulations, including demands for indemnification or loan repurchases from our lenders and purchasers of our mortgage loans, class action lawsuits, increased defenses to foreclosure of individual loans in default, individual claims for significant monetary damages, and administrative enforcement actions. Any of the foregoing could significantly harm our results of operations, financial condition and business. Furthermore, members of Congress and government officials have from time to time suggested the elimination of the mortgage interest deduction for federal income tax purposes, either entirely or in part, based on borrower income, type of loan or principal amount. Because many of our mortgage loans are made to borrowers for the purpose of consolidating consumer debt or financing other consumer needs, the competitive advantage of tax deductible interest, when compared with alternative sources of financing, could be eliminated or seriously impaired by such government action. Accordingly, the reduction or elimination of these tax benefits to borrowers could have a material adverse effect on the demand for the mortgage loan products we offer. We may be subject to various legal actions, which if decided adversely could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Because the non-conforming mortgage lending and servicing business by its nature involves the collection of numerous accounts, the validity of liens and compliance with local, state and federal lending laws, mortgage lenders and servicers, including us, are subject to numerous claims and legal actions in the ordinary course of business. These legal actions include lawsuits styled as class actions and alleging violations of various federal, state and local regulations and laws. In addition, in recent years, both state and federal regulators and enforcement agencies have subjected the practices of non-conforming mortgage lenders to particularly intense regulatory scrutiny, which has resulted in a number of well publicized governmental and other investigations of certain of our competitors. Lawsuits can be very expensive, harm a company’s reputation and otherwise disrupt operations. We cannot assure you that we will not be the subject of legal actions that could materially adversely affect our financial condition. The conduct of the independent brokers through whom we originate our wholesale mortgage loans could subject us to fines or other penalties. The mortgage brokers through whom we originate wholesale mortgage loans have parallel and separate legal obligations to which they are subject. While these laws may not explicitly hold the originating lenders responsible for the legal violations of mortgage brokers, federal and state agencies increasingly have sought to impose such liability. Recently, for example, the United States Federal Trade Commission, or the FTC, entered into a settlement agreement with a mortgage lender where the FTC characterized a broker that had placed all of its loan production with a single lender as the “agent” of the lender. The FTC imposed a fine on the lender in part because, as “principal,” the lender was legally responsible for the mortgage broker’s unfair and deceptive acts and practices. The United States Department of Justice in the past has sought to hold mortgage lenders responsible for the pricing practices of mortgage brokers, alleging that the mortgage lender is directly responsible for the total fees and charges paid by the borrower under the Fair Housing Act, even if the lender neither dictated what the mortgage broker could charge nor kept the money for its own account. Although we exercise little or no control over the activities of the independent mortgage brokers from whom we obtain our wholesale loans, we may be subject to fines or other penalties based upon the conduct of our independent mortgage brokers. Further, 59 Table of Contents we have in the past made refunds to our borrowers because of the conduct of mortgage brokers and it is possible that we may in the future be subject to additional payments, fines or other penalties based upon the conduct of the brokers with whom we do business. “Do not call” registry and “Do not fax” rules may limit our ability to market our products and services. Our marketing operations, including the activities of brokers who originate mortgage loans for us, may be restricted by the development of various federal and state laws, including “do not call” list requirements and “do not fax” requirements. Federal and state laws have been enacted that permit consumers to protect themselves from unsolicited marketing telephone calls. In 2003, the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, amended its rules to establish a national “do not call” registry. Generally, vendors are prohibited from calling anyone on that registry unless the consumer has initiated the contact or given prior consent. Even though court decisions in 2003 questioned the FTC’s authority to effect such a registry and raised First Amendment issues, the FTC put the registry into operation. A 2004 U.S. Court of Appeals decision has held that the FTC rules do not conflict with the freedom of commercial speech under the First Amendment, which has increased the likelihood that the FTC rules will remain in effect. In October 2004, the U.S. Supreme Court declined to hear an appeal seeking to overturn the Tenth Circuit ruling. The Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1981 and rules issued by the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, prohibit vendors from sending unsolicited fax advertisements. Currently, a fax is not unsolicited if the sender has an established business relationship with the recipient. However, beginning July 1, 2005, a fax advertisement may be sent only if the sender has a signed, written consent from the recipient that includes the fax number to which any advertisements may be sent. In view of the public concern with privacy, we cannot assure you that additional rules that restrict or make more costly the marketing activities that we or our vendors employ will not be adopted. Such regulations may restrict our ability to market our products and services to new customers effectively. Furthermore, compliance with these regulations may prove costly and difficult, and we, or our vendors, may incur penalties for improperly conducting our marketing activities. We are subject to significant legal and reputational risks and expenses under federal and state laws concerning privacy, use, and security of customer information. The scope of business activity affected by “privacy” concerns is likely to expand and will affect our non-prime mortgage loan origination business. The federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley financial reform legislation imposes significant privacy obligations on us in connection with the collection, use and security of financial and other non-public information provided to us by applicants and borrowers. We adopted a privacy policy and adopted controls and procedures to comply with the law after it took effect on July 1, 2001. Privacy rules also require us to protect the security and integrity of the customer information we use and hold. Although we have systems and procedures designed to help us with these privacy requirements, we cannot assure you that more restrictive laws and regulations will not be adopted in the future, or that governmental bodies will not interpret existing laws or regulations in a more restrictive manner, making compliance more difficult or expensive. These requirements also increase the risk that we may be subject to liability for non-compliance. A number of states are considering privacy amendments that may be more demanding than federal law, and California recently has enacted two statutes—the California Financial Information Privacy Act (also know as SB-1) and the California Online Privacy Protection Act, both of which took effect on July 1, 2004. Under SB-1, a financial company must allow its customers to opt out of the sharing of their information with affiliates in separately regulated lines of business and must receive a customer opt-in before confidential customer data may be shared with unaffiliated companies (subject to certain exceptions). A federal court rejected the effort of three financial trade associations to prevent SB-1 from taking effect, and as of July 1, 2004, the California Department of Financial Institutions announced that it would require immediate compliance with SB-1. Under the new California Online Privacy Act, all operators of commercial websites and online services that allow interaction with California consumers (even if no transactions may be effected online) must post privacy policies meeting statutory requirements. The FTC, which administers the federal privacy rules for mortgage lenders, has 60 Table of Contents determined that privacy laws in several states are not preempted by Gramm-Leach-Bliley, most recently new privacy laws enacted by Vermont and Illinois. In view of the public concern with privacy, we cannot assure you that additional rules that restrict or make more costly our activities and the activities of our vendors will not be adopted and will not restrict the marketing of our products and services to new customers. Because laws and rules concerning the use and protection of customer information are continuing to develop at the federal and state levels, we expect to incur increased costs in our effort to be and remain in full compliance with these requirements. Nevertheless, despite our efforts, we will be subject to legal and reputational risks in connection with our collection and use of customer information, and we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to lawsuits or compliance actions under such state or federal privacy requirements. Furthermore, to the extent that a variety of inconsistent state privacy rules or requirements are enacted, our compliance costs could substantially increase. Our inability to rely on the Alternative Mortgage Transactions Parity Act to preempt certain state law restrictions on prepayment charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business. The value of a mortgage loan depends, in part, upon the expected period of time that the mortgage loan will be outstanding. If a borrower pays off a mortgage loan in advance of this expected period, the holder of the mortgage loan does not realize the full value expected to be received from the mortgage loan. A prepayment charge payable by a borrower who repays a mortgage loan earlier than expected helps offset the reduction in value resulting from the early payoff. Consequently, the value of a mortgage loan is enhanced to the extent it includes a prepayment charge and a mortgage lender can offer a lower interest rate and lower loan fees on a mortgage loan which has a prepayment charge. Certain state laws restrict or prohibit prepayment charges on mortgage loans and, until July 1, 2003, we relied on the federal Alternative Mortgage Transactions Parity Act, or the Parity Act, and related rules issued in the past by the Office of Thrift Supervision, or the OTS, to preempt state limitations on prepayment charges related to adjustable rate mortgage loans. The Parity Act was enacted to extend the federal preemption that federally chartered depository institutions enjoy related to adjustable rate mortgage loans to all qualifying financial institutions, including mortgage banking companies. However, on September 25, 2002, the OTS released a new rule that reduced the scope of the Parity Act preemption and, as a result, we are no longer able to rely on the Parity Act to preempt state restrictions on prepayment charges. The effective date of the new rule was July 1, 2003. In July 2004, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia upheld the OTS action withdrawing its Parity Act regulations and, as a result, non-federal housing creditors are subject to state law concerning prepayment and late fees. The elimination of this federal preemption requires us to comply with state restrictions on prepayment charges. These restrictions prohibit us from making any prepayment charge in certain states and restrict the amount and duration of prepayment charges that we may impose in other states. This may place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to certain state and federally chartered depository institutions that will continue to enjoy federal preemption of such state restrictions. Such institutions may still impose prepayment charges without regard to state restrictions and, as a result, may be able to offer mortgage loans with interest rate and loan fee structures that are more attractive than the interest rate and loan fee structures that we are able to offer. This competitive disadvantage could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business. If many of our borrowers become subject to the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act of 2003, our cash flows and interest income may be adversely affected. Under the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act of 2003, which re-enacted the Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Civil Relief Act of 1940, a borrower who enters military service after the origination of his or her mortgage loan generally may not be required to pay interest above an annual rate of 6%, and the lender is restricted from exercising certain enforcement remedies, during the period of the borrower’s active duty status. This act also applies to a borrower who was on reserve status and is called to active duty after origination of the mortgage 61 Table of Contents loan. In view of the large number of U.S. Armed Forces personnel on active duty and likely to be on active duty in the future, our compliance with this act could reduce our cash flow and the interest payments collected from those borrowers, and in the event of default, delay or prevent us from exercising the remedies for default that otherwise would be available to us. We are exposed to environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to residential properties, and, if we do take title, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. The laws and regulations related to environmental contamination often impose liability without regard to responsibility for the contamination. We may be liable to a governmental entity or third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or we may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Tax Risks of our Business and Structure Our ownership limitation may restrict change of control or business combination opportunities in which our shareholders might receive a premium for their shares. In order for us to qualify as a REIT, no more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals during the last half of any calendar year. “Individuals” include natural persons, private foundations, some employee benefit plans and trusts, and some charitable trusts. In order to preserve our REIT status, our amended and restated articles of incorporation generally prohibit any shareholder from directly or indirectly owning more than 9.9% of any class or series of our outstanding common stock or preferred stock. The ownership limitation could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which holders of our common stock might receive a premium for their shares over the then prevailing market price or which holders might believe to be otherwise in their best interests. U.S. federal income tax requirements may restrict our operations, which could restrict our ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities, which could negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. We intend to continue to operate in a manner that is intended to cause us to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, the U.S. federal income tax laws governing REITs are extremely complex, and interpretations of the U.S. federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. Qualifying as a REIT requires us to meet various tests regarding the nature of our assets and our income, the ownership of our outstanding stock, and the amount of our distributions on an ongoing basis. In some instances, compliance with these tests may not be completely within our control. For example, some of our investments are in equity securities of other REITs, which generally are qualifying assets and produce qualifying income for purposes of the REIT qualification tests. The failure of the REITs in which we invest to maintain their REIT status, however, could jeopardize our REIT status. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in operating so as to qualify as a REIT. At any time, new laws, interpretations, or court decisions may change the federal tax laws regarding, or the U.S. federal income tax consequences of, qualification as a REIT. In addition, compliance with the REIT 62 Table of Contents qualification tests could restrict our ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities in non-qualifying assets, which would negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. For example, we may be required to limit our investment in non-REIT equity securities and mezzanine loans to the extent that such loans are not secured by real property. Our ownership of and relationship with our taxable REIT subsidiaries will be limited and a failure to comply with the limits would jeopardize our REIT status and may result in the application of a 100% excise tax. A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. A taxable REIT subsidiary may earn income that would not be qualifying income if earned directly by the parent REIT. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a taxable REIT subsidiary. A corporation of which a taxable REIT subsidiary directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a taxable REIT subsidiary. Overall, no more than 20% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. A taxable REIT subsidiary will pay income tax at regular corporate rates on any income that it earns. In addition, the taxable REIT subsidiary rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a taxable REIT subsidiary to its parent REIT to assure that the taxable REIT subsidiary is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a taxable REIT subsidiary and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. All of our operating businesses are conducted through taxable REIT subsidiaries. Our taxable REIT subsidiaries pay corporate income tax on their taxable income, and their after-tax net income is available for distribution to us but is not required to be distributed to us. The aggregate value of the taxable REIT subsidiary stock and securities currently owned by us is significantly less than 20% of the value of our total assets (including the taxable REIT subsidiary stock and securities). Furthermore, we will monitor the value of our investments in our taxable REIT subsidiaries for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the rule that no more than 20% of the value of our assets may consist of taxable REIT subsidiary stock and securities (which is applied at the end of each calendar quarter). In addition, we will scrutinize all of our transactions with our taxable REIT subsidiaries for the purpose of ensuring that they are entered into on arm’s-length terms in order to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. There can be no complete assurance, however, that we will be able to comply with the 20% limitation on ownership of taxable REIT subsidiary stock and securities on an ongoing basis so as to maintain REIT status or to avoid application of the 100% excise tax imposed on certain non-arm’s-length transactions. Failure to make required distributions would subject us to tax, which would reduce the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. In order to qualify as a REIT, an entity must distribute to its shareholders, each calendar year, at least 90% of its taxable income, other than any net capital gain and excluding any retained earnings of taxable REIT subsidiaries. To the extent that a REIT satisfies the 90% distribution requirement, but distributes less than 100% of its taxable income, it will be subject to federal corporate income tax on its undistributed income. In addition, the REIT will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which its distributions in any calendar year are less than the sum of: • 85% of its ordinary income for that year; • 95% of its capital gain net income for that year; and • 100% of its undistributed taxable income from prior years. We intend to continue to pay out our REIT taxable income to our shareholders in a manner intended to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid both corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax. However, there is no requirement that taxable REIT subsidiaries distribute their after-tax net income to their parent REIT or their shareholders and our taxable REIT subsidiaries may elect not to make any distributions to us. 63 Table of Contents Our taxable income may substantially exceed our net income as determined based on generally accepted accounting principles because, for example, capital losses will be deducted in determining our GAAP income, but may not be deductible in computing our taxable income. In addition, we may invest in assets that generate taxable income in excess of economic income or in advance of the corresponding cash flow from the assets, referred to as phantom income. Although some types of phantom income are excluded in determining the 90% distribution requirement, we will incur corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax with respect to any phantom income items if we do not distribute those items on an annual basis. As a result of the foregoing, we may generate less cash flow than taxable income in a particular year. In that event, we may be required to use cash reserves, incur debt, or liquidate non-cash assets at rates or times that we regard as unfavorable in order to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in that year. Failure to qualify as a REIT would subject us to U.S. federal income tax, which would reduce the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any calendar year, we would be required to pay U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income. We might need to borrow money or sell assets in order to pay that tax. Our payment of income tax would decrease the amount of our income available for distribution to our shareholders. Furthermore, if we cease to be a REIT, we no longer would be required to distribute substantially all of our taxable income to our shareholders. Unless our failure to qualify as a REIT were excused under federal tax laws, we could not re-elect REIT status until the fifth calendar year following the year in which we failed to qualify. The requirement that we distribute at least 90% of our taxable income to our shareholders, other than net capital gains and excluding the retained earnings of our taxable REIT subsidiaries, each year will result in our shareholders receiving periodic taxable distributions. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must distribute to our shareholders, each calendar year, at least 90% of our taxable income; other than net capital gains and excluding the taxable income of our taxable REIT subsidiaries. As a result, our shareholders receive periodic distributions from us. These distributions generally are taxable as ordinary income to the extent that they are made out of our current or accumulated earnings and profits. Our ordinary REIT dividends generally are not eligible for the reduced tax rates applicable to dividends paid by regular C corporations. A sale of assets acquired from FBR Group within ten years after the merger would result in corporate income tax, which would reduce the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. If we sell any asset that we acquired from FBR Group, including the stock and securities of certain of our taxable REIT subsidiaries, within ten years after the merger and recognize a taxable gain on the sale, we will be taxed at the highest corporate rate on an amount equal to the lesser of: • the amount of gain that we recognize at the time of the sale; or • the amount of gain that we would have recognized if we had sold the asset at the time of the merger for its then fair market value. This rule potentially could inhibit us from selling assets acquired from FBR Group within ten years after the merger. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our common stock. The federal income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended at any time. Any of those new laws or interpretations may take effect retroactively and could adversely affect us or you as a shareholder. 64 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 