ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our company involves various risks, including the risk that you might lose your entire investment. Our results of operations depend upon many factors including our ability to implement our business strategy, the availability of opportunities to acquire assets, the level and volatility of interest rates, the cost and availability of short- and long-term credit, financial market conditions, and general economic conditions. The following discussion concerns some of the risks associated with our business. These risks are interrelated, and you should treat them as a whole. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, may also materially and adversely affect the value of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. In connection with the forward-looking statements that appear in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including these risk factors and elsewhere, you should carefully review the section entitled “Cautionary Statement About Forward-Looking Information.” In addition to the risk factors discussed below, you should carefully review the information discussed under the heading “Risk Factors” (Part I, Item 1A) of the FBR Capital Markets Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008. Those risk factors are incorporated by reference herein. Risks Related to Adverse Market Conditions In general, changes in market conditions could further adversely and materially affect our businesses and the value of our common stock could be negatively impacted. Risk is an inherent part of our business. Our businesses, by their nature, do not produce predictable earnings, and our business and FBR Capital Markets’ business are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally. In the past twelve months, these conditions have changed suddenly and negatively and may continue to change adversely in 2009 and future periods. Since mid-2007, and particularly during the second half of 2008, and continuing in 2009, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. This was initially triggered by declines in the values of subprime mortgages, but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged bank loans and to nearly all asset classes, including equities. The global markets have been characterized by substantially increased volatility and short-selling and an overall loss of investor confidence, initially in financial institutions, but more recently in companies in a number of other industries and in the broader markets. The decline in asset values has caused increases in margin calls for investors, requirements that derivatives counterparties post additional collateral and redemptions by mutual and hedge fund investors, all of which have increased the downward pressure on asset values and outflows of client funds across the financial services industry. In addition, the increased redemptions and unavailability of credit have required hedge funds and others to rapidly reduce leverage, which has increased volatility and further contributed to the decline in asset values. Market conditions have also led to the failure or merger of a number of prominent financial institutions. Financial institution failures or near-failures have resulted in further losses as a consequence of defaults on securities issued by them and defaults under bilateral derivatives and other contracts entered into with such entities as counterparties. Furthermore, declining asset values, defaults on mortgages and consumer loans, and the lack of market and investor confidence, as well as other factors, have all combined to increase credit default swap spreads, to cause rating agencies to lower credit ratings, and to otherwise increase the cost and decrease the availability of liquidity, despite very significant declines in central bank borrowing rates and other government actions. Banks and other lenders have suffered significant losses and have become reluctant to lend, even on a secured basis, due to the increased risk of default and the impact of declining asset values on the value of collateral. The markets for securitized debt offerings backed by mortgages, loans, credit card receivables and other assets have for the most part been closed. 16 Table of Contents In 2008, and continuing in 2009, governments, regulators and central banks in the United States and worldwide have taken numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor confidence, but asset values have continued to decline and access to liquidity continues to be very limited. The ongoing liquidity crisis and the loss of confidence in financial institutions has increased our cost of funding and limited our access to some of our traditional sources of liquidity, including both secured and unsecured borrowings. While the numerous steps taken by governments, regulators and central banks have helped reduce these funding costs somewhat and increased our access to traditional and new sources of liquidity, increases in funding costs and limitations on our access to liquidity have negatively impacted our earnings and our ability to engage in certain activities. In the event of further adverse changes in market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, equity, fixed income, commodity or real estate valuations, liquidity, availability of credit or volatility, our businesses could be adversely affected in many ways. Our cash flows may decline as a result of adverse market conditions. As of the end of 2008, business activity across a wide range of industries and regions is greatly reduced and local governments and many companies are in serious difficulty due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Unemployment has increased significantly. Overall declines in asset values, the lack of liquidity, general uncertainty about economic and market activities and a lack of consumer, investor and CEO confidence have negatively impacted our business. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by: declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation, interest rates, exchange rate volatility, default rates or the price of basic commodities; outbreaks of hostilities or other geopolitical instability; corporate, political or other scandals that reduce investor confidence in capital markets; natural disasters or pandemics; or a combination of these or other factors. Overall, during fiscal 2008, the business environment has been extremely adverse and there can be no assurance that these conditions will improve in the near term. Until they do, we expect our results of operations to be adversely affected. Our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by disruptions in the credit markets, including reduced access to credit and higher costs of obtaining credit. Widening credit spreads, as well as significant declines in the availability of credit, have adversely affected our ability to borrow on a secured and unsecured basis and may continue to do so. We fund ourselves on an unsecured basis by issuing commercial paper, to the extent the commercial paper market is available to us, promissory notes and long-term debt, or by obtaining bank loans or lines of credit. We seek to finance many of our assets, including our less liquid assets, on a secured basis, including by entering into repurchase agreements. Disruptions in the credit markets make it harder and more expensive to obtain funding for our businesses. If our available funding is limited or we are forced to fund our operations at a higher cost, these conditions may require us to curtail our business activities and increase our cost of funding, both of which could reduce our profitability, particularly in our businesses that involve investing, lending and taking principal positions, including market making. In addition, we may incur significant unrealized gains or losses due solely to changes in our credit spreads or those of third parties, as these changes may affect the fair value of our derivative instruments and the debt securities that we hold or issue. General Risks Related to our Business We are currently not in compliance with the continued listing requirements of the NYSE, and we may not be successful in reestablishing our compliance. We are currently not in compliance with certain of the NYSE continued listing requirements, including the requirement that the stock price maintain a 30-day moving average of $1.00 per share. The NYSE has granted us 17 Table of Contents an opportunity to cure our non-compliance with the continued listing requirements, and we are endeavoring to cure the non-compliance. Our efforts to cure the non-compliance may include, among other actions, effecting a reverse stock split, which would require the approval of our shareholders. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in curing the non-compliance during the allotted cure period. If we are not able to cure the non-compliance during the allotted cure period, we may be forced to de-list our Class A common stock from the NYSE. If that were to occur, we may list our Class A common stock on another alternative securities exchange or other trading venue. The voting power of our principal shareholders and other executive officers, directors and nominees may result in corporate action with which you do not agree and may discourage third party acquisitions of our company and prevent our shareholders from receiving any premium above market price for their shares. Eric F. Billings has significant influence over our operations through his ownership of our common stock, which, as of February 27, 2009, represents approximately 15.5% of the total voting power of our common stock. In addition, Mr. Billings serves as Chairman of our Board of Directors and as our Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Billings also serves as a member of the board of directors and as Chairman of FBR Capital Markets. As of February 27, 2009, Mr. Billings and all of our other executive officers, directors and nominees, as a group, control approximately 18.7% of our total voting power. The extent of the influence that Mr. Billings and our other officers, directors and nominees have over us may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire control of our company and may preclude holders of our common stock from receiving any premium above market price for their shares that may be offered in connection with any attempt to acquire control of our company without the approval of Mr. Billings. The trading prices of our Class A common stock may be adversely affected by factors outside of our control. Any negative changes in the public’s perception of the prospects for our business or the types of assets in which we invest, could depress our stock price regardless of our results. The following factors could contribute to the volatility of the price of our Class A common stock: • actual or unanticipated variations in our quarterly results; • changes in our financial estimates by securities analysts; • conditions or trends affecting companies that make investments similar to ours or that provide services similar to FBR Capital Markets and its subsidiaries; • changes in interest rate environments and the mortgage market that cause our borrowing costs to increase, our reported yields on our MBS portfolio to decrease or that cause the value of our MBS portfolio to decrease; • changes in the market valuations of the securities in our MBS portfolio and in our merchant banking and other principal investments; • negative changes in the public’s perception of the prospects of investment or financial services companies; • changes in the regulatory environment in which our business operates; • general economic conditions such as a recession, or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations; • negative changes in the public’s perception as a result of our intention to terminate our status as a REIT in 2009 (effective as of January 1, 2009); and • additions or departures of our key personnel. Many of these factors are beyond our control. 18 Table of Contents We may experience significant fluctuations in quarterly operating results. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and from year to year due to a combination of factors which are beyond our control. As a result, we may fail to meet profitability or dividend expectations, if our board of directors elects to resume payment of a cash dividend in the future, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our Class A common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. We did not pay any cash dividends during 2008, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to pay dividends in the future. Our Board of Directors did not authorize the payment of any cash dividends to our shareholders during 2008. Pursuant to our variable dividend policy, our Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, may reinstate the payment of cash dividends when appropriate in the future, but there can be no assurances as to when it will do so, if ever. As a result of the revocation of our REIT status effective as of January 1, 2009, we may retain any available funds and future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. Loss of our exclusion from regulation as an investment company under the 1940 Act would adversely affect us and reduce the market price of our shares. To avoid regulation under the 1940 Act, we rely on Section 3(a)(1)(C) for our exclusion from the registration requirements of the 1940 Act. This provision requires that we neither engage nor propose to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and not own or propose to acquire “investment securities” having a value exceeding 40% of the value of our total assets on an unconsolidated basis. For purposes of the 1940 Act, the term “investment securities” excludes U.S. government securities and securities of majority-owned subsidiaries that are not themselves investment companies and are not relying on the exemption under Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the 1940 Act. Accordingly, we need to ensure that no more than 40% of our assets, on an unconsolidated basis, excluding cash and government securities, consist of investment securities for purposes of the 40% test. We are a holding company that conducts our business through wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries, including FBR Capital Markets. FBR Capital Markets also relies on the 40% test in order to be excluded from regulation under the 1940 Act. Because FBR Capital Markets is a majority-owned subsidiary and is not relying on Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) for its exemption, our interests in this subsidiary are not investment securities. We will need to ensure not only that we qualify for an exclusion or exemption from regulation under the 1940 Act, but also that each of our subsidiaries qualifies for such an exclusion or exemption. We intend to maintain our exclusion by monitoring the value of interests in our subsidiaries. We may not be successful in this regard. If we fail to maintain our exclusion and another exclusion or exemption is not available, we may be required to register as an investment company, or we may be required to acquire or dispose of assets in order to meet our exemption. Any such asset acquisitions or dispositions may include assets that we would not acquire or dispose of in the ordinary course of business, may be at unfavorable prices and result in a decline in the price of our common stock. If we are required to register under the 1940 Act, we would become subject to substantial regulation with respect to our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons (as defined in the 1940 Act), and portfolio composition, including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration and other matters. Accordingly, registration under the 1940 Act could limit our ability to follow our current investment and financing strategies and result in a decline in the price of our common stock. 19 Table of Contents We face intense competition for personnel which could adversely affect our business and in turn negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. We are dependent on highly skilled, and often highly specialized, individuals we employ. Retention of specialists to manage our MBS portfolio and our merchant banking and other principal investments are particularly important to our prospects. Competition for the recruiting and retention of employees may increase elements of our compensation costs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to recruit and hire a sufficient number of new employees with the desired qualifications in a timely manner. We regularly review our compensation policies, including stock incentives. Nonetheless, our incentives may be insufficient to recruit and retain our employees. Increased compensation costs could adversely affect the amount of cash available for distribution to shareholders and our failure to recruit and retain qualified employees could materially and adversely affect our future operating results. We are dependent on a small number of key senior professionals and loss of the professionals could adversely affect our results and may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our Class A common stock and our ability to pay dividends. We generally do not have employment agreements with our senior officers and other key professionals. The loss of the members of our senior management and other key professionals could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to have access to members of our senior management team or other key professionals. We are highly dependent on systems and third parties, and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our Class A common stock and our ability to pay dividends. Our business is highly dependent on communications and information systems, including systems provided by our clearing brokers and by and for other third parties. Any failure or interruption of our systems, the systems of our clearing brokers, or third-party trading or information systems could cause delays or other problems in our securities trading activities, including MBS trading activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends. Indemnification agreements with our affiliates may increase the costs to us of litigation against our company. Our charter documents allow indemnification of our officers, directors and agents to the maximum extent permitted by Virginia law, as may the charter documents of our subsidiaries in their respective jurisdictions of incorporation. We have entered into indemnification agreements with these persons. We also have agreed to indemnify FBR Capital Markets against claims that relate to our capital markets businesses that we contributed to FBR Capital Markets prior to completion of the FBR Capital Markets 2006 private offering. In the future we may be the subject of indemnification assertions under these charter documents or agreements by our affiliates who are or may become defendants in litigation. Amounts paid pursuant to these indemnification agreements could adversely affect our financial results and the amount of cash available for distribution to stockholders. Risks Related to our Principal Investing Activities Continued adverse developments in the residential mortgage market may adversely affect the value of our agency securities and our ability to borrow against our agency security assets. During the past year, the residential mortgage market in the United States has experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions that may adversely affect the performance and market value of the mortgage securities in which we invest. Securities backed by residential mortgage loans originated in 2006 and 2007 have experienced a higher and earlier than expected rate of delinquencies. Additionally, other earlier 20 Table of Contents vintages of MBS may not be performing as expected. Many MBS have been downgraded by the rating agencies during the past year and the rating agencies may in the future downgrade MBS. As a result, the market for these securities may be adversely affected for a significant period of time. The increase in delinquencies described above has not been limited to “subprime” mortgage loans, which are made to borrowers with impaired credit. The increase in delinquencies has also affected “Alt-A” mortgage loans, which are made to borrowers with limited documentation, and also “prime” mortgage loans, which are made to borrowers with excellent credit who provide full documentation. During the past year, housing prices and appraisal values in many states have declined or stopped appreciating, after extended periods of significant appreciation. A continued decline or an extended flattening of those values may result in additional increases in delinquencies and losses on residential mortgage loans generally, particularly with respect to second homes and investor properties and with respect to any residential mortgage loans whose aggregate loan amounts (including any subordinate liens) are close to or greater than the related property values. Another factor that may in the future contribute to higher delinquency rates is the potential increase in monthly payments on adjustable rate mortgage loans. Borrowers with adjustable rate mortgage loans may be exposed to increased monthly payments if the related mortgage interest rate adjusts upward from the initial fixed rate or a low introductory rate, as applicable, in effect during the initial period of the mortgage loan to the rate computed in accordance with the applicable index and margin. This increase in borrowers’ monthly payments, together with any increase in prevailing market interest rates, after the initial fixed rate period, may result in significantly increased monthly payments for borrowers with adjustable rate mortgage loans and an increase in default on their obligations. Current market conditions may impair borrowers’ ability to refinance or sell their properties, which may contribute to higher delinquency and default rates. Borrowers seeking to avoid increased monthly payments by refinancing may no longer be able to find available replacement loans at comparably low interest rates. A decline in housing prices may also leave borrowers with insufficient equity in their homes to permit them to refinance. Borrowers who intended to sell their homes or refinance their existing mortgage loans on or before the expiration of the fixed rate periods on their mortgage loans may find that they cannot sell their property for an amount equal to or greater than the unpaid principal balance of their loans or obtain new financing at lower rates. In addition, some mortgage loans may include prepayment premiums that may further inhibit refinancing. Servicers of residential mortgage loans also have the authority to modify mortgage loans that are in default, or for which default is reasonably foreseeable, if such modifications are in the best interests of the holders of the mortgage securities and such modifications are done in accordance with the terms of the relevant agreements. Loan modifications are more likely to be used when borrowers are less able to refinance or sell their homes due to market conditions, and when the potential recovery from a foreclosure is reduced due to lower property values. A significant number of loan modifications could result in a significant reduction in cash flows to the holders of the mortgage securities on an ongoing basis. Over the past year, a number of originators of mortgage loans have experienced serious financial difficulties and, in many cases, have entered bankruptcy proceedings. These difficulties have resulted in part from declining markets for their mortgage loans as well as from claims for repurchases of mortgage loans previously sold under provisions that require repurchase in the event of early payment defaults or for breaches of representations regarding loan quality. In addition, a rising interest rate environment and declining real estate values may decrease the number of borrowers seeking or able to refinance their mortgage loans, which would result in a decrease in overall originations. Various federal, state and local regulatory authorities have taken or proposed actions that could hinder the ability of the servicer to foreclose promptly on defaulted mortgage loans. Any such actions may adversely affect the performance of the loans and the yield on and value of the mortgage securities. 21 Table of Contents Investors should consider that the general market conditions discussed above may adversely affect the market value of the securities in our MBS portfolio and make it difficult or more expensive for us to borrow against those securities. The conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and related efforts, along with any changes in laws and regulations affecting the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the federal government, may adversely affect our business. Due to increased market concerns about Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s ability to withstand future credit losses associated with securities held in their investment portfolios, and on which they provide guarantees, without the direct support of the federal government, on July 30, 2008, the government passed the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (HERA). On September 7, 2008, the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) placed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into conservatorship and, together with the U.S. Treasury, established a program designed to boost investor confidence in Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s debt and mortgage-backed securities. As the conservator of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the FHFA controls and directs the operations of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and may (1) take over the assets of and operate Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac with all the powers of the shareholders, the directors and the officers of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and conduct all business of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac; (2) collect all obligations and money due to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac; (3) perform all functions of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac which are consistent with the conservator’s appointment; (4) preserve and conserve the assets and property of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac; and (5) contract for assistance in fulfilling any function, activity, action or duty of the conservator. A primary focus of this new legislation is to increase the availability of mortgage financing by allowing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to continue to grow their guarantee business without limit, while limiting net purchases of agency-backed MBS to a modest amount through the end of 2009. Beginning in 2010, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will gradually reduce their agency security portfolios. In addition to FHFA becoming the conservator of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the U.S. Department of Treasury, or the U.S. Treasury, has taken three additional actions: (i) the U.S. Treasury and FHFA have entered into preferred stock purchase agreements between the U.S. Treasury and Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac pursuant to which the U.S. Treasury will ensure that each of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac maintains a positive net worth; (ii) the U.S. Treasury has established a new secured lending credit facility which will be available to Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Home Loan Banks, which is intended to serve as a liquidity backstop, which will be available until December 2009; and (iii) the U.S. Treasury has initiated a temporary program to purchase agency-backed MBS issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Initially, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac each issued $1.0 billion of senior preferred stock to the U.S. Treasury and warrants to purchase 79.9% of the fully-diluted common stock outstanding of each government sponsored enterprise, or GSE, at a nominal exercise price. Pursuant to these agreements, each of Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s mortgage and agency security portfolio may not exceed $850 billion as of December 31, 2009, and will decline by 10% each year until such portfolio reaches $250 billion. Given the highly fluid and evolving nature of these events, it is unclear how our business will be impacted. Although the U.S. Treasury has committed capital to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, there can be no assurance that these actions will be adequate for their needs. If these actions are inadequate, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could continue to suffer losses and could fail to honor their guarantees and other obligations. The future roles of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could be significantly reduced and the nature of their guarantees could be considerably limited relative to historical measurements. Any changes to the nature of the guarantees provided by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could redefine what constitutes an agency security and could have broad adverse market implications. The size and timing of the federal government’s agency security purchase program is subject to the discretion of the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury, who has indicated that the scale of the program will be based on developments in the capital markets and housing markets. Purchases under this program have already begun, but 22 Table of Contents there is no certainty that the U.S. Treasury will continue to purchase additional agency-backed MBS in the future. The U.S. Treasury can hold its portfolio of agency-backed MBS to maturity, and, based on mortgage market conditions, may make adjustments to the portfolio. This flexibility may adversely affect the pricing and availability for our target assets. It is also possible that the U.S. Treasury’s commitment to purchase agency-backed MBS in the future could create additional demand that would negatively affect the pricing of agency-backed MBS that we seek to acquire. The U.S. Treasury could also stop providing credit support to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the future. The U.S. Treasury’s authority to purchase agency-backed MBS and to provide financial support to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac under the HERA expires on December 31, 2009. The problems faced by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac resulting in their being placed into conservatorship have stirred debate among some federal policy makers regarding the continued role of the federal government in providing liquidity for mortgage loans. Following expiration of the current authorization, each of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could be dissolved and the federal government could stop providing liquidity support of any kind to the mortgage market. If Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac were eliminated, or their structures were to change radically, we would not be able to acquire agency-backed MBS from these companies, which would eliminate the major component of our business model. Our income could be negatively affected in a number of ways depending on the manner in which related events unfold. For example, the current credit support provided by the U.S. Treasury to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and any additional credit support it may provide in the future, could have the effect of lowering the interest rate we expect to receive from agency-backed MBS that we seek to acquire, thereby tightening the spread between the interest we earn on our portfolio of targeted assets and our cost of financing that portfolio. A reduction in the supply of agency-backed MBS could also negatively affect the pricing of agency-backed MBS we seek to acquire by reducing the spread between the interest we earn on our portfolio of targeted assets and our cost of financing that portfolio. As indicated above, recent legislation has changed the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the federal government and requires Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to reduce the amount of mortgage loans they own or for which they provide guarantees on agency-backed MBS. Future legislation could further change the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the federal government, and could also nationalize or eliminate such entities entirely. Any law affecting these GSEs may create market uncertainty and have the effect of reducing the actual or perceived credit quality of securities issued or guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. As a result, such laws could increase the risk of loss on investments in Fannie Mae and/or Freddie Mac agency security. It also is possible that such laws could adversely impact the market for such securities and spreads at which they trade. All of the foregoing could materially adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition. On November 25, 2008, the Federal Reserve announced that it will initiate a program to purchase $100 billion in direct obligations of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Home Loan Banks and $500 billion in agency-backed MBS backed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae. The Federal Reserve stated that its actions are intended to reduce the cost and increase the availability of credit for the purchase of houses, which in turn should support housing markets and foster improved conditions in financial markets more generally. The purchases of direct obligations began during the first week of December 2008, and the purchases of agency-backed MBS began in early January 2009. The Federal Reserve’s program to purchase agency-backed MBS could cause an increase in the price of agency-backed MBS, which would negatively impact the net interest margin with respect to new agency-backed MBS we may purchase. 23 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that the actions of the U.S. Treasury, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets, or market response to those actions, will achieve the intended effects, our business may not benefit from these actions and further government or market developments could adversely impact us. In response to the financial issues affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, or EESA, was enacted on October 3, 2008. The EESA provided the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury with the authority to establish the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, to purchase from financial institutions up to $700 billion of residential or commercial mortgages and any securities, obligations, or other instruments that are based on or related to such mortgages, that in each case was originated or issued on or before March 14, 2008, as well as any other financial instrument that the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury, after consultation with the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, determines the purchase of which is necessary to promote financial market stability, upon transmittal of such determination, in writing, to the appropriate committees of the U.S. Congress. The EESA also provides for a program that would allow companies to insure their troubled assets. On October 14, 2008, the U.S. Treasury announced the voluntary Capital Purchase Program, or the CPP, which was implemented under authority provided in the EESA. Under the CPP, the U.S. Treasury will purchase up to $250 billion of senior preferred shares in qualifying U.S. controlled banks, savings associations, and certain bank and savings and loan holding companies engaged only in financial activities that elect to participate by November 14, 2008. Nine of the largest banks in the United States, as well as other financial institutions, have accepted investments under the CPP. The U.S. Treasury has also taken under consideration the expansion of the CPP to non-financial institutions, including life or other insurance companies. As of January 30, 2009, the U.S. Treasury Department has made $195.3 billion of investments, receiving preferred stock and warrants from participating institutions. There can be no assurance that programs and proposals recently initiated and announced by the U.S. Treasury or Federal Reserve will have a beneficial impact on the financial markets, including current extreme levels of volatility. To the extent the market does not respond favorably to these programs and proposals or the initiatives do not function as intended, our business may not receive the anticipated positive impact from the legislation. In addition, the U.S. Treasury, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking other actions to address the financial crisis. We cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur or what impact, if any, such actions could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. To the extent that we invest in agency-backed MBS that are guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, we are subject to the risk that these U.S. Government-sponsored entities may not be able to fully satisfy their guarantee obligations or that these guarantee obligations may be repudiated, which may adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio and our ability to sell or finance these securities. The interest and principal payments we receive on the agency-backed MBS in which we invest are guaranteed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae. Unlike the Ginnie Mae certificates in which we may invest, the principal and interest on securities issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are not guaranteed by the U.S. government. All the agency-backed MBS in which we invest depend on a steady stream of payments on the mortgages underlying the securities. As conservator of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, FHFA may disaffirm or repudiate contracts (subject to certain limitations for qualified financial contracts) that Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae entered into prior to FHFA’s appointment as conservator if it determines, in its sole discretion, that performance of the contract is burdensome and that disaffirmation or repudiation of the contract promotes the orderly administration of its affairs. The HERA requires FHFA to exercise its right to disaffirm or repudiate most contracts within a reasonable period of time after its appointment as conservator. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have disclosed that the FHFA has 24 Table of Contents disaffirmed certain consulting and other contracts that these entities entered into prior to FHFA’s appointment as conservator. Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae have also disclosed that the FHFA has advised that it does not intend to repudiate any guarantee obligation relating to Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s mortgage-related securities, because FHFA views repudiation as incompatible with the goals of the conservatorship. In addition, the HERA provides that mortgage loans and mortgage-related assets that have been transferred to a Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae securitization trust must be held for the beneficial owners of the related mortgage-related securities, and cannot be used to satisfy the general creditors of Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae. If the guarantee obligations of Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae were repudiated by FHFA, payments of principal and/or interest to holders of agency-backed MBS issued by Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae would be reduced in the event of any borrowers’ late payments or failure to pay or a servicer’s failure to remit borrower payments to the trust. In that case, trust administration and servicing fees could be paid from mortgage payments prior to distributions to holders of agency-backed MBS. Any actual direct compensatory damages owed due to the repudiation of Freddie Mac’s or Fannie Mae’s guarantee obligations may not be sufficient to offset any shortfalls experienced by holders of agency-backed MBS. FHFA also has the right to transfer or sell any asset or liability of Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae, including its guarantee obligation, without any approval, assignment or consent. If FHFA were to transfer Freddie Mac’s or Fannie Mae’s guarantee obligations to another party, holders of agency-backed MBS would have to rely on that party for satisfaction of the guarantee obligation and would be exposed to the credit risk of that party. New laws may be passed affecting the relationship between Fannie Mae and/or Freddie Mac, on the one hand, and the U.S. Government, on the other, which could adversely affect the availability and pricing of agency-backed MBS. Legislation has been passed and additional legislation may be proposed in the future to change the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, on the one hand, and the U.S. Government, on the other hand, or that requires Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to reduce the amount of mortgages they own or limit the amount of securities they guarantee. If any such further legislation is enacted into law, it may lead to market uncertainty and the actual or perceived impairment in the credit quality of securities issued by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. This may increase the risk of loss on investments in Fannie Mae- and/or Freddie Mac-issued securities. Any legislation requiring Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac to reduce the amount of mortgages they own or for which they guarantee payments on could adversely affect the availability and pricing of agency-backed MBS and therefore, adversely affect our business prospects. Market conditions may upset the historical relationship between interest rate changes and prepayment trends, which would make it more difficult for us to analyze our investment portfolio. Our success depends on our ability to analyze the relationship of changing interest rates on prepayments of the mortgage loans that underlie our MBS. Changes in interest rates and prepayments affect the market price of MBS that we intend to purchase and any MBS that we hold at a given time. As part of our overall portfolio risk management, we analyze interest rate changes and prepayment trends separately and collectively to assess their effects on our investment portfolio. In conducting our analysis, we will depend on certain assumptions based upon historical trends with respect to the relationship between interest rates and prepayments under normal market conditions. If the recent dislocations in the residential mortgage market or other developments change the way that prepayment trends have historically responded to interest rate changes, our ability to (i) assess the market value of our investment portfolio, (ii) implement our hedging strategies and (iii) implement techniques to reduce our prepayment rate volatility would be significantly affected, which could materially adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents Mortgage loan modification programs, future legislative action and changes in the requirements necessary to qualify for refinancing a mortgage with Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae may adversely affect the value of, and the returns, on the MBS in which we invest. During the second half of 2008 and in early 2009, the U.S. government, through the FHA and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC, commenced implementation of programs designed to provide homeowners with assistance in avoiding residential mortgage loan foreclosures including the Hope for Homeowners Act of 2008, which allows certain distressed borrowers to refinance their mortgages into FHA-insured loans. The programs may also involve, among other things, the modification of mortgage loans to reduce the principal amount of the loans or the rate of interest payable on the loans, or to extend the payment terms of the loans. Members of the U.S. Congress have indicated support for additional legislative relief for homeowners, including an amendment of the bankruptcy laws to permit the modification of mortgage loans in bankruptcy proceedings. These loan modification programs, future legislative or regulatory actions, including amendments to the bankruptcy laws, that result in the modification of outstanding mortgage loans, as well as changes in the requirements necessary to qualify for refinancing a mortgage with Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, our MBS. Depending on whether or not the bond was purchased at a premium or discount the yield may be positively or negatively impacted. Declines in the market values of the securities in our MBS portfolio may adversely affect periodic reported results and credit availability, which may reduce earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to our stockholders. A substantial portion of our assets are classified for accounting purposes either as “trading securities” or as “available-for-sale.” Changes in the market values of those assets will be directly charged or credited to stockholders’ equity. As a result, a decline in value may reduce the book value of our assets. Moreover, if the decline in value of an available-for-sale security is other-than-temporary, such decline will reduce earnings, as will a decline in the value of our securities classified as trading securities for accounting purposes. A decline in the market value of the securities in our MBS portfolio may adversely affect us particularly in instances where we have borrowed money based on the market value of those assets. If the market value of those assets declines, the lender may require us to post additional collateral to support the loan. If we were unable to post the additional collateral, we would have to sell the assets at a time when we might not otherwise choose to do so. A reduction in credit available may reduce our earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to shareholders. Our mortgage investing strategy involves leverage, which could adversely affect our operations and negatively affect cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Using debt to finance the purchase of MBS will expose us to the risk that margin calls will be made and that we will not be able to meet those margin calls. To meet margin calls, we may sell the applicable mortgage-related securities and such sales could result in realized losses, and negatively affect cash available for distribution to our shareholders. While it is not our current policy to leverage the equity securities or loan investments in our merchant banking portfolio, if we were to leverage these investments, this leverage could expose us to the risk that margin calls will be made and that we will not be able to meet them. A leveraged company’s income and net assets will tend to increase or decrease at a greater rate than if borrowed money were not used. We enter into repurchase agreements to finance our MBS, which can amplify the effect of a decline in value resulting from an interest rate increase. For example, assume that we finance $96 million of MBS through repurchase agreements to acquire $100 million of 8% MBS. If prevailing interest rates were to increase sufficiently, the value of the MBS may decline to a level below the amount required to be maintained under the terms of the repurchase agreements. If the MBS were then sold, we would have to transfer additional assets to secure the borrowings. 26 Table of Contents Changes in interest rates could negatively affect the value of our MBS, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We invest indirectly in mortgage loans by purchasing MBS and we currently intend to continue this investment strategy. Under a normal yield curve, an investment in MBS will decline in value if long-term interest rates increase. Despite Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae guarantees of the agency-backed MBS we own, those guarantees do not protect us from declines in market value caused by changes in interest rates. Declines in market value may ultimately reduce earnings or result in losses to us, which may negatively affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders. A significant risk associated with our portfolio of mortgage-related assets is the risk that both long-term and short-term interest rates will increase significantly. If long-term rates were to increase significantly, the market value of these MBS would decline and the weighted average life of the investments would increase. We have realized losses in last three years, and could realize a loss in the future if the MBS were sold. At the same time, an increase in short-term interest rates would increase the amount of interest owed on the repurchase agreements we enter into in order to finance the purchase of MBS. Market values of MBS may decline without any general increase in interest rates for a number of reasons, such as increases in defaults, increases in voluntary prepayments and widening of credit spreads. In addition, changes in interest rates may impact some our merchant banking equity investments in non-conforming mortgage loan originators and other companies whose business models are sensitive to interest rates. Limitations on our access to capital could impair our liquidity and our ability to conduct our business. Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to our business. Failures of similar businesses have often been attributable in large part to insufficient liquidity. Liquidity is of particular importance to our business and perceived liquidity issues may affect our clients’ and counterparties’ willingness to engage in transactions with us. Our liquidity could be impaired due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects us or third parties. Further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to sell similar assets at the same time. In addition, our access to funds held by FBR Capital Markets and its subsidiaries is subject to approval by a majority of the disinterested directors serving on the FBR Capital Markets Board of Directors. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to access these funds. Regulatory requirements applicable to FBR Capital Markets’ broker-dealer subsidiaries could also limit our ability to access funds held by FBR Capital Markets and its subsidiaries. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to access funds from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations as they come due. If we cannot obtain funding from third parties or from our subsidiaries, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. An increase in our borrowing costs relative to the interest we receive on our mortgage-related assets may adversely affect our profitability, which may negatively affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders. As our repurchase agreements and other short-term borrowing instruments mature, we will be required either to enter into new repurchase agreements or to sell a portion of our mortgage-related assets or other investment securities. Current conditions in the credit markets may make it impracticable to enter into new repurchase agreements or other short-term facilities “—Risks Related to Adverse Market Conditions.” An increase in short-term interest rates at the time that we seek to enter into new repurchase agreements would reduce the spread between our returns on our mortgage-related assets and the cost of our borrowings. This change in interest rates would adversely affect our returns on our mortgage-related assets portfolio, which might reduce earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to our stockholders. 27 Table of Contents Prepayment rates could negatively affect the value of our MBS, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In the case of residential mortgage loans, there are seldom any restrictions on borrowers’ abilities to prepay their loans. Homeowners tend to prepay mortgage loans faster when interest rates decline. Consequently, owners of the loans have to reinvest the money received from the prepayments at the lower prevailing interest rates. Conversely, homeowners tend not to prepay mortgage loans when interest rates increase. Consequently, owners of the loans are unable to reinvest money that would have otherwise been received from prepayments at the higher prevailing interest rates. This volatility in prepayment rates may affect our ability to maintain targeted amounts of leverage on our mortgage-based securities portfolio and may result in reduced earnings or losses for us and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Despite Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae guarantees of principal and interest related to the agency-backed MBS we own, those guarantees do not protect us against prepayment risks. Rapid changes in the values of our investments may make it more difficult for us to maintain our exemption from the 1940 Act. Changes in the market value or income potential of certain of our investments may prevent us from maintaining our exemption from the 1940 Act. We may have to make investment decisions that we otherwise would not make absent the 1940 Act requirements. Hedging against interest rate exposure may adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our shareholders. We have entered into and may enter into interest rate swap agreements or pursue other hedging strategies. Our hedging activity will vary in scope based on the level and volatility of interest rates and principal prepayments, the type of MBS held, and other changing market conditions. Interest rate hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things: • interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates; • available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought; • the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability; • the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; and • the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay. Our hedging activity may adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our shareholders. We may change our mortgage investment strategy, hedging strategy, asset allocation and operational policies without shareholder consent, which may result in riskier investments and adversely affect the market value of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. We may change our mortgage investment strategy, hedging strategy, asset allocation and operational policies at any time without the consent of our shareholders, which could result in our making investments or hedges that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the investments and hedges described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A change in our investment or hedging strategy may increase our exposure to interest rate, and real estate market fluctuations. A change in our asset allocation could result in us making investments in instrument categories different from those described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Board of Directors determines our operational policies and may amend or revise our policies, including those with respect 28 Table of Contents to our acquisitions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions or approve transactions that deviate from these policies without a vote of, or notice to, our shareholders. Operational policy changes could adversely affect the market value of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Loans that we may make to highly leveraged companies may have a greater risk of loss which, in turn, could adversely affect our earnings and cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Leverage may have material adverse consequences to the companies to which we may make loans to the extent we make these types of principal investments and to us as an investor in these companies. These companies may be subject to restrictive financial and operating covenants. Leverage may impair these companies’ ability to finance their future operations and capital needs. As a result, these companies’ flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to business opportunities may be limited. A leveraged company’s income and net assets will tend to increase or decrease at a greater rate than if borrowed money were not used. As a result, leveraged companies have a greater risk of loss. Our due diligence may not reveal all of a portfolio company’s liabilities and may not reveal other weaknesses in a portfolio company’s business. Before making an investment in a business entity, we assess the strength and skills of the entity’s management and other factors that we believe will determine the success of the investment. In making the assessment and otherwise conducting customary due diligence, we rely on the resources available to us and, in some cases, an investigation by third parties. This process is particularly important and subjective with respect to newly-organized entities because there may be little or no information publicly available about the companies. We cannot assure you that our due diligence processes will uncover all relevant facts or risks about a company or investment that we make, or that any investment will be successful. Any unsuccessful investment may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on management and have limited ability to influence management of portfolio companies. We generally do not control the management, investment decisions or operations of the enterprises in which we have investments. Management of those enterprises may decide to change the nature of their assets or business plan, or management may otherwise change in a manner that is not satisfactory to us. We typically have no ability to affect these management decisions, and as noted below, may have only limited ability to dispose of these investments. We may make merchant banking investments that have limited liquidity, which may reduce the return on those investments to our stockholders. The equity securities of a new publicly-held or privately-held entity in which we invest are likely to be restricted as to resale and may otherwise be highly illiquid. We expect that there will be restrictions on our ability to resell the securities of any private or newly-public company that we acquire for a period of at least one year after we acquire those securities. A public market sale may be subject to volume limitations or dependent upon securing a registration statement for a secondary offering of the securities. The securities of newly-public entities may trade less frequently and in smaller volume than securities of companies that are more widely held and have more established trading patterns. Sales of these securities may cause their values to fluctuate more sharply. Because we are affiliated with FBR Capital Markets, our ability to invest in companies whose securities are underwritten or privately placed by FBR Capital Markets will be restricted by applicable securities laws and regulations and the rules of FINRA and similar self-regulatory organizations. Prices of the equity securities of new entities in which we invest may be volatile. We may make investments that are significant relative to the portfolio company’s overall capitalization, and resales of significant amounts of these securities might adversely affect the market and the sales price for the securities. The short- and medium-term loans we make are based, in part, upon our knowledge of the borrower and its industry. In addition, we do not yet nor may we ever have a significant enough portfolio of loans to easily sell them to a third party. As a result, these loans are and may continue to be highly illiquid. 29 Table of Contents Disposition value of our merchant banking investments is dependent upon general and specific market conditions which could result in a decline of the value of the investments. Even if we make an appropriate investment decision based on the intrinsic value of an enterprise, we cannot assure you that the trading market value of the investment will not decline, perhaps materially, as a result of general market conditions. For example, an increase in interest rates, a general decline in the stock markets, or other market conditions adverse to companies of the type in which we invest could result in a decline in the value of our investments. The market for investment opportunities is competitive, which could make it difficult for us to purchase or originate investments at attractive yields, which could have an adverse effect on cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We gain access to investment opportunities only to the extent that they become known to us. Gaining access to investment opportunities is highly competitive. We compete with other companies that have greater capital, more long-standing relationships, broader product offerings and other advantages. Competitors include, but are not limited to, business development companies, small business investment companies, commercial lenders and mezzanine funds and other broker-dealers. Increased competition would make it more difficult for us to purchase or originate investments at attractive yields, which could have an adverse effect on cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We may incur losses as a result of our merchant banking and other principal investments. We may invest, either directly or through funds managed by FBR Capital Markets, in companies in the early stages of their development or in industry sectors that are historically volatile. Our business and prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in early stages of development, particularly companies in new and rapidly evolving markets. Moreover, investments made by us or funds in which we invest may be in privately held companies as to which little public information is available. Accordingly, either we or the fund managers of the funds in which we invest may not be successful in obtaining adequate information to evaluate potential returns. Also, these companies frequently have less diverse product lines and smaller market presence than large competitors. They are thus generally more vulnerable to economic downturns and may experience substantial variations in operating results. Moreover, many of our portfolio companies will require additional equity funding to satisfy their continuing working capital requirements. Because of the circumstances of those companies or market conditions, it is possible that one or more of these portfolio companies will not be able to raise additional financing or may be able to do so only at a price or on terms that are unfavorable to them. Adverse returns with respect to these investments could adversely affect us and our operating results, which could negatively affect the market price of our Class A common stock and our ability to pay dividends. Tax Risks of our Business and Structure Our ability to use net operating loss carryovers and net capital loss carryovers to reduce our taxable income may be limited. Historically, we have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code and were generally not subject to corporate income tax to the extent we currently distributed our taxable income to our stockholders. We elected to revoke our status as a REIT effective as of January 1, 2009, in part to maximize the use of potential tax benefits flowing from our existing NOLs or NCLs and certain other tax attributes. We must have taxable income or gains to benefit from theses NOLs, NCLs and certain other tax attributes. Although we believe that a significant portion of our NOLs will be utilized to offset the 2009 taxable income of our former taxable REIT subsidiaries, no assurance can be provided that we will have taxable income or gains in the future to apply against our remaining NOLs and NCLs. 30 Table of Contents In addition, our NOL and NCL carryovers may be limited by Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code if we undergo an “ownership change.” Generally, an “ownership change” occurs if certain persons or groups increase their aggregate ownership in our company by more than 50 percentage points looking back over the relevant testing period. If an ownership change occurs, our ability to use our NOLs, NCLs and certain recognized built-in losses to reduce our taxable income in a future year would be limited to a Section 382 limitation equal to the fair market value of our stock immediately prior to the ownership change multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt interest rate in effect for the month of the ownership change. The long-term tax-exempt rate for March 2009 is 5.49%. In the event of an ownership change, NOLs and NCLs that exceed the Section 382 limitation in any year will continue to be allowed as carryforwards for the remainder of the carryforward period and such losses can be used to offset taxable income for years within the carryforward period subject to the Section 382 limitation in each year. However, if the carryforward period for any NOL or NCL were to expire before that loss had been fully utilized, the unused portion of that loss would be lost. The carryforward period for NOLs is 20 years from the year in which the losses giving rise to the NOLs were incurred, and the carryforward period for NCL is five years from the year in which the losses giving rise to the NCL were incurred. Our use of new NOLs or NCLs arising after the date of an ownership change would not be affected by the Section 382 limitation (unless there were another ownership change after those new losses arose). Based on our knowledge of our stock ownership, we do not believe that an ownership change has occurred since our losses were generated. Accordingly, we believe that at the current time there is no annual limitation imposed on our use of our NOLs and NCLs to reduce future taxable income. The determination of whether an ownership change has occurred or will occur is complicated and depends on changes in percentage stock ownership among stockholders. There are currently no restrictions on the transfer of our stock that would discourage or prevent transactions that could cause an ownership change, although we may adopt such restrictions in the future. In addition, we have not obtained, and currently do not plan to obtain, a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, regarding our conclusion as to whether our losses are subject to any such limitations. Furthermore, we may decide in the future that it is necessary or in our interest to take certain actions that could result in an ownership change. Therefore, no assurance can be provided as to whether an ownership change has occurred or will occur in the future. Preserving the ability to use our NOLs and NCLs may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities. Limitations imposed by Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code may discourage us from, among other things, redeeming our stock or issuing additional stock to raise capital or to acquire businesses or assets. Accordingly, our desire to preserve our NOLs and NCLs may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities. Failure to qualify as a REIT in prior years would subject us to federal income tax. Prior to our 2009 tax year, we operated in a manner that was intended to cause us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. However, the tax laws governing REITs are extremely complex, and interpretations of the tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. Qualifying as a REIT required us to meet numerous income and other tests. Given the highly complex nature of the rules governing REITs, the ongoing importance of factual determinations, and the possibility of changes in our circumstances, no assurance can be given that we qualified for any particular year. If we failed to qualify as a REIT prior to our 2009 tax year and we do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we would have to pay federal income tax on our taxable income for the year of the failure and for the following four years. Our payment of income tax attributable to our failure to qualify as a REIT prior to our 2009 taxable year would decrease the amount of our income available for distribution to our stockholders. 31 Table of Contents If we make distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, those distributions will be treated as a return of capital, which will reduce the adjusted basis of your stock, and to the extent such distributions exceed your adjusted basis, you may recognize a capital gain. Unless you are a tax-exempt entity, distributions that we make to you generally will be subject to tax as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits as determined for federal income tax purposes. If the amount we distribute to you exceeds your allocable share of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, the excess will be treated as a return of capital to the extent of your adjusted basis in your stock. This will reduce your basis in your stock but will not be subject to tax. If the amount we distribute to you exceeds both your allocable share of our current and accumulated earnings and profits and your adjusted basis, this amount will be treated as a gain from the sale or exchange of a capital asset. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 