Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors and all other information contained in this report should be considered carefully when evaluating us. These risk factors could affect our actual results. Other risks and uncertainties, in addition to those that are described below, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be affected materially and adversely. In that case, we may be unable to pay dividends to our shareholders and the trading price of our common shares could decline. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other detailed information concerning us set forth in our accompanying financial statements and notes and contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included herein. Our cash flow consists almost exclusively of distributions from Crosstex Energy, L.P. Our only cash-generating assets are our partnership interests in Crosstex Energy, L.P. Our cash flow is therefore completely dependent upon the ability of the Partnership to make distributions to its partners. The Partnership’s bank credit facility and senior secured note agreement contain covenants limiting its ability to make distributions to unitholders so long as it does not meet certain financial ratios and tests. Under the amended bank credit facility and senior secured note agreement, it may not make quarterly distributions to its unitholders unless the PIK notes have been repaid and the leverage ratio, as defined in the agreements, is less than 4.25 to 1.00. If the leverage ratio is between 4.00 to 1.00 and 4.25 to 1.00, it may make the minimum quarterly distribution of up to $0.25 unit if the PIK notes have been repaid. If the leverage ratio is less than 4.00 to 1.00, it may make quarterly distributions to unitholders from available cash as provided by its partnership agreement if the PIK notes have been 22 Table of Contents repaid. The PIK notes are due six months after the earlier of the refinancing or maturity of its bank credit facility. In order to repay the PIK notes prior to their scheduled maturity, the Partnership will need to amend or refinance its bank credit facility. Based on the amended provisions in the Partnership’s credit facility, its current anticipated cash flows for 2009 and current economic conditions, it does not currently expect to be able to pay distributions to its unitholders in 2009 other than the distribution paid in February 2009 related to fourth quarter 2008 operating results. Even if it does not pay a distribution to unitholders, its unitholders, including us, may be liable for taxes on their share of the Partnership’s taxable income. We do not anticipate making any future dividend payments after the dividend payment in February 2009 with respect to fourth quarter 2008 operating results until we begin receiving distributions from the Partnership again. In addition, even if the Partnership’s credit documents do not prohibit it from making distributions, the Partnership still may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to pay distributions to unitholders. The amount of cash that the Partnership can distribute to its partners, including us, each quarter principally depends upon the amount of cash it generates from its operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the amount of natural gas transported in its gathering and transmission pipelines; • the level of the Partnership’s processing and treating operations; • the fees the Partnership charges and the margins it realizes for its services; • the price of natural gas; • the relationship between natural gas and NGL prices; • its level of operating costs; and • restrictions on distributions contained in its bank credit facility. In addition, the actual amount of cash the Partnership will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond its control, including: • the level of capital expenditures the Partnership makes; • the cost of acquisitions, if any; • its debt service requirements; • fluctuations in its working capital needs; • its ability to make working capital borrowings under its bank credit facility to pay distributions; • prevailing economic conditions; and • the amount of cash reserves established by the general partner in its sole discretion for the proper conduct of its business. Because of these factors, even if the Partnership’s credit documents do not prohibit it from making distributions, the Partnership still may not be able, or may not have sufficient available cash to pay distributions to unitholders each quarter. Furthermore, you should also be aware that the amount of cash the Partnership has available for distribution depends primarily upon its cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves and working capital borrowings, and is not solely a function of profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, the Partnership may make cash distributions during periods when it records losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when it records net income. We are largely prohibited from engaging in activities that compete with the Partnership. So long as we own the general partner of the Partnership, we are prohibited by an omnibus agreement with the Partnership from engaging in the business of gathering, transmitting, treating, processing, storing and marketing natural gas and transporting, fractionating, storing and marketing NGLs, except to the extent that the Partnership, with the concurrence of its independent directors comprising its conflicts committee, elects not to engage in a 23 Table of Contents particular acquisition or expansion opportunity. This exception for competitive activities is relatively limited. Although we have no current intention of pursuing the types of opportunities that we are permitted to pursue under the omnibus agreement such as competitive opportunities that the Partnership declines to pursue or permitted activities that are not competition with the Partnership, the provisions of the omnibus agreement may, in the future, limit activities that we would otherwise pursue. In our corporate charter, we have renounced business opportunities that may be pursued by the Partnership or by certain stockholders. In our restated charter and in accordance with Delaware law, we have renounced any interest or expectancy we may have in, or being offered an opportunity to participate in, any business opportunities, including any opportunities within those classes of opportunity currently pursued by the Partnership, presented to: • persons who are officers or directors of the company or who, on October 1, 2003, were, and at the time of presentation are, stockholders of the company (or to persons who are affiliates or associates of such officers, directors or stockholders), if the company is prohibited from participating in such opportunities by the omnibus agreement; or • any investment fund sponsored or managed by Yorktown Partners LLC, including any fund still to be formed, or to any of our directors who is an affiliate or designate of these entities. As a result of this renunciation, these officers, directors and stockholders should not be deemed to be breaching any fiduciary duty to us if they or their affiliates or associates pursue opportunities presented as described above. Although we control the Partnership, the general partner owes fiduciary duties to the Partnership and the unitholders. Conflicts of interest exist and may arise in the future as a result of the relationship between us and our affiliates, including the general partner, on the one hand, and the Partnership and its limited partners, on the other hand. The directors and officers of Crosstex Energy GP, LLC have fiduciary duties to manage the general partner in a manner beneficial to us, its owner. At the same time, the general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage the Partnership in a manner beneficial to the Partnership and its limited partners. The board of directors of Crosstex Energy GP, LLC will resolve any such conflict and has broad latitude to consider the interests of all parties to the conflict. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our best interest or that of our stockholders. For example, conflicts of interest may arise in the following situations: • the allocation of shared overhead expenses to the Partnership and us; • the interpretation and enforcement of contractual obligations between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and the Partnership, on the other hand, including obligations under the omnibus agreement; • the determination of the amount of cash to be distributed to the Partnership’s partners and the amount of cash to be reserved for the future conduct of the Partnership’s business; • the determination whether to make borrowings under the capital facility to pay distributions to partners; and • any decision we make in the future to engage in activities in competition with the Partnership as permitted under our omnibus agreement with the Partnership. If the general partner is not fully reimbursed or indemnified for obligations and liabilities it incurs in managing the business and affairs of the Partnership, its value, and therefore the value of our common stock, could decline. The general partner may make expenditures on behalf of the Partnership for which it will seek reimbursement from the Partnership. In addition, under Delaware partnership law, the general partner, in its capacity as the general partner of the Partnership, has unlimited liability for the obligations of the Partnership, such as its debts and environmental liabilities, except for those contractual obligations of the Partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. To the extent the general partner incurs obligations on behalf of the Partnership, it is 24 Table of Contents entitled to be reimbursed or indemnified by the general partner. In the event that the Partnership is unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify the general partner, the general partner may be unable to satisfy these liabilities or obligations, which would reduce its value and therefore the value of our common stock. The Partnership may not be able to obtain funding or obtain funding on acceptable terms because of the deterioration of the credit and capital markets. This may hinder or prevent the Partnership from meeting its future capital needs. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile, which has caused a substantial deterioration in the credit and capital markets. These conditions, along with significant write-offs in the financial services sector and the re-pricing of credit risk, have made, and will likely continue to make it, difficult to obtain funding for capital needs. Beginning in the second half of 2008, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets has diminished significantly. In particular, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of lending counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity at all or on terms similar to borrowers’ current debt and reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that new debt or equity financing will be available to us or to the Partnership on acceptable terms or at all. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we and the Partnership may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due. Moreover, without adequate funding, the Partnership may be unable to execute its growth strategy, complete future acquisitions or future construction projects or other capital expenditures, take advantage of other business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on revenues and results of operations. Further, the Partnership’s customers may increase collateral requirements or reduce the business the customers transact with the Partnership to reduce credit exposure. Due to current economic conditions, the Partnership’s ability to obtain funding under its bank credit facility could be impaired. The Partnership operates in a capital-intensive industry and relies on its bank credit facility to finance a significant portion of its capital expenditures. Its ability to borrow under the bank credit facility may be impaired because of the recent downturn in the financial markets, including issues surrounding the solvency of many institutional lenders and recent failures of several banks. Specifically, the Partnership may be unable to obtain adequate funding under its bank credit facility because: • one or more of its lenders may be unable or otherwise fail to meet its funding obligations; • the lenders do not have to provide funding if there is a default under the bank credit facility, or if any of the representations or warranties included in the agreement are false in any material respect; and • if any lender refuses to fund its commitment for any reason, whether or not valid, the other lenders are not required to provide additional funding to make up for the unfunded portion. On February 27, 2009, the Partnership entered into an amendment to its bank credit facility, revising certain financial and other restrictive covenants under this facility through its maturity date. See Item 1, “Business — Amendments to Credit Documents.” There can be no assurance that the Partnership will be able to comply with any newly-negotiated covenants in the future or that it will be able to obtain waivers or amendments of these covenants in the event of future noncompliance. If the Partnership is not in compliance with these covenants, and if it is unable to secure necessary waivers or other amendments from the counterparties, it will not have access to the bank credit facility, which could significantly affect its ability to meet expenses and operate its business. Further, such noncompliance could cause a default under the bank credit facility, which could result in acceleration of the Partnership’s outstanding debt. 25 Table of Contents If the Partnership is unable to access funds under its bank credit facility, it will need to meet capital requirements, including some of its short-term capital requirements, using other sources. Due to current economic conditions, alternative sources of liquidity may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If the cash generated from operations or the funds the Partnership is able to obtain under its bank credit facility or other sources of liquidity are not sufficient to meet capital requirements, then the Partnership may need to delay or abandon capital projects or other business opportunities, which could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, if the current pressures on credit continue or worsen, the Partnership may not be able to refinance its then-outstanding debt or replace its then-outstanding letters of credit when due, which could have a material adverse effect on its business. The Partnership’s profitability is dependent upon prices and market demand for natural gas and NGLs, which are beyond its control and have been volatile. The Partnership’s business is subject to significant risks due to fluctuations in commodity prices. Its exposure to these risks is primarily in the gas processing component of its business. A large percentage of the processing fees are realized under percent of liquids (POL) contracts that are directly impacted by the market price of NGLs. It also realizes processing gross margins under fractionation margin (margin) contracts. These settlements are impacted by the relationship between NGL prices and the underlying natural gas prices, which is also referred to as the fractionation spread. A significant volume of inlet gas at the Partnership’s south Louisiana and north Texas processing plants is settled under POL agreements. The POL fees are denominated in the form of a share of the liquids extracted and the Partnership is not responsible for the fuel or shrink associated with processing. Therefore, fee revenue under a POL agreement is directly impacted by NGL prices, and the decline of these prices in 2008 contributed to a significant decline in the Partnership’s gross margin from processing. The Partnership has a number of margin contracts on its Plaquemine and Gibson processing plants that expose it to the fractionation spread. Under these margin contracts our gross margin is based upon the difference in the value of NGLs extracted from the gas less the value of the product in its gaseous state and the cost of fuel to extract during processing. During the last half of 2008, the fractionation spread narrowed significantly as the value of NGLs decreased more than the value of the gas and fuel associated with the processed gas. Thus the gross margin realized under these margin contracts was negatively impacted due to the commodity price environment. The significant decline in crude oil prices and a related decline in NGL prices during the last half of 2008 had a significant negative impact on the Partnership’s margins, and may negatively impact its gross margin further if such declines continue. In the past, the prices of natural gas and NGLs have been extremely volatile and the Partnership expects this volatility to continue. For example, in 2007, the NYMEX settlement price for natural gas for the prompt month contract ranged from a high of $7.59 per MMBtu to a low of $5.43 per MMBtu. In 2008, the same index ranged from $6.46 per MMBtu to $13.10 per MMBtu. A composite of the OPIS Mt. Belvieu monthly average liquids price based upon the Partnership’s average liquids composition in 2007 ranged from a high of approximately $1.58 per gallon to a low of approximately $0.92 per gallon. In 2008, the same composite ranged from approximately $2.01 per gallon to approximately $0.56 per gallon. The Partnership may not be successful in balancing its purchases and sales. In addition, a producer could fail to deliver contracted volumes or deliver in excess of contracted volumes, or a consumer could purchase more or less than contracted volumes. Any of these actions could cause purchases and sales not to be balanced. If purchases and sales are not balanced, the Partnership will face increased exposure to commodity price risks and could have increased volatility in its operating income. The markets and prices for residue gas and NGLs depend upon factors beyond the Partnership’s control. These factors include demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs, which fluctuates with changes in market and economic conditions and other factors, including: • the impact of weather on the demand for oil and natural gas; • the level of domestic oil and natural gas production; • the level of domestic industrial and manufacturing activity; 26 Table of Contents • the availability of imported oil, natural gas and NGLs; • international demand for oil and NGLs; • actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations; • the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems; • the availability of downstream NGL fractionation facilities; • the availability and marketing of competitive fuels; • the impact of energy conservation efforts; and • the extent of governmental regulation and taxation. Changes in commodity prices may also indirectly impact the Partnership’s profitability by influencing drilling activity and well operations, and thus the volume of gas it can gather and process. This volatility may cause the Partnership gross margin and cash flows to vary widely from period to period. Hedging strategies may not be sufficient to offset price volatility risk and, in any event, do not cover all of the Partnership throughput volumes. Moreover, hedges are subject to inherent risks, which we describe in “— The Partnership’s use of derivative financial instruments does not eliminate its exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices and interest rates and has in the past and could in the future result in financial losses or reduced income.” For a discussion of our risk management activities, please read Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Due to the Partnership’s lack of asset diversification, adverse developments in its gathering, transmission, treating, processing and producer services businesses would materially impact its financial condition. The Partnership relies exclusively on the revenues generated from its gathering, transmission, treating, processing and producer services businesses, and as a result its financial condition depends upon prices of, and continued demand for, natural gas and NGLs. Due to the Partnership’s lack of asset diversification, an adverse development in one of these businesses would have a significantly greater impact on its financial condition and results of operations than if it maintained more diverse assets. Many of the Partnership’s customers’ drilling activity levels and spending for transportation on its pipeline system or gathering and processing at its facilities may be impacted by the current deterioration in the credit markets. Many of the Partnership’s customers finance their drilling activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. Recently, there has been a significant decline in the credit markets and the availability of credit. Additionally, many of its customers’ equity values have substantially declined. Adverse price changes, coupled with the overall downturn in the economy and the constrained capital markets, put downward pressure on drilling budgets for gas producers which could result in lower volumes being transported on the Partnership’s pipeline and gathering systems and processing through its processing plants. The Partnership has seen a decline in drilling activity by gas producers in its areas of operation during the fourth quarter of 2008. In addition, industry drilling rig count surveys published in early 2009 show substantial declines in rigs in operation as compared to 2008. Several of its customers, including one of its largest customers in the Barnett Shale, have recently announced drilling plans for 2009 that are substantially below their drilling levels during 2008. A significant reduction in drilling activity could have a material adverse effect on the Partnership operations. The Partnership is exposed to the credit risk of its customers and counterparties, and a general increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by those customers could have an adverse effect on financial condition and results of operations. Risks of nonpayment and nonperformance by the Partnership’s customers are a major concern in its business. The Partnership is subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by its customers and other counterparties, such as lenders and hedging counterparties. Any increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by its customers could adversely affect the results of operations and reduce the Partnership’s ability to make 27 Table of Contents distributions to its unitholders. Many of the Partnership’s customers finance their activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. Recently, there has been a significant decline in the credit markets and the availability of credit. Additionally, many of the Partnership’s customers’ equity values have substantially declined. The combination of reduction of cash flow resulting from declines in commodity prices, a reduction in borrowing bases under reserve based credit facilities and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may result in a significant reduction in customers’ liquidity and ability to make payment or perform on their obligations to the Partnership. Furthermore, some of the customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks, which increases the risk that they may default on their obligations to the Partnership. The Partnership’s use of derivative financial instruments does not eliminate exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices and interest rates and has in the past and could in the future result in financial losses or reductions in income. The Partnership’s operations expose it to fluctuations in commodity prices, and its bank credit facility exposes the Partnership to fluctuations in interest rates. The Partnership uses over-the-counter price and basis swaps with other natural gas merchants and financial institutions and interest rate swaps with financial institutions. Use of these instruments is intended to reduce its exposure to short-term volatility in commodity prices and interest rates. The Partnership has hedged only portions of its variable-rate debt and expected natural gas supply, NGL production and natural gas requirements. It continues to have direct interest rate and commodity price risk with respect to the unhedged portions. In addition, to the extent the Partnership hedges commodity price and interest rate risks using swap instruments, it will forego the benefits of favorable changes in commodity prices or interest rates. Even though monitored by management, the Partnership’s hedging activities may fail to protect it and could reduce earnings and cash flow. Its hedging activity may be ineffective or adversely affect cash flow and earnings because, among other factors: • hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of volatile prices; • the Partnership’s counterparty in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay or otherwise fail to perform; and • available hedges may not correspond directly with the risks against which the Partnership seeks protection. For example: • the duration of a hedge may not match the duration of the risk against which it seeks protection; • variations in the index used to price a commodity hedge may not adequately correlate with variations in the index used to sell the physical commodity (known as basis risk); and • the Partnership may not produce or process sufficient volumes to cover swap arrangements entered into for a given period. If its actual volumes are lower than the volumes it estimated when entering into a swap for the period, the Partnership might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of its derivative obligation without the benefit of cash flow from its sale or purchase of the underlying physical commodity, which could adversely affect liquidity. The Partnership’s financial statements may reflect gains or losses arising from exposure to commodity prices or interest rates for which it is unable to enter into fully economically effective hedges. In addition, the standards for cash flow hedge accounting are rigorous. Even when the Partnership engages in hedging transactions that are effective economically, these transactions may not be considered effective cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. Partnership earnings could be subject to increased volatility to the extent its derivatives do not continue to qualify as cash flow hedges, and, if the Partnership assumes derivatives as part of an acquisition, to the extent it cannot obtain or choose not to seek cash flow hedge accounting for the derivatives it assumes. Please read Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” for a summary of the Partnership hedging activities. 28 Table of Contents The Partnership must continually compete for natural gas supplies, and any decrease in its supplies of natural gas could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. If the Partnership is unable to maintain or increase the throughput on its systems by accessing new natural gas supplies to offset the natural decline in reserves, The Partnership’s business and financial results could be materially, adversely affected. In addition, its future growth will depend, in part, upon whether it can contract for additional supplies at a greater rate than the rate of natural decline in its currently connected supplies. In order to maintain or increase throughput levels in the Partnership’s natural gas gathering systems and asset utilization rates at the Partnership’s treating and processing plants, it must continually contract for new natural gas supplies. The Partnership may not be able to obtain additional contracts for natural gas supplies. The primary factors affecting its ability to connect new wells to its gathering facilities include its success in contracting for existing natural gas supplies that are not committed to other systems and the level of drilling activity near its gathering systems. Fluctuations in energy prices can greatly affect production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. For example, as oil and natural gas prices have recently decreased, there has been a corresponding decrease in drilling activity. Tax policy changes could also have a negative impact on drilling activity, reducing supplies of natural gas available to the Partnership’s systems. The Partnership has no control over producers and depends on them to maintain sufficient levels of drilling activity. A material decrease in natural gas production or in the level of drilling activity in the Partnership’s principal geographic areas for a prolonged period, as a result of depressed commodity prices or otherwise, likely would have a material adverse effect on results of operations and financial position. The Partnership is vulnerable to operational, regulatory and other risks associated with its assets including, with respect to its south Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico assets, the effects of adverse weather conditions such as hurricanes. The Partnership operations and revenues will be significantly impacted by conditions in south Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico because it has a significant portion of its assets located in south Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico. In the third and fourth quarters of 2008, the Partnership’s business was negatively impacted by hurricanes Gustav and Ike, which came ashore in the Gulf Coast in September. Although the majority of the Partnership’s assets in Texas and Louisiana sustained minimal physical damage from these hurricanes and promptly resumed operations, several offshore production platforms and pipelines owned by third parties that transport gas production to the Partnership’s Pelican, Eunice, Sabine Pass and Blue Water processing plants in south Louisiana were damaged by the storms. Some of the repairs to these offshore facilities were completed during the fourth quarter of 2008, but the Partnership does not anticipate that gas production to its south Louisiana plants will recover to pre-hurricane levels until mid-2009, when all repairs are expected to be complete. Additionally, one of the Partnership’s south Louisiana processing plants, the Sabine Pass processing plant, which is located on the shoreline of the Louisiana Gulf Coast, sustained some physical damage. The Sabine Pass processing plant was repaired during the fourth quarter of 2008 and the plant was returned to service in early January 2009. The Partnership’s operations in north Texas were also impacted by these hurricanes because operations at Mt. Belvieu, Texas, a central distribution point for NGL sales where several fractionators are located which fractionate NGLs from the entire United States, were interrupted as a result of these storms. These storms resulted in an adverse impact to the Partnership’s gross margin of approximately $22.9 million in the last half of 2008. The Partnership’s concentration of activity in Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico makes us more vulnerable than many of its competitors to the risks associated with these areas, including: • adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms; • delays or decreases in production, the availability of equipment, facilities or services; and • changes in the regulatory environment. Because a significant portion of the Partnership’s operations could experience the same condition at the same time, these conditions could have a relatively greater impact on its results of operations than they might have on other midstream companies who have operations in more diversified geographic areas. 29 Table of Contents In addition, the Partnership’s operations in south Louisiana are dependent upon continued conventional and deep shelf drilling in the Gulf of Mexico. The deep shelf in the Gulf of Mexico is an area that has had limited historical drilling activity. This is due, in part, to its geological complexity and depth. Deep shelf development is more expensive and inherently more risky than conventional shelf drilling. A decline in the level of deep shelf drilling in the Gulf of Mexico could have an adverse effect on the Partnership’s financial condition and results of operations. A substantial portion of the Partnership’s assets is connected to natural gas reserves that will decline over time, and the cash flows associated with those assets will decline accordingly. A substantial portion of the Partnership’s assets, including its gathering systems and its treating plants, is dedicated to certain natural gas reserves and wells for which the production will naturally decline over time. Accordingly, the Partnership’s cash flows associated with these assets will also decline. If the Partnership is unable to access new supplies of natural gas either by connecting additional reserves to existing assets or by constructing or acquiring new assets that have access to additional natural gas reserves, the Partnership cash flows may decline. Growing the Partnership’s business by constructing new pipelines and processing and treating facilities subjects the Partnership to construction risks, risks that natural gas supplies will not be available upon completion of the facilities and risks of construction delay and additional costs due to obtaining rights-of-way and complying with local ordinances. One of the ways the Partnership intends to grow business is through the construction of additions to existing gathering systems and construction of new pipelines and gathering, processing and treating facilities. The construction of pipelines and gathering, processing and treating facilities requires the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, which may exceed the Partnership’s expectations. Generally, the Partnership may have only limited natural gas supplies committed to these facilities prior to their construction. Moreover, the Partnership may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which anticipated production growth does not materialize. The Partnership may also rely on estimates of proved reserves in the decision to construct new pipelines and facilities, which may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough natural gas to achieve the expected investment return, which could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the Partnership faces the risks of construction delay and additional costs due to obtaining rights-of-way and local permits and complying with city ordinances, particularly as it expands operations into more urban, populated areas such as the Barnett Shale. Acquisitions typically increase the Partnership’s debt and subject it to other substantial risks, which could adversely affect its results of operations. From time to time, the Partnership may evaluate and seek to acquire assets or businesses that it believes complement existing business and related assets. The Partnership may acquire assets or businesses that it plans to use in a manner materially different from their prior owner’s use. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including: • the inability to integrate the operations of recently acquired businesses or assets; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • the loss of customers or key employees from the acquired businesses; • a significant increase in our indebtedness; and • potential environmental or regulatory liabilities and title problems. The Partnership’s management’s assessment of these risks is necessarily inexact and may not reveal or resolve all existing or potential problems associated with an acquisition. Realization of any of these risks could adversely affect the Partnerships operations and cash flows. If the Partnership consummates any future acquisition, its capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and you will not have the opportunity to evaluate 30 Table of Contents the economic, financial and other relevant information that it will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources. Additionally, the Partnership’s ability to grow its asset base in the near future through acquisitions will be limited due to its lack of access to capital markets and due to restrictions under its borrowing agreements. The Partnership expects to encounter significant competition in any new geographic areas into which it seeks to expand and its ability to enter such markets may be limited. If the Partnership expands operations into new geographic areas, it expects to encounter significant competition for natural gas supplies and markets. Competitors in these new markets will include companies larger than the Partnership, which have both lower capital costs and greater geographic coverage, as well as smaller companies, which have lower total cost structures. As a result, the Partnership may not be able to successfully develop acquired assets and markets located in new geographic areas and its results of operations could be adversely affected. The Partnership may not be able to retain existing customers or acquire new customers, which would reduce revenues and limit future profitability. The renewal or replacement of existing contracts with the Partnership’s customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows depends on a number of factors beyond its control, including competition from other pipelines, and the price of, and demand for, natural gas in the markets it serves. For the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 46.0% of Partnership sales of gas which were transported using its physical facilities were to industrial end-users and utilities. As a consequence of the increase in competition in the industry and volatility of natural gas prices, end-users and utilities are reluctant to enter into long-term purchase contracts. Many end-users purchase natural gas from more than one natural gas company and have the ability to change providers at any time. Some of these end-users also have the ability to switch between gas and alternate fuels in response to relative price fluctuations in the market. Because there are numerous companies of greatly varying size and financial capacity that compete with the Partnership in the marketing of natural gas it often competes in the end-user and utilities markets primarily on the basis of price. The inability of management to renew or replace current contracts as they expire and to respond appropriately to changing market conditions could have a negative effect on profitability. The Partnership depends on certain key customers, and the loss of any of those key customers could adversely affect financial results. The Partnership derives a significant portion of its revenues from contracts with key customers. To the extent that these and other customers may reduce volumes of natural gas purchased under existing contracts, the Partnership would be adversely affected unless it were able to make comparably profitable arrangements with other customers. Several of the Partnership’s customers, including one of its largest customers in the Barnett Shale, have recently announced drilling plans for 2009 that are substantially below their drilling levels during 2008. Agreements with key customers provide for minimum volumes of natural gas that each customer must purchase until the expiration of the term of the applicable agreement, subject to certain force majeure provisions. Customers may default on their obligations to purchase the minimum volumes required under the applicable agreements. The Partnership’s business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. The Partnership’s operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the gathering, compressing, treating and processing of natural gas and storage of residue gas, including: • damage to pipelines, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, floods, fires and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism; • inadvertent damage from construction and farm equipment; • leaks of natural gas, NGLs and other hydrocarbons; and 31 Table of Contents • fires and explosions. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage and may result in curtailment or suspension of Partnership related operations. The Partnership’s operations are concentrated in Texas, Louisiana and the Mississippi Gulf Coast, and a natural disaster or other hazard affecting this region could have a material adverse effect on its operations. The Partnership is not fully insured against all risks incident to its business. In accordance with typical industry practice, the Partnership does not have any property insurance on any of its underground pipeline systems that would cover damage to the pipelines. It is not insured against all environmental accidents that might occur, other than those considered to be sudden and accidental. The Partnership’s business interruption insurance covers only its Gregory processing plant. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, it could adversely affect operations and financial condition. The threat of terrorist attacks has resulted in increased costs, and future war or risk of war may adversely impact the Partnership’s results of operations and its ability to raise capital. Terrorist attacks or the threat of terrorist attacks cause instability in the global financial markets and other industries, including the energy industry. Uncertainty surrounding retaliatory military strikes or a sustained military campaign may affect Partnership operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities, including pipelines, production facilities, and transmission and distribution facilities, could be direct targets, or indirect casualties, of an act of terror. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism, the war in Iraq or future developments could also affect the Partnership’s ability to raise capital. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to the threat of terrorist attacks have made certain types of insurance more difficult for the Partnership to obtain. Its insurance policies now generally exclude acts of terrorism. Such insurance is not available at what management believes to be acceptable pricing levels. A lower level of economic activity could also result in a decline in energy consumption, which could adversely affect revenues or restrict future growth. Federal, state or local regulatory measures could adversely affect the Partnership’s business. While the FERC generally does not regulate the Partnership’s operations, it influences certain aspects of the Partnership’s business and the market for its products. The rates, terms and conditions of service under which the Partnership transports natural gas in its pipeline systems in interstate commerce are subject to FERC regulation under the Section 311 of the NGPA. Not only are the Partnerships intrastate natural gas pipeline operations subject to limited rate regulation by FERC, but they are also subject to regulation by various agencies of the states in which they are located. Should FERC or any of these state agencies determine that rates for Section 311 transportation service or intrastate transportation service should be lowered the Partnership’s business could be adversely affected. The Partnership’s natural gas gathering activities generally are exempt from FERC regulation under the NGA. However, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of substantial, on-going litigation, so the classification and regulation of its gathering facilities are subject to change based on future determinations by FERC and the courts. Natural gas gathering may receive greater regulatory scrutiny at both the state and federal levels since FERC has less extensively regulated the gathering activities of interstate pipeline transmission companies and a number of such companies have transferred gathering facilities to unregulated affiliates. The Partnership’s gathering operations also may be or become subject to safety and operational regulations relating to the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of gathering facilities. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to these matters are considered or adopted from time to time. The Partnership cannot predict what effect, if any, such changes might have on its operations, but the industry could be required to incur additional capital expenditures and increased costs depending on future legislative and regulatory changes. Other state and local regulations also affect the Partnership’s business. It is subject to some ratable take and common purchaser statutes in the states where it operates. Ratable take statutes generally require gatherers to take, without undue discrimination, natural gas production that may be tendered to the gatherer for handling. Similarly, 32 Table of Contents common purchaser statutes generally require gatherers to purchase without undue discrimination as to source of supply or producer. These statutes have the effect of restricting the Partnership’s right as an owner of gathering facilities to decide with whom it will contract to purchase or transport natural gas. Federal law leaves any economic regulation of natural gas gathering to the states, and some of the states in which the Partnership operates have adopted complaint-based or other limited economic regulation of natural gas gathering activities. States in which the Partnership operates that have adopted some form of complaint-based regulation, like Oklahoma and Texas, generally allow natural gas producers and shippers to file complaints with state regulators in an effort to resolve grievances relating to natural gas gathering access and rate discrimination. The states in which the Partnership conducts operations administer federal pipeline safety standards under the Pipeline Safety Act of 1968. The “rural gathering exemption” under the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968 presently exempts substantial portions of its gathering facilities from jurisdiction under that statute, including those portions located outside of cities, towns, or any area designated as residential or commercial, such as a subdivision or shopping center. The “rural gathering exemption,” however, may be restricted in the future, and it does not apply to the Partnership’s natural gas transmission pipelines. In response to recent pipeline accidents in other parts of the country, Congress and the Department of Transportation, or DOT, have passed or are considering heightened pipeline safety requirements. Compliance with pipeline integrity regulations issued by the United States Department of Transportation in December of 2003 or those issued by the TRRC could result in substantial expenditures for testing, repairs and replacement. TRRC regulations require periodic testing of all intrastate pipelines meeting certain size and location requirements. The Partnership’s costs relating to compliance with the required testing under the TRRC regulations were approximately at $3.2 million, $1.2 million, and $1.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. The Partnership expects the costs for compliance with TRRC and DOT regulations to be approximately $3.6 million during 2009. If the Partnership pipelines fail to meet the safety standards mandated by the TRRC or the DOT regulations, then it may be required to repair or replace sections of such pipelines, the cost of which cannot be estimated at this time. As the Partnership’s operations continue to expand into and around urban, or more populated areas, such as the Barnett Shale, it may incur additional expenses to mitigate noise, odor and light that may be emitted in our operations, and expenses related to the appearance of its facilities. Municipal and other local or state regulations are imposing various obligations, including, among other things, regulating the location of the Partnership’s facilities, imposing limitations on the noise levels of its facilities and requiring certain other improvements that increase the cost of its facilities. The Partnership is also subject to claims by neighboring landowners for nuisance related to the construction and operation of its facilities, which could subject it to damages for declines in neighboring property values due to its construction and operation of facilities. The Partnership’s business involves hazardous substances and may be adversely affected by environmental regulation. Many of the operations and activities of the Partnership’s gathering systems, plants and other facilities, including the south Louisiana processing assets, are subject to significant federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. The obligations imposed by these laws and regulations include obligations related to air emissions and discharge of pollutants from facilities and the cleanup of hazardous substances and other wastes that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by the Partnership or locations to which it has sent wastes for treatment or disposal. Various governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with these regulations and the permits issued under them, and violators are subject to administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, injunctions or both. Strict, joint and several liability may be incurred under these laws and regulations for the remediation of contaminated areas. Private parties, including the owners of properties through which the Partnership’s gathering systems pass, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or releases of contaminants or for personal injury or property damage. There is inherent risk of the incurrence of significant environmental costs and liabilities in the Partnership’s business due to its handling of natural gas and other petroleum products, air emissions related to its operations, 33 Table of Contents historical industry operations, waste disposal practices and the prior use of natural gas flow meters containing mercury. In addition, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. The Partnership may incur material environmental costs and liabilities. Furthermore, its insurance may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against it. The Partnership’s business may be adversely affected by increased costs due to stricter pollution control requirements or liabilities resulting from non-compliance with required operating or other regulatory permits. New environmental regulations might adversely affect products and activities, including processing, storage and transportation, as well as waste management and air emissions. Federal and state agencies could also impose additional safety requirements, any of which could affect profitability. The Partnership’s success depends on key members of its management, the loss or replacement of whom could disrupt business operations. The Partnership depends on the continued employment and performance of the officers of the general partner of our general partner and key operational personnel. The general partner of our general partner has entered into employment agreements with each of its executive officers. If any of these officers or other key personnel resign or become unable to continue in their present roles and are not adequately replaced, the Partnership’s business operations could be materially adversely affected. The Partnership does not maintain any “key man” life insurance for any officers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We do not have any unresolved staff comments. 