Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our operations will be affected by global economic fluctuations, including the global economic conditions prevailing during 2009. Demand for our services fluctuates with changes in economic conditions in the markets in which we operate. Those conditions include slower employment growth or reductions in employment, as is being experienced at the present time. We have limited flexibility to reduce expenses during economic downturns due to some overhead costs which are fixed in the short-term. Furthermore, we may face increased pricing pressures during economic downturns. During the 2009 economic downturn, many employers in our operating regions reduced their overall workforce to reflect the reduced demand for their products and services. The global weakness impacted virtually all of our markets and, as a result, our 2009 financial results were below the financial results of 2008. Despite indications of improving economic conditions in the later part of 2009, the economic recovery is in its early stages and the potential for further decline in economic activity remains possible. lf this were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our revenue can vary because our clients can terminate their relationship with us at any time with limited or no penalty. We provide professional mid-market staffing services on a temporary assignment-by-assignment basis, which clients can generally terminate at any time or reduce their level of use when compared to prior periods. Our professional recruitment business is also significantly affected by our clients, hiring needs and their views of their future prospects. Clients may, on very short notice, reduce or postpone their recruiting assignments with us and, therefore, affect demand for our services. Given the current economic conditions, many companies may decrease their spending on projects and staffing, including our clients who may terminate or reduce their level of services with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face risks in collecting our accounts receivable. In virtually all of our businesses, we invoice customers after providing services, which creates accounts receivable. Delays or defaults in payments owed to us could have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Factors that could cause a delay or default include, but are not limited to, business failures, turmoil in the financial and credit markets, and global economic conditions. Given current economic conditions, we are particularly susceptible to delays or defaults in payment by our customers. 3 TABLE OF CONTENTS We have had periods of negative cash flows and operating losses that may reoccur in the future. We have experienced negative cash flows and shown operating and net losses in the past. For example, our cash flows from operations were negative during 2009 and we had operating and net losses for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. We cannot provide any assurance that we will have positive cash flows or operating profitability in the future, particularly to the extent the global economy is slow to recover from the global economic downturn. If our revenue declines or if operating expenses exceed our expectations, we may not be profitable and may not generate positive operating cash flows. We have limited borrowing availability under our credit facilities, which may negatively impact our liquidity. Extensions of credit under our primary credit facility, as amended (the “Credit Agreement”), with Wells Fargo Foothill Inc. and our lending arrangements in Europe are permitted based on a borrowing base, which is an agreed percentage of eligible accounts receivable, less required reserves, letters of credit and outstanding borrowings. If the amount or quality of our accounts receivable deteriorates, then our ability to borrow under these credit facilities will be directly affected. Our lenders can impose other conditions, such as payroll and other reserves at any time without prior notice to us and these actions would reduce the amounts available to us under the credit facilities. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to borrow under these credit facilities if we need money to fund working capital or other needs. If sources of liquidity are not available or if we cannot generate sufficient cash flows from operations, then we may be required to obtain additional sources of funds through additional operating improvements, capital markets transactions, asset sales or financing from third parties, or a combination thereof and, under certain conditions, such transactions could substantially dilute the ownership of existing stockholders. We cannot provide assurance that the additional sources of funds will be available, or if available, would have reasonable terms, particularly in light of current credit market conditions. Our credit facility restricts our operating flexibility. Our Credit Agreement contains various restrictions and covenants that restrict our operating flexibility including: • prohibitions on payments of dividends; • restrictions on our ability to make additional borrowings, or to consolidate, merge or otherwise fundamentally change our ownership; and • limitations on capital expenditures, investments, dispositions of assets, guarantees of indebtedness, permitted acquisitions and repurchases of stock. These restrictions and covenants could have important consequences for investors, including the need to use a portion of our cash flow from operations for debt service rather than for our operations, restrictions on our ability to incur additional debt financing for future working capital or capital expenditures, a lesser ability to take advantage of significant business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities, or to react to market conditions by selling lesser-performing assets. In addition, a default or amendment or waiver to our Credit Agreement to avoid a default may result in higher rates of interest and impact our ability to obtain additional borrowings. For example, the amendment to our Credit Agreement that we entered into on December 30, 2008 to eliminate a minimum quarterly EBITDA covenant resulted in higher interest rates and a reduction in the amount that we may borrow under the Credit Agreement. Finally, debt incurred under our Credit Agreement bears interest at variable rates. Any increase in interest expense could reduce the funds available for operations. Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter and therefore quarterly results cannot be used to predict future periods’ results. Our operating results fluctuate quarter to quarter primarily due to the vacation periods during the first quarter in the Asia Pacific region and the third quarter in the Americas and Europe regions. Demand for our services is typically lower during traditional national vacation periods when clients are on vacation. 4 TABLE OF CONTENTS We face risks relating to our international operations. We conduct operations in more than twenty countries and face both translation and transaction risks related to foreign currency exchange. For the year ended December 31, 2009, approximately 85% of our gross margin was earned outside of the United States. Our financial results could be materially affected by a number of factors particular to international operations. These include, but are not limited to, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, operational issues such as longer customer payment cycles and greater difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, changes in tax laws or other regulatory requirements, issues relating to uncertainties of laws and enforcement relating to the regulation and protection of intellectual property, and currency fluctuation. If we are forced to discontinue any of our international operations, we could incur material costs to close down such operations. Regarding the foreign currency risk inherent in international operations, the results of our local operations are reported in the applicable foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable foreign currency exchange rates for inclusion in our financial statements. In addition, we generally pay operating expenses in the corresponding local currency. Because of devaluations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates or the imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars, we are subject to currency translation exposure on the revenue and income of our operations in addition to economic exposure. Our consolidated U.S. dollar cash balance could be lower because a significant amount of cash is generated outside of the United States. This risk could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our investment strategy subjects us to risks. From time to time, we make investments, including acquisitions, as part of our growth plans. We may not be able to find suitable investments, or the investments we make may not perform as expected because they are dependent on a variety of factors, including our ability to effectively integrate acquired personnel and operations, our ability to sell new products and services, and our ability to retain the clients of acquired firms or gain new clients. Furthermore, we may need to borrow more money from lenders or sell equity or debt securities to the public to finance future investments and the terms of these financings may be adverse to us. We face risks associated with our dispositions of underperforming or non-core assets. We have disposed of several non-core businesses since the third quarter of 2006. We have retained liabilities of some of these businesses and may be responsible for certain potential indemnification claims by the purchasers. We may not be able to settle the liabilities at the recorded value in our financial statements and indemnification claims may adversely affect our financial results. Further, we may have risks associated with our ability to effectively restructure our operations following these dispositions. If we are unable to effectively implement our cost reduction initiatives, including outsourcing, our ability to compete could be adversely impacted and our regional operations could be disrupted. We have undertaken a series of cost reduction initiatives. In 2009, we initiated a number of structural cost reduction and productivity improvement initiatives in our operations to reduce costs and improve profitability. Our future profitability depends upon our continued success in achieving anticipated cost reductions. The impact of these cost reduction actions on our revenue, operating results and cash flows may be influenced by factors including our ability to successfully complete these ongoing efforts and our ability to generate the level of cost savings we expect or that are necessary to enable us to effectively compete in the staffing industry. On January 30, 2009, we entered into an agreement with a company located in India to outsource certain back-office processes performed in our Australia and New Zealand regional business. The processes that were outsourced are invoicing, accounts payable, accounts receivable and transactional accounting. The efficient operation of that regional business is dependent on the stability of the Indian political environment. Substantially all of the specially-trained employees at the Indian company are Indian nationals. Because substantially all of the named operations have been transferred, it may not be possible to replace the Indian-based employees in another location, should operations at this Indian company be disrupted. This could impact the operational efficiency of that regional business. 5 TABLE OF CONTENTS We rely on our information systems, and if we lose that technology or fail to further develop our technology, our business could be harmed. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to store, retrieve, process, and manage substantial amounts of information, including our client and candidate databases. To achieve our strategic objectives and to remain competitive, we must continue to develop and enhance our information systems. This may require the acquisition of equipment and software and the development, either internally or through independent consultants, of new proprietary software. Our inability to design, develop, implement and utilize, in a cost-effective manner, information systems that provide the capabilities necessary for us to compete effectively, or any interruption or loss of our information processing capabilities, for any reason, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our markets are highly competitive. The markets for our services are highly competitive. Our markets are characterized by pressures to reduce prices, provide high levels of service, incorporate new capabilities and technologies and accelerate job completion schedules. Furthermore, we face competition from a number of sources. These sources include other executive search firms and professional search, staffing and consulting firms. Several of our competitors have greater financial and marketing resources than we do. Due to competition, we may experience reduced margins on our products and services, and loss of market share and our customers. If we are not able to compete effectively with current or future competitors as a result of these and other factors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We have no significant proprietary technology that would preclude or inhibit competitors from entering the mid-market professional staffing contract and consulting markets. We cannot provide assurance that existing or future competitors will not develop or offer services and products that provide significant performance, price, creative or other advantages over our services. In addition, we believe that, with continuing development and increased availability of information technology, the industries in which we compete may attract new competitors. Specifically, the increased use of the Internet may attract technology-oriented companies to the professional staffing industry. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to continue to compete effectively against existing or future competitors. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be exposed to employment-related claims, legal liability and costs from both clients and employers that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, and our insurance coverage may not cover all of our potential liability. We are in the business of employing people and placing them in the workplaces of other businesses. Risks relating to these activities include: • claims of misconduct or negligence on the part of our employees; • claims by our employees of discrimination or harassment directed at them, including claims relating to actions of our clients; • claims related to the employment of illegal aliens or unlicensed personnel; • claims for payment of workers’ compensation claims and other similar claims; • claims for violations of wage and hour requirements; • claims for retroactive entitlement to employee benefits; • claims of errors and omissions of our temporary employees, particularly in the case of professionals; • claims by taxing authorities related to our independent contractors and the risk that such contractors could be considered employees for tax purposes; • claims related to our non-compliance with data protection laws, which require the consent of a candidate to transfer resumes and other data; and 6 TABLE OF CONTENTS • claims by our clients relating to our employees’ misuse of client proprietary information, misappropriation of funds, other misconduct, criminal activity or similar claims. We are exposed to potential claims with respect to the recruitment process. A client could assert a claim for matters such as breach of a blocking arrangement or recommending a candidate who subsequently proves to be unsuitable for the position filled. Similarly, a client could assert a claim for deceptive trade practices on the grounds that we failed to disclose certain referral information about the candidate or misrepresented material information about the candidate. Further, the current employer of a candidate whom we place could file a claim against us alleging interference with an employment contract. In addition, a candidate could assert an action against us for failure to maintain the confidentiality of the candidate’s employment search or for alleged discrimination or other violations of employment law by one of our clients. We may incur fines and other losses or negative publicity with respect to these problems. In addition, some or all of these claims may give rise to litigation, which could be time-consuming to our management team, costly and could have a negative effect on our business. In some cases, we have agreed to indemnify our clients against some or all of these types of liabilities. We cannot assure you that we will not experience these problems in the future, that our insurance will cover all claims, or that our insurance coverage will continue to be available at economically-feasible rates. From time to time, we may still incur liabilities associated with pre-spin off activities with Monster. Under the terms of our Distribution Agreement with Monster, these liabilities will be retained by us. If these liabilities are significant, the retained liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on our key management personnel. Our continued success will depend to a significant extent on our senior management, including Jon F. Chait, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of Mr. Chait or one or more key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if one or more key employees join a competitor or form a competing company, the resulting loss of existing or potential clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, it may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success also depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled professionals who possess the skills and experience necessary to meet the staffing requirements of our clients. We must continually evaluate and upgrade our base of available qualified personnel to keep pace with changing client needs and emerging technologies. Furthermore, a substantial number of our contractors during any given year may terminate their employment with us and accept regular staff employment with our clients. Competition for qualified professionals with proven skills remains intense, and demand for these individuals is expected to remain strong for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that qualified personnel will continue to be available to us in sufficient numbers. If we are unable to attract the necessary qualified personnel for our clients, it may have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There may be volatility in our stock price. The market price for our common stock has fluctuated in the past and could fluctuate substantially in the future. For example, during 2009, the market prices of our common stock reported on the NASDAQ Global Market ranged from a high of $5.19 to a low of $0.68. Factors such as general macroeconomic conditions adverse to workforce expansion, the announcement of variations in our quarterly financial results or changes in our expected financial results could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. Further, due to the volatility of the stock market generally, the price of our common stock could fluctuate for reasons unrelated to our operating performance. 7 TABLE OF CONTENTS Government regulations may result in the prohibition, regulation or restriction of certain types of employment services we offer, the imposition of additional licensing or tax requirements, or increase in the number of compliance audits that may reduce our future earnings. In many jurisdictions in which we operate, the contract staffing industry is heavily regulated. For example, governmental regulations can restrict the length of contracts of contract employees and the industries in which they may be used. In some countries, special taxes, fees or costs are imposed in connection with the use of contract workers. The countries in which we operate may: • create additional regulations that prohibit or restrict the types of employment services that we currently provide; • impose new or additional benefit requirements; • require us to obtain additional licensing to provide staffing services; • impose new or additional visa restrictions on movements between countries; • increase taxes, such as sales or value-added taxes, payable by the providers of staffing services; or • increase the number of various tax and compliance audits relating to a variety of regulations, including wage and hour laws, unemployment taxes, workers’ compensation, immigration, and income, value-added and sales taxes. Any future regulations that make it more difficult or expensive for us to continue to provide our staffing services may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law will make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain several provisions that make more difficult an acquisition of control of us in a transaction not approved by our Board of Directors, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current prices, and that may limit the ability of stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws include provisions: • dividing our Board of Directors into three classes to be elected on a staggered basis, one class each year; • authorizing our Board of Directors to issue shares of our preferred stock in one or more series without further authorization of our stockholders; • requiring that stockholders provide advance notice of any stockholder nomination of directors or any proposal of new business to be considered at any meeting of stockholders; • permitting removal of directors only for cause by a super-majority vote; • providing that vacancies on our Board of Directors will be filled by the remaining directors then in office; • requiring that a super-majority vote be obtained to amend or repeal specified provisions of our certificate of incorporation or by-laws; and • eliminating the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders or take action by written consent without a meeting of stockholders. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally provides that a corporation may not engage in any business combination with any interested stockholder during the three-year period following the time that the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless a majority of the directors then in office approve either the business combination or the transaction that results in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder or specified stockholder approval requirements are met. 8 TABLE OF CONTENTS In February 2005, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of one preferred share purchase right (a “Right”) for each outstanding share of our common stock payable upon the close of business on February 28, 2005 to the stockholders of record on that date. Each Right entitles the registered holder to purchase from us one one-hundredth ( 1/100th) of a share of our Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock (“Preferred Shares”) at a price of $60 per one one-hundredth of a Preferred Share, subject to adjustment. These Rights may make the cost of acquiring us more expensive and, therefore, make an acquisition more difficult. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 