ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related To Our Company, Our Business, and Our Industry Difficult market conditions have adversely affected the industry in which we operate. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for over four years. Declines in the housing market over this period, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. As a result of the broad based economic decline and the troubled economic conditions, financial institutions have pursued strategies that include seeking additional capital or merging with larger and stronger institutions. In some cases, financial institutions that did not pursue defensive strategies or did not succeed in those strategies, have failed. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. Additionally, the market disruptions have increased the level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve materially in the near future and are managing the Company with numerous defensive strategies. A worsening of the current conditions would exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institution industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: 17 ·unreliable market conditions with significantly reduced real estate activity may adversely affect our ability to determine the fair value of the assets we hold. If we determine that a significant portion of our assets have values that are significantly below their recorded carrying value, we could recognize a material charge to earnings in the quarter during which such determination was made, our capital ratios would be affected and may result in increased regulatory scrutiny. ·we may expect to face increased regulation of our industry, including as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. ·market developments and the resulting economic pressure on consumers may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause increases in delinquencies and default rates, which, among other effects, could affect our charge-offs and provision for loan losses. ·competition in the industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. Legislation and regulatory proposals in response to turmoil in the financial markets may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. The banking industry is heavily regulated. We are subject to examinations, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect the federal deposit insurance fund and depositors, not shareholders. The burden imposed by federal and state regulations puts banks at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors such as finance companies, mortgage banking companies and leasing companies. Changes in the laws, regulations and regulatory practices affecting the banking industry may increase our costs of doing business or otherwise adversely affect us and create competitive advantages for others. Federal economic and monetary policies may also affect our ability to attract deposits and other funding sources, make loans and investments and achieve satisfactory interest spreads. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a significant overhaul of many aspects of the regulation of the financial services industry, including new or revised regulation of such things as systemic risk, capital adequacy, deposit insurance assessments and consumer financial protection. In addition, the federal banking regulators have issued joint guidance on incentive compensation and the Treasury and the federal banking regulators have issued statements calling for higher capital and liquidity requirements for banking organizations. Complying with these and other new legislative or regulatory requirements, and any programs established thereunder, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, our financial condition and our ability to fill positions with the most qualified candidates available. Our revenues are highly correlated to market interest rates. Our assets and liabilities are primarily monetary in nature, and as a result, we are subject to significant risks tied to changes in interest rates. Our ability to operate profitably is largely dependent upon net interest income. In 2012, net interest income made up 84% of our recurring revenue. Unexpected movement in interest rates, that may or may not change the slope of the current yield curve, could cause our net interest margins to decrease, subsequently decreasing net interest income. In addition, such changes could materially adversely affect the valuation of our assets and liabilities. As with most financial institutions, our results of operations are affected by changes in interest rates and our ability to manage this risk. The difference between interest rates charged on interest-earning assets and interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities may be affected by changes in market interest rates, changes in relationships between interest rate indices, and changes in the relationships between long-term and short-term market interest rates. In addition, the mix of assets and liabilities could change as varying levels of market interest rates might present our customer base with more attractive options. 18 Certain changes in interest rates, inflation, deflation or the financial markets could affect demand for our products and our ability to deliver products efficiently. Loan originations, and potentially loan revenues, could be materially adversely impacted by sharply rising interest rates. Conversely, sharply falling rates could increase prepayments within our securities portfolio lowering interest earnings from those investments. An unanticipated increase in inflation could cause our operating costs related to salaries and benefits, technology and supplies to increase at a faster pace than revenues. The fair market value of our securities portfolio and the investment income from these securities also fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. In addition, actual net investment income and/or cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. Our concentration of real estate loans subjects the Company to risks that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The deterioration in residential and commercial construction and development and acquisition portfolios may lead to increased nonperforming assets in our loan portfolio and increased provision for loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. While recent economic data suggests that overall economic conditions are improving, such improvement may be slower in our market areas and if market conditions in the residential construction and development and land acquisition real estate markets remain poor or further deteriorate, they may lead to additional valuation adjustments on our loans and real estate owned in these markets. Furthermore, a sustained weakened economy could result in a continuation of the decreased demand for residential housing, which, in turn, could adversely affect the development and construction efforts of residential real estate developers, adversely affect the ability of those developers to repay their loans and the decrease the value of the property used as collateral, resulting in higher levels of non-performing loans. Any further increase in our non-performing assets and related increases in our provision for loan losses could negatively affect our business and have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. Because we engage in lending secured by real estate and may be forced to foreclose on the collateral property and own the underlying real estate, we may be subject to the increased costs associated with the ownership of real property, which could result in reduced net income. Since we originate loans secured by real estate, we may have to foreclose on the collateral property to protect our investment and may thereafter own and operate such property, in which case we are exposed to the risks inherent in the ownership of real estate. The amount that we, as a mortgagee, may realize after a default is dependent upon factors outside of our control, including, but not limited to: ·general or local economic conditions; ·environmental cleanup liability; ·neighborhood values; ·real estate tax rates; ·operating expenses of the foreclosed properties; ·ability to obtain and maintain adequate occupancy of the properties; ·zoning laws, governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies; and ·natural disasters. Certain expenditures associated with the ownership of real estate, principally real estate taxes and maintenance costs, may adversely affect the income from the real estate. Therefore, the cost of operating real property may exceed the rental income earned from such property, and we may have to advance funds in order to protect our investment or we may be required to dispose of the real property at a loss. 19 Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover losses, and we may be required to materially increase our allowance, which may adversely affect our capital, financial condition and results of operations. We, as lenders, are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans in accordance with their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our credit risk with respect to our real estate and construction loan portfolio will relate principally to the creditworthiness of business entities and the value of the real estate serving as security for the repayment of loans. Our credit risk with respect to our commercial and consumer loan portfolio will relate principally to the general creditworthiness of businesses and individuals within our local markets. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for estimated loan losses based on a number of factors. If our assumptions or judgments prove to be incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses. We may have to increase our allowance in the future in response to the request of one of our primary banking regulators, to adjust for changing conditions and assumptions, or as a result of any deterioration in the quality of our loan portfolio. The actual amount of future provisions for loan losses cannot be determined at this time and may vary from the amounts of past provisions. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, and other sources, could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could negatively impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of an economic downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated, adverse regulatory action against us, or our inability to attract and retain deposits. Our ability to borrow could be impaired by factors that are not specific to us or our region, such a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the unstable credit markets. Our business is highly correlated to local economic conditions in a geographically concentrated part of the United States. Unlike larger organizations that are more geographically diversified, our banking offices are primarily concentrated in select markets in North and South Carolina. As a result of this geographic concentration, our financial results depend largely upon economic conditions in these market areas. Deterioration in economic conditions in the markets we serve could result in one or more of the following: ·an increase in loan delinquencies; ·an increase in problem assets and foreclosures; ·a decrease in the demand for our products and services; and ·a decrease in the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, the value of assets associated with problem loans and collateral coverage. We rely on dividends from BNC for most of our revenue. We are a separate and distinct legal entity from BNC. We receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from BNC. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on the common and preferred stock and interest and principal on our debt. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that BNC may pay to us. Also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. In the event BNC is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on our common and preferred stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. 20 We are subject to regulation by various federal and state entities. We are subject to the regulations of the SEC, the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the NCOCB. New regulations issued by these agencies may adversely affect our ability to carry on our business activities. We are subject to various federal and state laws and certain changes in these laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations. Noncompliance with certain of these regulations may impact our business plans, including our ability to branch, offer certain products or execute existing or planned business strategies. We are also subject to the accounting rules and regulations of the SEC and the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Changes in accounting rules could materially adversely affect the reported financial statements or our results of operations and may also require extraordinary efforts or additional costs to implement. Any of these laws or regulations may be modified or changed from time to time, and we cannot be assured that such modifications or changes will not adversely affect us. We are subject to industry competition which may have an impact upon our success. Our profitability depends on our ability to compete successfully. We operate in a highly competitive financial services environment. Certain competitors are larger and may have more resources than we do. We face competition in our regional market areas from other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, internet banks, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms, and other financial intermediaries that offer similar services. Some of our nonbank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern us or our bank subsidiary and may have greater flexibility in competing for business. Another competitive factor is that the financial services market, including banking services, is undergoing rapid changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. Our future success may depend, in part, on our ability to use technology competitively to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and create additional efficiencies in our operations. Changes in the policies of monetary authorities and other government action could materially adversely affect our profitability. The results of our operations are affected by credit policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve. The instruments of monetary policy employed by the Federal Reserve include open market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in the discount rate or the federal funds rate on bank borrowings and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. In view of changing conditions in the national economy and in the money markets, particularly in light of the continuing threat of terrorist attacks and the current military operations and other instances of unrest in the Middle East, we cannot predict with certainty possible future changes in interest rates, deposit levels, loan demand or our business and earnings. Furthermore, the actions of the U.S. government and other governments in responding to such terrorist attacks or events in the Middle East may result in currency fluctuations, exchange controls, market disruption and other adverse effects. We may need to rely on the financial markets to provide needed capital. Our Common Stock is listed and traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market. Although we anticipate that our capital resources will be adequate for the foreseeable future to meet our capital requirements, at times we may depend on the liquidity of the NASDAQ market to raise equity capital. If the market should fail to operate, or if conditions in the capital markets are adverse, we may be constrained in raising capital. Downgrades in the opinions of the analysts that follow us may cause our stock price to fall and significantly limit our ability to access the markets for additional capital requirements. Should these risks materialize, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth or acquisition may be limited. We may invest or spend the proceeds in stock offerings in ways with which you may not agree and in ways that may not earn a profit. We may choose to use the proceeds of future stock offerings for general corporate purposes, including for possible acquisition opportunities that may become available, such as future FDIC-assisted transactions. It is not known whether suitable acquisition opportunities may become available or whether we will be able to successfully complete any such acquisitions. We may use the proceeds of an offering only to focus on sustaining our organic, or internal, growth or for other purposes. In addition, we may use all or a portion of the proceeds of an offering to support our capital. You may not agree with the ways we decide to use the proceeds of any stock offerings, and our use of the proceeds may not yield any profits. 21 We face risks related to our operational, technological and organizational infrastructure. Our ability to grow and compete is dependent on our ability to build or acquire the necessary operational and technological infrastructure and to manage the cost of that infrastructure while we expand. Similar to other large corporations, in our case, operational risk can manifest itself in many ways, such as errors related to failed or inadequate processes, faulty or disabled computer systems, fraud by employees or outside persons and exposure to external events. We are dependent on our operational infrastructure to help manage these risks. In addition, we are heavily dependent on the strength and capability of our technology systems which we use both to interface with our customers and to manage our internal financial and other systems. Our ability to develop and deliver new products that meet the needs of our existing customers and attract new customers depends in part on the functionality of our technology systems. Additionally, our ability to run our business in compliance with applicable laws and regulations is dependent on these infrastructures. We continuously monitor our operational and technological capabilities and make modifications and improvements when we believe it will be cost effective to do so. In some instances, we may build and maintain these capabilities ourselves. We also outsource some of these functions to third parties. These third parties may experience errors or disruptions that could adversely impact us and over which we may have limited control. We also face risk from the integration of new infrastructure platforms and/or new third party providers of such platforms into our existing businesses. Financial services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. Reputational risk and social factors may impact our results. Our ability to originate and maintain accounts is highly dependent upon customer and other external perceptions of our business practices and our financial health. Adverse perceptions regarding our business practices or our financial health could damage our reputation in both the customer and funding markets, leading to difficulties in generating and maintaining accounts as well as in financing them. Adverse developments with respect to the consumer or other external perceptions regarding the practices of our competitors, or our industry as a whole, may also adversely impact our reputation. In addition, adverse reputational impacts on third parties with whom we have important relationships may also adversely impact our reputation. Adverse impacts on our reputation, or the reputation of our industry, may also result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny, which may lead to laws, regulations or regulatory actions that may change or constrain the manner in which we engage with our customers and the products we offer. Adverse reputational impacts or events may also increase our litigation risk. We carefully monitor internal and external developments for areas of potential reputational risk and have established governance structures to assist in evaluating such risks in our business practices and decisions. We may experience interruptions or breaches in our information system security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. In addition to our own systems we also rely on external vendors to provide certain services and are therefore exposed to their information security risks. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of these information systems, there can be no assurance that any failure or interruption of our systems, or our external vendors systems, will not occur, or, if they do occur that they will be adequately addressed. The volume of business conducted through electronic devices continues to grow and our computer systems and network infrastructure, as well as the systems of external vendors and customers, present security risks and could be susceptible to hacking and identify theft. A breach in security of our systems, including a breach resulting from our newer online capabilities such as mobile banking, increases the potential for fraud losses. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could result in damage to our reputation, result in loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 22 A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of external vendors and other service providers, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could disrupt our business, result in disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses. As a financial institution, we are susceptible to fraudulent activity that may be committed against us or our customers, which may result in financial losses to us or our customers, privacy breaches against our customers or damage to our reputation. Such fraudulent activity may take various forms, including check fraud, electronic fraud, wire fraud, phishing, and other dishonest activities. In recent years, there has been a rise in electronic fraudulent activity within the financial services industry, especially in the commercial banking sector, due to cyber-criminals targeting commercial bank accounts. In addition, our operations rely on secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information on our computer systems and networks. Although we take numerous protective measures to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our and our customers’ information across all geographic and product lines, and endeavor to modify these protective measures as circumstances warrant, the nature of the threats continues to evolve and become increasingly sophisticated. As a result, our computer systems, software and networks and those of our customers may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data (including confidential customer information), account takeovers, unavailability of service, computer viruses or other malicious code, cyber-attacks and other events that could have an adverse security impact and result in significant losses by us and/or our customers. These threats may originate externally from third parties, such as cyber-criminal and other hackers, third party vendors providing processing or infrastructure-support services, or internally from within our organization. Despite the defensive measures we take to manage our internal technological and operational infrastructure, given the increasingly high volume of our transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and rectified. We also face the risk of operational disruption, failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the third parties that facilitate our business activities, including exchanges, clearing agents, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries. These parties could also be the source of an attack on, on breach of, our operational systems, data or infrastructure. In addition, we may be at risk of an operation failure with respect to our customers systems. Our risk and exposure to these matters remain heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of the threats, the outsourcing of some of our business operations and the continued uncertain global economic environment. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information system vulnerabilities. Our hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating our exposure to interest rate risk. We use derivative financial instruments, primarily consisting of interest rate swaps, caps floors, financial forward and futures contracts to limit our exposure to interest rate risk. In 2009, we entered into a five-year interest rate cap to assist us in minimizing the exposure of rising interest rates. No hedging strategy can completely protect us; the derivative financial instruments we elect may not have the effect of reducing our interest rate risks. Poorly designed strategies, improperly executed and documented transactions or inaccurate assumptions could actually increase our risks and losses. In addition, hedging strategies involve transaction and other costs. We cannot be assured that our hedging strategies and the derivatives that we use will adequately offset the risks of interest rate volatility or that our hedging transactions will not result in or magnify losses. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities we engage in can be intense and we may not be able to hire people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. 23 The FDIC has imposed a special assessment on all FDIC-insured institutions, and future special assessments could materially adversely affect our earnings in future periods. In May 2009, the FDIC announced that it had voted to levy a special assessment on insured institutions in order to facilitate the rebuilding of the Deposit Insurance Fund. During 2009, we were required to pay a special assessment totaling $743,000 and also to prepay the assessments that would normally have been paid during 2010 through 2012. The FDIC has indicated that future special assessments are possible, although it has not determined the magnitude or timing of any future assessments. Any such future assessments will decrease our earnings. Risks Related to Our Growth Strategy We may not be able to implement aspects of our growth strategy. Our growth strategy contemplates the future expansion of our business and operations both organically and by acquisitions, such as through the establishment or acquisition of banks and banking offices in our market area and other markets in North and South Carolina. Implementing these aspects of our growth strategy depends, in part, on our ability to successfully identify acquisition opportunities and strategic partners that will complement our operating philosophy and to successfully integrate their operations with ours, as well as generate loans and deposits within acceptable risk and expense tolerances. To successfully acquire or establish banks or banking offices, we must be able to correctly identify profitable or growing markets, as well as attract the necessary relationships and high caliber banking personnel to make these new banking offices profitable. In addition, we may not be able to identify suitable opportunities for further growth and expansion or, if we do, we may not be able to successfully integrate these new operations into our business. As consolidation of the financial services industry continues, the competition for suitable acquisition candidates may increase. We will compete with other financial services companies for acquisition opportunities, and many of these competitors have greater financial resources than we do and may be able to pay more for an acquisition than we are able or willing to pay. We can offer no assurance that we will have opportunities to acquire other financial institutions or acquire or establish any new branches or loan production offices, or that we will be able to negotiate, finance and complete any opportunities available to us. If we are unable to effectively implement our growth strategies, our business, results of operations and stock price may be materially and adversely affected. Future expansion involves risks. Our acquisition of other financial institutions or parts of those institutions involves a number of risks, including the risk that: ·we may incur substantial costs in identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners, or in evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local managers, and opening new offices; ·our estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks relating to target institutions may not be accurate; ·the institutions we acquire may have distressed assets and there can be no assurance that we will be able to realize the value we predict from those assets or that we will make sufficient provisions or have sufficient capital for future losses; ·we may be required to take write-downs or write-offs, restructurings and impairment, or other charges related to the institutions we acquire that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations; ·there may be substantial lag-time between completing an acquisition and generating sufficient assets and deposits to support costs of the expansion; 24 ·our management’s attention in negotiating a transaction and integrating the operations and personnel of the combining businesses may be diverted from our existing business and we may not be able to successfully integrate such operations and personnel; ·our announcement of additional transactions prior to the completion of the merger could result in a delay in obtaining regulatory or shareholder approval for the merger, which could have the effect of limiting our ability to fully realize the expected financial benefits from the transaction; ·we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for an acquisition; ·we may enter new markets where we lack local experience or that introduce new risks to our operations, or that otherwise result in adverse effects on our results of operations; ·we may introduce new products and services we are not equipped to manage or that introduce new risks to its operation, or that otherwise result in adverse effects on our results of operations; ·we may incur intangible assets in connection with an acquisition, or the intangible assets we incur may become impaired, which could result in adverse short-term effects on our results of operations; ·we may assume liabilities in connection with an acquisition, including unrecorded liabilities that are not discovered at the time of the transaction, and the repayment of those liabilities may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and stock price; or ·we may lose key employees and customers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate any banking offices that we acquire into our operations or retain customers of those offices. If any of these risks occur in connection with our expansion efforts, it may have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to maintain and manage our organic growth, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have grown rapidly since our acquisition of Beach First National Bank, or Beach First, in April 2010, and our business strategy contemplates significant acceleration in such growth, both organically and through acquisitions. We can provide no assurance that we will continue to be successful in increasing the volume of loans and deposits or in introducing new products and services at acceptable risk levels and upon acceptable terms while managing the costs and implementation risks associated with our historical or modified organic growth strategy. We may be unable to continue to increase our volume of loans and deposits or to introduce new products and services at acceptable risk levels for a variety of reasons, including an inability to maintain capital and liquidity sufficient to support continued growth. If we are successful in continuing our growth, we cannot assure you that further growth would offer the same levels of potential profitability or that we would be successful in controlling costs and maintaining asset quality. Accordingly, an inability to maintain growth, or an inability to effectively manage growth, could adversely affect out results of operations, financial condition and stock price. New bank office facilities and other facilities may not be profitable. We may not be able to organically expand into new markets that are profitable for our franchise. The costs to start up new bank branches and loan production offices in new markets, other than through acquisitions, and the additional costs to operate these facilities would increase our noninterest expense and may decrease our earnings. It may be difficult to adequately and profitably manage our growth through the establishment of bank branches and loan production offices in new markets. In addition, we can provide no assurance that our expansion into any such new markets will successfully attract enough new business to offset the expenses of their operation. If we are not able to do so, our earnings and stock price may be negatively impacted. 25 Acquisition of assets and assumption of liabilities may expose us to intangible asset risk, which could impact our results of operations and financial condition. In connection with any acquisitions, as required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, we will record assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their fair value and, as such, acquisitions may result in our recording of intangible assets, including core deposit intangibles and goodwill. We will perform a goodwill impairment assessment at least annually. Impairment testing is a two-step process that first compares the fair value of goodwill with its carrying amount, and the second step, if necessary, measures impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. Adverse conditions in the business climate, including a significant decline in future operating cash flows, a significant change in our stock price or market capitalization, or a deviation from our expected growth rate and performance may trigger impairment losses, which could be materially adverse to our results of operations, financial condition and stock price. The success of our growth strategy depends on our ability to identify and retain individuals with experience and relationships in the markets in which we intend to expand. Our growth strategy contemplates that we will expand our business and operations to other markets, particularly in the Carolinas. We intend to primarily target market areas that we believe possess attractive demographic, economic or competitive characteristics. To expand into new markets successfully, we must identify and retain experienced key management members with local expertise and relationships in these markets. Competition for qualified personnel in the markets in which we may expand may be intense, and there may be a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of and experience in the commercial banking industry in these markets. Even if we identify individuals that we believe could assist us in establishing a presence in a new market, we may be unable to recruit these individuals away from other banks or be unable to do so at a reasonable cost. In addition, the process of identifying and recruiting individuals with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategy is often lengthy. Our inability to identify, recruit and retain talented personnel to manage new offices effectively would limit our growth and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. We may need additional access to capital, which we may be unable to obtain on attractive terms or at all. We may need to incur additional debt or equity financing in the future to make strategic acquisitions or investments, redeem our Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A for future growth or to fund losses or additional provision for loan losses in the future. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend in part on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we may be unable to raise additional capital, if and when needed, on terms acceptable to it, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired and our stock price negatively affected. Risks Related to FDIC-Assisted Transactions We are subject to certain risks related to FDIC-assisted transactions. The success of past FDIC-assisted transactions, including the acquisitions of Beach First, Blue Ridge, and Carolina Federal, and any FDIC-assisted transaction in which we may participate in the future will depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the following: ·our ability to fully integrate, and to integrate successfully, the branches acquired into our operations; ·our ability to limit the outflow of deposits held by our new customers in the acquired branches and to successfully retain and manage interest-earning assets (loans) acquired in FDIC-assisted transactions; ·our ability to retain existing deposits and to generate new interest-earning assets in the geographic areas previously served by the acquired banks; ·our ability to effectively compete in new markets in which we did not previously have a presence; 26 ·our success in deploying the cash received in the FDIC-assisted transactions into assets bearing sufficiently high yields without incurring unacceptable credit or interest rate risk; ·our ability to control the incremental non-interest expense from the acquired branches in a manner that enables us to maintain a favorable overall efficiency ratio; ·our ability to retain and attract the appropriate personnel to staff the acquired branches; and ·our ability to earn acceptable levels of interest and non-interest income, including fee income, from the acquired branches. As with any acquisition involving a financial institution, particularly one involving the transfer of a large number of bank branches as is often the case with FDIC-assisted transactions, there may be higher than average levels of service disruptions that would cause inconveniences or potentially increase the effectiveness of competing financial institutions in attracting our customers. Integrating the acquired branches would not be an operation of substantial size and expense that we are not familiar with, but we anticipate unique challenges and opportunities because of the nature of the transaction. Integration efforts will also likely divert our management’s attention and resources. It is not known whether we will be able to integrate acquired branches successfully, and the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the FDIC-assisted transactions. We may also encounter unexpected difficulties or costs during the integration that could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition, perhaps materially. Additionally, we may be unable to achieve results in the future similar to those achieved by our existing banking business, to compete effectively in the market areas previously served by the acquired branches or to manage any growth resulting from FDIC-assisted transactions effectively. Our willingness and ability to grow the acquired branches following FDIC-assisted transactions depend on several factors, most importantly the ability to retain certain key personnel that we hire or transfer in connection with such transactions. Our failure to retain these employees could adversely affect the success of such transactions and our future growth. FDIC-assisted acquisition opportunities may not become available and increased competition may make it more difficult for us to bid on failed bank transactions on terms we consider to be acceptable. Our business strategy includes consideration of potential acquisitions of failing banks that the FDIC plans to place in receivership. The FDIC may not place banks that meet our strategic objectives into receivership. Failed bank transactions are attractive opportunities in part because of loss-share arrangements with the FDIC that limit the acquirer’s downside risk on the purchased loan portfolio and, apart from our assumption of deposit liabilities, we have significant discretion as to the nondeposit liabilities that we assume. In addition, assets purchased from the FDIC are marked to their fair value and in many cases there is little or no addition to goodwill arising from an FDIC-assisted transaction. The bidding process for failing banks could become very competitive, and the increased competition may make it more difficult for us to bid on terms we consider to be acceptable. Changes in national and local economic conditions could lead to higher loan charge-offs in connection with past FDIC-assisted transactions, all of which may not be supported by loss-share agreements with the FDIC. Although loan portfolios acquired in past FDIC-assisted transactions have initially been accounted for at fair value, we do not yet know whether the loans we acquired will become impaired, and impairment may result in additional charge-offs to the portfolio. The fluctuations in national, regional and local economic conditions, including those related to local residential, commercial real estate and construction markets, may increase the level of charge-offs that we make to our loan portfolio, and, consequently, reduce our net income, and may also increase the level of charge-offs on the loan portfolios that we have acquired such acquisitions and correspondingly reduce our net income. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled and may have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition even if other favorable events occur. Although we have entered into loss-share agreements with the FDIC which provide that a significant portion of losses related to specified loan portfolios that we have acquired in connection with the FDIC-assisted transactions will be borne by the FDIC, we are not protected for all losses resulting from charge-offs with respect to those specified loan portfolios. Additionally, the loss-share agreements have limited terms; therefore, any charge-off of related losses that we experience after the term of the loss-share agreements will not be reimbursable by the FDIC and will negatively impact our net income. The loss-share agreements also impose standard requirements on us which must be satisfied in order to retain loss-share protections. 27 Risks Related to Our common stock The price of our common stock is volatile and may decline. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: ·actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; ·changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other financial institutions; ·failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates; ·speculation in the press or investment community; ·strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; ·actions by institutional shareholders; ·fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; ·general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry; ·proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments; ·anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us; or ·domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual shareholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation. Our trading volume has been low compared with larger national and regional banks. Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market. However, the trading volume of our common stock is relatively low when compared with more seasoned companies listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, NASDAQ Global Select Market, or other consolidated reporting systems or stock exchanges. Thus, the market in our common stock may be limited in scope relative to other larger companies. In addition, we cannot say with any certainty that a more active and liquid trading market for our common stock will develop. Securities issued by us, including our common stock, are not FDIC insured. Securities issued by us, including our common stock, are not savings or deposit accounts or other obligations of any bank and are not insured by the FDIC, the DIF or any other governmental agency or instrumentality, or any private insurer, and are subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of principal. 28 We have issued Series A Preferred Stock and subordinated debentures outstanding which rank senior to our common stock. We have issued 31,260 shares of Series A Preferred Stock. This series of preferred stock ranks senior to the common stock. As a result, we must make dividend payments on our Series A Preferred Stock before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our common stock. If we do not remain current in the payment of dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock, no dividends may be paid on our common stock. In addition, we have issued and have outstanding $23.7 million in subordinated debentures in connection with the issuance of trust preferred securities, and BNC has issued and have outstanding $2.5 million in subordinated debt securities. These debentures and debt securities also rank senior to our common stock. Our Series A Preferred Stock reduces net income available to holders of our common stock and earnings per common share. The dividends declared on our Series A Preferred Stock will reduce any net income available to holders of common stock and our earnings per common share. Our Series A Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of sale, merger, liquidation, dissolution or winding up of our company. We may issue additional debt and equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, any of which may be senior to our common stock as to distributions and in liquidation, which could negatively affect the value of our common stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by entering into debt or debt-like financing that is unsecured or secured by all or up to all of our assets, or by issuing additional debt or equity securities, which could include issuances of secured or unsecured commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior notes, subordinated notes, preferred stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for equity securities. In the event of our liquidation, our lenders and holders of our debt and preferred securities would receive a distribution of our available assets before distributions to the holders of our common stock. Because our decision to incur debt and issue securities in our future offerings will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate with certainty the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings and debt financings. Further, market conditions could require us to accept less favorable terms for the issuance of our securities in the future. Sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception of such sales, could depress the market price of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets and the availability of those shares for sale could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, future issuances of equity securities, including pursuant to outstanding options, could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We may issue such additional equity or convertible securities to raise additional capital. Depending on the amount offered and the levels at which we offer the stock, issuances of common or preferred stock could be substantially dilutive to shareholders of our common stock. Moreover, to the extent that we issue restricted stock, phantom shares, stock appreciation rights, options or warrants to purchase our common stock in the future and those stock appreciation rights, options or warrants are exercised or as shares of the restricted stock vest, our shareholders may experience further dilution. Holders of our shares of common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our shareholders. We cannot predict with certainty the effect that future sales of our common stock would have on the market price of our common stock. We may reduce or eliminate dividends on our common stock. Although we have historically paid a quarterly cash dividend to the holders of our common stock, holders of our common stock are not entitled to receive dividends. Downturns in the domestic and global economies could cause our Board of Directors to consider, among other things, reducing or eliminating of dividends paid on our common stock. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may not pay dividends on our common stock unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods are fully paid on our outstanding Series A preferred stock. Furthermore, as a bank holding company, our ability to pay dividends is subject to the guidelines of the Federal Reserve regarding capital adequacy and dividends before declaring or paying any dividends. Dividends also may be limited as a result of safety and soundness considerations. 29 Our articles of incorporation, as amended, amended and restated bylaws, and certain banking laws may have an anti-takeover effect. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws, as amended, and federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our shareholders. The combination of these provisions may prohibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 