ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSThe following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.Our operations will be affected by global economic fluctuations.Client's demand for our services may fluctuate with changes in economic conditions in the markets in which we operate. Those conditions include slower employment growth or reductions in employment. We have limited flexibility to reduce expenses during economic downturns due to some overhead costs which are fixed in the short-term. Furthermore, we may face increased pricing pressures during economic downturns. For example, during the 2008 and 2009 economic downturn, many employers in our operating regions reduced their overall workforce to reflect the slowing demand for their products and services. Employers continuing to operate with these reduced workforces contributed to operating losses for our company in 2012. Economic conditions could remain weak in 2013, which may result in lower operating results than we currently expect. Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter; no single quarter is predictive of future periods' results. Our operating results fluctuate quarter to quarter primarily due to the vacation periods during the first quarter in the Asia Pacific region and the third quarter in the Americas and Europe regions. Demand for our services is typically lower during traditional national vacation periods when clients and candidates are on vacation.Our revenue can vary because our clients can terminate their relationship with us at any time with limited or no penalty.We provide professional mid-market personnel on a temporary assignment-by-assignment basis, which clients can generally terminate at any time or reduce their level of use when compared to prior periods. Our professional recruitment business is also significantly affected by our clients' hiring needs and their views of their future prospects. These factors can also affect our RPO business. Clients may, on very short notice, terminate, reduce or postpone their recruiting assignments with us and, therefore, affect demand for our services. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our markets are highly competitive. The markets for our services are highly competitive. Our markets are characterized by pressures to provide high levels of service, incorporate new capabilities and technologies, accelerate job completion schedules and reduce prices. Furthermore, we face competition from a number of sources. These sources include other executive search firms and professional search, staffing and consulting firms. Several of our competitors have greater financial and marketing resources than we do. Due to competition, we may experience reduced margins on our services, loss of market share and our customers. If we are not able to compete effectively with current or future competitors as a result of these and other factors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.We have no significant proprietary technology that would preclude or inhibit competitors from entering the mid-market professional staffing contract and consulting markets. We cannot provide assurance that existing or future competitors will not develop or offer services that provide significant performance, price, creative or other advantages over our services. In addition, we believe that, with continuing development and increased availability of information technology, the industries in which we compete may attract new competitors. Specifically, the increased use of the Internet may attract technology-oriented companies to the professional staffing industry. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to continue to compete effectively against existing or future competitors. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.- 5 -Our investment strategy subjects us to risks. From time to time, we make investments as part of our growth plans. Investments may not perform as expected because they are dependent on a variety of factors, including our ability to effectively integrate new personnel and operations, our ability to sell new services, and our ability to retain existing or gain new clients. Furthermore, we may need to borrow more money from lenders or sell equity or debt securities to the public to finance future investments and the terms of these financings may be adverse to us.We face risks related to our international operations. We conduct operations in approximately twenty countries and face both translation and transaction risks related to foreign currency exchange. For the year ended December 31, 2012, approximately 86% of our gross margin was earned outside of the U.S. Our financial results could be materially affected by a number of factors particular to international operations. These include, but are not limited to, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, operational issues such as longer customer payment cycles and greater difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, changes in tax laws or other regulatory requirements, issues relating to uncertainties of laws and enforcement relating to the regulation and protection of intellectual property, and currency fluctuation. If we are forced to discontinue any of our international operations, we could incur material costs to close down such operations.Regarding the foreign currency risk inherent in international operations, the results of our local operations are reported in the applicable foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable foreign currency exchange rates for inclusion in our financial statements. In addition, we generally pay operating expenses in the corresponding local currency. Because of devaluations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates or the imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars, we are subject to currency translation exposure on the revenue and income of our operations in addition to economic exposure. Our consolidated U.S. dollar cash balance could be lower because a significant amount of cash is generated outside of the U.S. This risk could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on our key management personnel. Our continued success will depend to a significant extent on our senior management team. The loss of the services of one or more key senior management team member could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if one or more key employees join a competitor or form a competing company, the resulting loss of existing or potential clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success also depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled professionals who possess the skills and experience necessary to meet the staffing requirements of our clients. We must continually evaluate and upgrade our base of available qualified personnel to keep pace with changing client needs and emerging technologies. Furthermore, a substantial number of our contractors during any given year may terminate their employment with us and accept regular staff employment with our clients. Competition for qualified professionals with proven skills is intense, and demand for these individuals is expected to remain strong for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that qualified personnel will continue to be available to us in sufficient numbers. If we are unable to attract the necessary qualified personnel for our clients, it may have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.- 6 -We face risks in collecting our accounts receivable.In virtually all of our businesses, we invoice customers after providing services, which creates accounts receivable. Delays or defaults in payments owed to us could have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Factors that could cause a delay or default include, but are not limited to, global economic conditions, business failures, and turmoil in the financial and credit markets. In certain situations, we provide our services to clients under a contractual relationship with a third-party vendor manager, rather than directly to the client. In those circumstances, the third-party vendor manager is typically responsible for aggregating billing information, collecting receivables from the client and paying staffing suppliers once funds are received from the client. In the event that the client has paid the vendor manager for our services and we are unable to collect from the vendor manager, we may be exposed to financial losses.We have had periods of negative cash flows and operating losses that may reoccur in the future.We have experienced negative cash flows and reported operating and net losses in the past. For example, our cash flows from operations were negative during 2010 and we had operating and net losses for the year ended December 31, 2012. We cannot provide any assurance that we will have positive cash flows or operating profitability in the future, particularly to the extent the global economy continues to recover slowly from the global economic downturn. If our revenue declines or if operating expenses exceed our expectations, we may not be profitable and may not generate positive operating cash flows.Our credit facilities restrict our operating flexibility.Our credit facilities contain various restrictions and covenants that restrict our operating flexibility including:•borrowings limited to eligible receivables;•lenders' ability to impose restrictions, such as payroll or other reserves;•limitations on payments of dividends;•restrictions on our ability to make additional borrowings, or to consolidate, merge or otherwise fundamentally change our ownership;•limitations on capital expenditures, investments, dispositions of assets, guarantees of indebtedness, permitted acquisitions and repurchases of stock; and•limitations on certain intercompany payments of expenses, interest and dividends. These restrictions and covenants could have adverse consequences for investors, including the consequences of our need to use a portion of our cash flow from operations for debt service, rather than for our operations, restrictions on our ability to incur additional debt financing for future working capital or capital expenditures, a lesser ability for us to take advantage of significant business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities, the potential need for us to undertake equity transactions which may dilute the ownership of existing investors, and our inability to react to market conditions by selling lesser-performing assets. In addition, a default, amendment or waiver to our credit facilities to avoid a default may result in higher rates of interest and could impact our ability to obtain additional borrowings. Finally, debt incurred under our credit facilities bears interest at variable rates. Any increase in interest expense could reduce the funds available for operations.- 7 -If we are unable to maintain costs at an acceptable level, our operations could be adversely impacted.Our ability to reduce costs in line with expectations is important for the improvement of our profitability. Efforts to improve our efficiency could be affected by several factors including turnover, client demands, market conditions, changes in laws, and availability of talent. Our failure to realize the expected benefits of these cost reduction initiatives could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We rely on our information systems, and if we lose our information processing capabilities or fail to further develop our technology, our business could be adversely affected.Our success depends in large part upon our ability to store, retrieve, process, and manage substantial amounts of information, including our client and candidate databases. To achieve our strategic objectives and to remain competitive, we must continue to develop and enhance our information systems. This may require the acquisition of equipment and software and the development, either internally or through independent consultants, of new proprietary software. Our inability to design, develop, implement and utilize, in a cost-effective manner, information systems that provide the capabilities necessary for us to compete effectively, or any interruption or loss of our information processing capabilities, for any reason, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.As we operate in an international human resources environment, we are subject to cyber-security risks and incidents. Our business involves the storage and transmission of our candidates' personal information, our clients' job requirement preferences and confidential information used in our Legal eDiscovery practice. We also use mobile devices, social networking and other online activities to connect with our candidates, clients and business partners. While we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our measures may not be effective and any security breaches or cyber incidents could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our business depends on uninterrupted service to clients.Our operations depend on our ability to protect our facilities, computer and telecommunication equipment and software systems against damage or interruption from fire, power loss, cyber attacks, sabotage, telecommunications interruption, weather conditions, natural disasters and other similar events such as Hurricane Sandy experienced in the Northeastern United States in late October 2012, the flooding experienced throughout Queensland, Australia in January 2011 and the major earthquake that occurred in Christchurch, New Zealand in February 2011. Additionally, severe weather can cause our employees or contractors to miss work and interrupt delivery of our service, resulting in a loss of revenue. While interruptions of these types that have occurred in the past have not caused material disruption, it is not possible to predict the type, severity or frequency of interruptions in the future or their impact on our business. - 8 -We may be exposed to employment-related claims, legal liability and costs from clients, employers and regulatory authorities that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, and our insurance coverage may not cover all of our potential liability.We are in the business of employing people and placing them in the workplaces of other businesses. Risks relating to these activities include:•claims of misconduct or negligence on the part of our employees;•claims by our employees of discrimination or harassment directed at them, including claims relating to actions of our clients;•claims related to the employment of illegal aliens or unlicensed personnel;•claims for payment of workers' compensation and other similar claims;•claims for violations of wage and hour requirements;•claims for retroactive entitlement to employee benefits;•claims of errors and omissions of our temporary employees;•claims by taxing authorities related to our independent contractors and the risk that such contractors could be considered employees for tax purposes;•claims by candidates that we place for wrongful termination or denial of employment;•claims related to our non-compliance with data protection laws, which require the consent of a candidate to transfer resumes and other data; and•claims by our clients relating to our employees' misuse of client proprietary information, misappropriation of funds, other misconduct, criminal activity or similar claims.We are exposed to potential claims with respect to the recruitment process. A client could assert a claim for matters such as breach of a blocking arrangement or recommending a candidate who subsequently proves to be unsuitable for the position filled. Similarly, a client could assert a claim for deceptive trade practices on the grounds that we failed to disclose certain referral information about the candidate or misrepresented material information about the candidate. Further, the current employer of a candidate whom we place could file a claim against us alleging interference with an employment contract. In addition, a candidate could assert an action against us for failure to maintain the confidentiality of the candidate's employment search or for alleged discrimination or other violations of employment law by one of our clients.We may incur fines and other losses or negative publicity with respect to these problems. In addition, some or all of these claims may give rise to litigation, which could be time-consuming to our management team, costly and could have a negative effect on our business. In some cases, we have agreed to indemnify our clients against some or all of these types of liabilities. We cannot assure that we will not experience these problems in the future, that our insurance will cover all claims, or that our insurance coverage will continue to be available at economically-feasible rates.It is possible that we may still incur liabilities associated with certain pre-spin off activities with Monster. Under the terms of our Distribution Agreement with Monster, these liabilities generally will continue to be retained by us. If these liabilities are significant, the retained liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. However, in some circumstance, we may have claims against Monster, and we will make a determination on a case by case basis. - 9 -Our ability to utilize net operating loss carry-forwards may be limited.The Company has U.S. net operating loss carry-forwards (“NOLs”) that expire through 2032. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code imposes an annual limitation on a corporation's ability to utilize NOLs if it experiences an “ownership change.” In general terms, an ownership change may result from transactions increasing the ownership of certain stockholders in the stock of a corporation by more than 50% over a three-year period. The Company has experienced ownership changes in the past. Ownership changes in our stock, some of which are outside of our control, could result in a limitation in our ability to use our NOLs to offset future taxable income, could cause U.S. Federal income taxes to be paid earlier than otherwise would be paid if such limitation were not in effect and could cause such NOLs to expire unused, reducing or eliminating the benefit of such NOLs.There may be volatility in our stock price.The market price for our common stock has fluctuated in the past and could fluctuate substantially in the future. For example, during 2012, the market price of our common stock reported on the NASDAQ Global Select Market ranged from a high of $5.98 to a low of $3.23. Factors such as general macroeconomic conditions adverse to workforce expansion, the announcement of variations in our quarterly financial results or changes in our expected financial results could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. Further, due to the volatility of the stock market generally, the price of our common stock could fluctuate for reasons unrelated to our operating performance. Our future earnings could be reduced as a result of the imposition of licensing or tax requirements or new regulations that prohibit, or restrict certain types of employment services we offer.In many jurisdictions in which we operate, the provision of temporary staffing is heavily regulated. For example, governmental regulations can restrict the length of contracts of contract employees and the industries in which they may be used. In some countries, special taxes, fees or costs are imposed in connection with the use of contract workers. The countries in which we operate may:•create additional regulations that prohibit or restrict the types of employment services that we currently provide;•impose new or additional benefit requirements;•require us to obtain additional licensing to provide staffing services;•impose new or additional visa restrictions on movements between countries;•increase taxes, such as sales or value-added taxes, payable by the providers of staffing services;•increase the number of various tax and compliance audits relating to a variety of regulations, including wage and hour laws, unemployment taxes, workers' compensation, immigration, and income, value-added and sales taxes; or•revise transfer pricing laws or successfully challenge our transfer prices, which may result in higher foreign taxes or tax liabilities or double taxation of our foreign operations.Any future regulations that make it more difficult or expensive for us to continue to provide our staffing services may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.- 10 -Provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law will make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us.Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain several provisions that make more difficult an acquisition of control of us in a transaction not approved by our Board of Directors, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current prices, and that may limit the ability of stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws include provisions: •dividing our Board of Directors into three classes to be elected on a staggered basis, one class each year;•authorizing our Board of Directors to issue shares of our preferred stock in one or more series without further authorization of our stockholders;•requiring that stockholders provide advance notice of any stockholder nomination of directors or any of new business to be considered at any meeting of stockholders;•permitting removal of directors only for cause by a super-majority vote;•providing that vacancies on our Board of Directors will be filled by the remaining directors then in office;•requiring that a super-majority vote be obtained to amend or repeal specified provisions of our certificate of incorporation or by-laws; and•eliminating the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders or take action by written consent without a meeting of stockholders. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally provides that a corporation may not engage in any business combination with any interested stockholder during the three-year period following the time that the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless a majority of the directors then in office approve either the business combination or the transaction that results in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder or specified stockholder approval requirements are met.In February 2005, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of one preferred share purchase right (a “Right”) for each outstanding share of our common stock payable upon the close of business on February 28, 2005 to the stockholders of record on that date. Each Right entitles the registered holder to purchase from us one one-hundredth (1/100th) of a share of our Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock (“Preferred Shares”) at a price of $60 per one one-hundredth of a Preferred Share, subject to adjustment. These Rights may make the cost of acquiring us more expensive and, therefore, make an acquisition more difficult. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.- 11 -