ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our operations will be affected by global economic fluctuations, including the current global economic downturn. Demand for our services fluctuates with changes in economic conditions of the markets in which we operate. Those conditions include slower employment growth, or reductions in employment, as is being experienced at the present time, as a result of the global recession. Because we operate from many offices with fixed overhead, we have only limited flexibility to reduce expenses during economic downturns. Further, we may face increased pricing pressures during these times. For example, during 2008, employers in most of our operating regions reduced their overall workforce to reflect the reduced demand for their products and services. The economic slowdown that had been evident primarily with our clients in the financial services sector in the U.S. and the U.K. accelerated in the second half of 2008 and spread rapidly to other industries and countries. By the fourth quarter of 2006, virtually all of our markets showed declines in their gross domestic product. At the same time, the U.S. dollar strengthened against all of our major non-U.S. currencies, which reduced the dollar-denominated value of our foreign earnings and cash flow from our foreign sales. We expect weak global economic conditions to persist throughout 2009, resulting in a further reduction in demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We also expect the stronger U.S. dollar to persist in 2009, at least against some of its major non-U.S. currencies. Our revenue can vary because our clients can terminate their relationship with us at any time with limited or no penalty. We provide professional mid-market staffing services on a temporary assignment-by-assignment basis, which clients can generally terminate at any time or reduce their level of use when compared to prior periods. Our professional recruitment business is also significantly affected by our clients hiring needs and their views of their future prospects. Clients may, on very short notice, reduce or postpone their recruiting assignments with us and therefore, affect demand for our services. Given the current economic conditions, many companies may decrease their spending on projects and staffing, including our clients who may terminate or reduce their level of services with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We face risks in collecting our accounts receivable. In virtually all of our businesses, we invoice customers after providing services, which creates accounts receivable. Delays or defaults in payments owed to us could have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Factors that could cause a delay or default include, but are not limited to, business failures, turmoil in the financial and credit markets, and global economic conditions. Given current economic conditions, we are particularly susceptible to delays or defaults in payment by our customers. If we are unable to implement effectively our cost reduction initiatives, including outsourcing, our ability to compete could be adversely impacted and our regional operations could be disrupted. We are undertaking a series of cost reduction initiatives. In 2008, we initiated a number of structural cost reduction and productivity improvement initiatives in our operations to reduce costs and improve profitability. Our future profitability depends upon our continued success in implementing these restructuring initiatives and 6 Table of Contents achieving anticipated cost reductions. The impact of these cost-reduction actions on our revenue, operating results and cash flows may be influenced by factors including, our ability to successfully complete these ongoing efforts and our ability to generate the level of cost savings we expect or that are necessary to enable us to effectively compete in the staffing industry. On January 30, 2009, we entered into an outsourcing agreement with a company located in India for certain back-office processes currently performed in Australia and New Zealand. The processes being outsourced are payroll, invoicing, accounts payable, accounts receivable and transactional accounting. The efficient operation of that regional business is dependent on the stability of the Indian political environment. Substantially all of the specially-trained employees at the Indian company are Indian nationals. Because substantially all of the named operations will be transferred, it may not be possible to replace the Indian-based employees in another location, should operations at this Indian company be disrupted. This could impact the operational efficiency of the regional business. We have had periods of negative cash flows and operating losses that may reoccur in the future. We have experienced negative cash flows and shown operating and net losses in the past. For example, our cash flows from operations were negative in two quarters during 2008 and we had a net loss from continuing operations of $77.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, which was primarily attributable to a $67.1 million non-cash charge for impairment related to goodwill, intangibles and other assets. We cannot provide any assurance that we will have positive cash flows or operating profitability in the future, particularly to the extent the global economy remains in a recession. If our revenue declines or if operating expenses exceed our expectations, we may not be profitable and may not generate positive operating cash flows. We have limited borrowing availability under our credit facility, which may negatively impact our liquidity. Extensions of credit under our credit facility are permitted based on a borrowing base, which is an agreed percentage of eligible accounts receivable, less required reserves, letters of credit and outstanding borrowings. As of December 31, 2008, we had $5.3 million of outstanding borrowings and $5.4 million of letters of credit issued under our credit facility and we were able to borrow an additional $19.7 million under our credit facility. As of February 16, 2009, we had $11.2 million of outstanding borrowings and $5.2 million of letters of credit issued under our credit facility and we were able to borrow an additional $2.3 million under our credit facility, when the receivables of January 2009 are taken into account. Our ability to borrow under the credit facility is tied to a borrowing base of our eligible accounts receivable. If the amount or quality of our accounts receivable deteriorates, then our ability to borrow under the credit facility will be directly affected. We expect weak global economic conditions to persist throughout 2009, resulting in a reduction in demand for our services, which may reduce our eligible accounts receivable and thus our borrowing capacity under the credit facility. Our lender periodically audits our accounts receivable to determine, among other things, borrowing base eligibility, and such audits may result in reductions to our borrowing base. In addition, our lender can impose other conditions, such as payroll and other reserves for any reason without notice. As a result, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to borrow under our credit agreement if we need money to fund working capital or other needs. If sources of liquidity are not available or if we cannot generate sufficient cash flows from operations, then we may be required to obtain additional sources of funds through additional operating improvements, capital markets transactions, asset sales or financing from third parties, or a combination thereof and under certain conditions such transactions could substantially dilute the ownership of existing stockholders. We cannot provide assurance that these additional sources of funds will be available, or if available, would have reasonable terms, particularly in light of the current credit market turmoil. 7 Table of Contents Our credit facility restricts our operating flexibility. Our credit facility also contains various restrictions and covenants that restrict our operating flexibility including: • prohibitions on payments of dividends; • restrictions on our ability to make additional borrowings, or to consolidate, merge or otherwise fundamentally change our ownership; and • limitations on capital expenditures, investments, dispositions of assets, guarantees of indebtedness, permitted acquisitions and repurchases of stock. These restrictions and covenants could have important consequences for investors, including the need to use a portion of our cash flow from operations for debt service rather than for our operations, restrictions on our ability to incur additional debt financing for future working capital or capital expenditures, a lesser ability to take advantage of significant business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities, or to react to market conditions by selling lesser-performing assets. The amounts available under our credit facility are dependent on the level of our eligible accounts receivable generated in the United States, Australia and United Kingdom. Reduction in these eligible accounts receivable, as is occurring at present due to the economic downturn and the reduction in demand for our services, reduces the amounts we may borrow. If we were forced to issue equity or equity linked instruments in order to obtain additional financing, under current circumstances, it would be highly dilutive to our stockholders. In addition, under the credit agreement our lender has the right to require additional reserves at any time for any reason without prior notice to us. These actions would also reduce the amounts available to us under the credit facility. In addition, a default or amendment or waiver to our credit agreement to avoid a default may result in higher rates of interest and the inability to obtain additional borrowings. For example, the amendment to our credit facility that we entered into on December 30, 2008 to eliminate a minimum quarterly EBITDA covenant resulted in higher interest rates and a reduction in the amount that we may borrow under the credit facility. Finally, debt incurred under our credit facility bears interest at variable rates. Any increase in interest expense could reduce the funds available for operations. Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter and therefore quarterly results cannot be used to predict future periods’ results. Our operating results fluctuate quarter to quarter primarily due to the vacation periods during the first quarter in the Asia Pacific region and the third quarter in the Americas and Europe regions. Demand for our services is typically lower during traditional national vacation periods when clients are on vacation as well. We face risks relating to our international operations. We conduct operations in more than twenty countries. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, approximately 75%, 76% and 74%, respectively, of our revenue was earned outside of the United States. Our financial results could be materially affected by a number of factors particular to international operations. These include, but are not limited to, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, operational issues such as longer customer payment cycles and greater difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, changes in tax laws or other regulatory requirements; issues relating to uncertainties of laws and enforcement relating to the regulation and protection of intellectual property; and currency fluctuation. If we are forced to discontinue any of our international operations, we could incur material costs to close down such operations. Regarding the foreign currency risk inherent in international operations, the results of our local operations are reported in the applicable foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable foreign 8 Table of Contents currency exchange rates for inclusion in our financial statements. In addition, we generally pay operating expenses in the corresponding local currency. Because of devaluations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates or the imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars, we are subject to currency translation exposure on the revenue and income of our operations in addition to economic exposure. For example, in the second half of 2008, the U.S. dollar strengthened against all of our major non-U.S. currencies, which had a negative impact on our results of operations for 2008, and we expect the stronger U.S. dollar to persist in 2009, at least against some of our major non-U.S. currencies. Our consolidated U.S. dollar cash balance could be lower because significant amount of cash is generated outside the United States. This risk could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our investment strategy subjects us to risks. From time to time, we make investments, including acquisitions, as part of our growth plans. We may not be able to find suitable investments, or the investments we make may not perform as expected because they are dependent on a variety of factors, including our ability to effectively integrate acquired personnel and operations, our ability to sell new products and services and our ability to retain the clients of acquired firms or gain new clients. Furthermore, we may need to borrow more money from lenders or sell equity or debt securities to the public to finance future investments and the terms of these financings may be adverse to us. We face risks associated with our dispositions of underperforming or non-core assets. We have disposed of several non-core businesses since the third quarter of 2006. We have retained liabilities of these businesses and may be responsible for certain potential indemnification claims by the purchasers. We may not be able to settle the liabilities at the recorded value in our financial statements and indemnification claims may adversely affect our financial results. Further, we may have risks associated with our ability to effectively restructure our operations following these dispositions. We rely on our information systems, and if we lose that technology or fail to further develop our technology, our business could be harmed. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to store, retrieve, process, and manage substantial amounts of information, including our client and candidate databases. To achieve our strategic objectives and to remain competitive, we must continue to develop and enhance our information systems. This may require the acquisition of equipment and software and the development, either internally or through independent consultants, of new proprietary software. Our inability to design, develop, implement and utilize, in a cost-effective manner, information systems that provide the capabilities necessary for us to compete effectively, or any interruption or loss of our information processing capabilities, for any reason, could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our markets are highly competitive. The markets for our services are highly competitive. Our markets are characterized by pressures to reduce prices, provide high levels of service, incorporate new capabilities and technologies, accelerate job completion schedules and attract and retain highly skilled professionals who possess the skills and experience necessary to fulfill our clients’ employee search needs. Furthermore, we face competition from a number of sources. These sources include other executive search firms and professional search, staffing and consulting firms. Several of our competitors have greater financial and marketing resources than we do. Due to competition, we may experience reduced margins on our products and services, and loss of market share and our customers. If we are not able to compete effectively with current or future competitors as a result of these and other factors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents We have no significant proprietary technology that would preclude or inhibit competitors from entering the mid-market professional staffing contract and consulting markets. We cannot provide assurance that existing or future competitors will not develop or offer services and products that provide significant performance, price, creative or other advantages over our services. In addition, we believe that with continuing development and increased availability of information technology, the industries in which we compete may attract new competitors. Specifically, the increased use of the Internet may attract technology-oriented companies to the professional staffing industry. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to continue to compete effectively against existing or future competitors. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We may be exposed to employment-related claims, legal liability and costs from both clients and employers that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and our insurance coverage may not cover all of our potential liability. We are in the business of employing people and placing them in the workplaces of other businesses. Risks relating to these activities include: • claims of misconduct or negligence on the part of our employees; • claims by our employees of discrimination or harassment directed at them, including claims relating to action of our clients; • claims related to the employment of illegal aliens or unlicensed personnel; • claims for payment of workers’ compensation claims and other similar claims; • claims for violations of wage and hour requirements; • claims for retroactive entitlement to employee benefits; • claims of errors and omissions of our temporary employees, particularly in the case of professionals; • claims by taxing authorities related to our employment of independent contractors and the risk that such contractors could be considered employees for tax purposes; • claims related to our non-compliance with data protection laws which require the consent of a candidate to transfer resumes and other data; and • claims by our clients relating to our employees’ misuse of client proprietary information, misappropriation of funds, other misconduct, criminal activity or similar claims. We are exposed to potential claims with respect to the recruitment process. A client could assert a claim for matters such as breach of a blocking arrangement or recommending a candidate who subsequently proves to be unsuitable for the position filled. Similarly, a client could assert a claim for deceptive trade practices on the grounds that we failed to disclose certain referral information about the candidate or misrepresented material information about the candidate. Further, the current employer of a candidate whom we place could file a claim against us alleging interference with an employment contract. In addition, a candidate could assert an action against us for failure to maintain the confidentiality of the candidate’s employment search or for alleged discrimination or other violations of employment law by one of our clients. We may incur fines and other losses or negative publicity with respect to these problems. In addition, some or all of these claims may give rise to litigation, which could be time-consuming to our management team, costly and could have a negative effect on our business. In some cases, we have agreed to indemnify our clients against some or all of these types of liabilities. We cannot assure you that we will not experience these problems in the future, that our insurance will cover all claims, or that our insurance coverage will continue to be available at economically-feasible rates. From time to time, we may still incur liabilities associated with pre-spin off activities with Monster. Under the terms of our Distribution Agreement with Monster, these liabilities will be retained by us. If these liabilities are significant, the retained liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 10 Table of Contents We depend on our key management personnel. Our continued success will depend to a significant extent on our senior management, including Jon F. Chait, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of Mr. Chait or one or more key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, if one or more key employees join a competitor or form a competing company, the resulting loss of existing or potential clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. There may be volatility in our stock price. The market price for our common stock has fluctuated in the past and could fluctuate substantially in the future. For example, during 2008, the market prices of our common stock reported on the NASDAQ Global Market ranged from a high of $13.00 to a low of $2.00. Factors such as general macroeconomic conditions adverse to workforce expansion, the announcement of variations in our quarterly financial results or changes in our expected financial results could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. Further, due to the volatility of the stock market generally, the price of our common stock could fluctuate for reasons unrelated to our operating performance. Government regulations may result in the prohibition, regulation or restriction of certain types of employment services we offer or in the imposition of additional licensing or tax requirements that may reduce our future earnings. In many jurisdictions in which we operate, the contract staffing industry is heavily regulated. For example, governmental regulations can restrict the length of contracts of contract employees and the industries in which they may be used. In some countries, special taxes, fees or costs are imposed in connection with the use of contract workers. The countries in which we operate may: • create additional regulations that prohibit or restrict the types of employment services that we currently provide; • impose new or additional benefit requirements; • require us to obtain additional licensing to provide staffing services; • impose new or additional visa restrictions on movements between countries; or • increase taxes, such as sales or value-added taxes, payable by the providers of staffing services. Any future regulations that make it more difficult or expensive for us to continue to provide our staffing services may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law will make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain several provisions that make more difficult an acquisition of control of us in a transaction not approved by our Board of Directors, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current prices, and that may limit the ability of stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws include provisions: • dividing our Board of Directors into three classes to be elected on a staggered basis, one class each year; • authorizing our Board of Directors to issue shares of our preferred stock in one or more series without further authorization of our stockholders; 11 Table of Contents • requiring that stockholders provide advance notice of any stockholder nomination of directors or any proposal of new business to be considered at any meeting of stockholders; • permitting removal of directors only for cause by a super-majority vote; • providing that vacancies on our Board of Directors will be filled by the remaining directors then in office; • requiring that a super-majority vote be obtained to amend or repeal specified provisions of our certificate of incorporation or by-laws; and • eliminating the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders or take action by written consent without a meeting of stockholders. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally provides that a corporation may not engage in any business combination with any interested stockholder during the three-year period following the time that the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless a majority of the directors then in office approve either the business combination or the transaction that results in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder or specified stockholder approval requirements are met. In February 2005, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of one preferred share purchase right (a “Right”) for each outstanding share of our common stock payable upon the close of business on February 28, 2005 to the stockholders of record on that date. Each Right entitles the registered holder to purchase from us one one-hundredth (1/100th) of a share of our Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, (“Preferred Shares”) at a price of $60 per one one-hundredth of a Preferred Share, subject to adjustment. These Rights may make the cost of acquiring us more expensive and, therefore, make an acquisition more difficult. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 