ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Recent Economic Conditions and Governmental Response Efforts Our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by current conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. The global, U.S., North Carolina and South Carolina economies are experiencing significantly reduced business activity and consumer spending as a result of, among other factors, disruptions in the capital and credit markets. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. A sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse effects on our business: • a decrease in the demand for loans or other products and services offered by us; • a decrease in the value of our loans or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate; • a decrease to deposit balances due to overall reductions in the accounts of customers; • an impairment of certain intangible assets or investment securities; • a decreased ability to raise additional capital on terms acceptable to us or at all; or • an increase in the number of borrowers who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs and provision for credit losses, which would reduce our earnings. Until conditions improve, we expect our business, financial condition and results of operations to be adversely affected. Recent and future legislation and regulatory initiatives to address the current financial services market and general economic conditions may not achieve their intended objectives, including stabilizing the U.S. banking system or reviving the overall U.S. economy. Recent and future legislative and regulatory initiatives to address current financial services market and economic conditions, such as EESA, ARRA and the Dodd-Frank Act, may not achieve their intended objectives. In addition, Treasury and banking regulators have implemented, and likely will continue to implement, various other programs to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that any of the recent, or future, legislative and regulatory initiatives will have on the financial markets and the overall economy. Any failure of these initiatives to improve the financial markets and the economy, and a worsening of the current financial market and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. The Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law on July 21, 2010. While many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are aimed at financial institutions significantly larger than us, it includes several items that could significantly impact our business. These include, among others: · the creation of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (“BCFP”) authorized to promulgate and enforce consumer protection regulations relating to financial products; · the establishment of strengthened capital and prudential standards for banks and bank holding companies; · enhanced regulation of financial markets, including derivatives and securitization markets; and · a permanent increase of the previously implemented temporary increase of FDIC deposit insurance to $250,000. A number of provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act remain to be implemented through the rulemaking process at various regulatory agencies. We are unable to predict what the final form of these rules will be when implemented by the respective agencies, but management believes that certain aspects of the new legislation, including, without limitation, the additional cost of higher deposit insurance assessment rates, possible future special assessments by the FDIC, and the costs of compliance with disclosure and reporting requirements and examinations by the BCFP, could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 13 The BCFP may reshape the consumer financial laws through rulemaking and enforcement of the prohibitions against unfair, deceptive and abusive business practices, which may directly impact the business operations of depository institutions offering consumer financial products or services, including the Bank. The BCFP has broad rulemaking authority to administer and carry out the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act with respect to financial institutions that offer to consumers covered financial products and services. The BCFP has also been directed to write rules identifying practices or acts that are unfair, deceptive or abusive in connection with any transaction with a consumer for a consumer financial product or service, or the offering of a consumer financial product or service. The concept of what may be considered to be an “abusive” practice is new under the law. The full scope of the impact of this authority has not yet been determined as the implementing rules of the Dodd-Frank Act with respect to the BCFP have not yet been released. Moreover, the Bank will be supervised and examined by the BCFP for compliance with the BCFP’s regulations and policies. The costs and limitations related to this additional regulatory reporting regimen have yet to be fully determined, although they may be material and the limitations and restrictions that will be placed upon the Bank with respect to its consumer product offering and services will also likely produce significant, material effects on the Bank’s (and the Company’s) profitability. Additional requirements under our regulatory framework, especially those imposed under the Dodd-Frank Act, ARRA, EESA, or other legislation intended to strengthen the U.S. financial system, could adversely affect us. The President, Congress, the Federal Reserve, the Treasury, the FDIC and others have taken numerous actions to address the current liquidity and credit situation in the financial markets. These measures include actions to encourage loan restructuring and modification for homeowners, the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks, and coordinated efforts to address liquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. As part of EESA, the Treasury created the Capital Purchase Program, or CPP, which authorizes the Treasury to invest up to $250 billion in senior preferred stock of U.S. banks and savings associations or their holdings companies for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. On February 17, 2009, ARRA was enacted as a sweeping economic recovery package intended to stimulate the economy and provide for extensive infrastructure, energy, health and education needs. We participated in the CPP and sold $31.2 million in Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A (the “Series A Preferred Stock”), and a warrant to purchase 543,337 shares of our common stock to the Treasury. Future participation in this or similar programs may subject us to additional restrictions and regulation. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that EESA or its programs, including the CPP, and ARRA or its programs, will have on the national economy or financial markets. Further, federal and state regulatory authorities continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies and implementation of EESA, AARA, and the Dodd-Frank Act, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer or increasing the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products. While we cannot predict the regulatory changes that may be borne out of the current economic condition, and we cannot predict whether we will become subject to increased regulatory scrutiny by any of these regulatory agencies, any regulatory changes or scrutiny could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand our permissible activities, or affect the competitive balance among banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations and other institutions. We cannot predict whether additional legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it, or any regulations, would have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The limitations on incentive compensation contained in the ARRA may adversely affect our ability to retain our highest performing employees. In the case of a company such as BNC Bancorp that received CPP funds, the ARRA, and subsequent regulations issued by UST, contain restrictions on bonus and other incentive compensation payable to the company’s senior executive officers. As a consequence, we may be unable to create a compensation structure that permits us to retain our highest performing employees and attract new employees of a high caliber. If this were to occur, our businesses and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our participation in the CPP imposes restrictions and obligations on us that limit our ability to increase dividends, repurchase shares of our common stock and access the equity capital markets. On December 5, 2008, we issued and sold (i) 31,260 shares of Series A Preferred Stock and (ii) a warrant to purchase 543,337 shares of our common stock (“Warrant”) to the UST as part of its CPP. Prior to December 5, 2011, unless we have redeemed all of the Series A Preferred Stock or the UST has transferred all of the Series A Preferred Stock to a third party, the Securities Purchase Agreement pursuant to which such securities were sold, among other things, limits the payment of dividends on our common stock to a maximum quarterly dividend of $0.05 per share without prior regulatory approval, limits our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock (with certain exceptions, including the repurchase of our common stock to offset share dilution from equity-based compensation awards), and grants the holders of such securities certain registration rights which, in certain circumstances, impose lock-up periods during which we would be unable to issue equity securities. In addition, unless we are able to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock during the first five years, the dividends on this capital will increase substantially at that point, from 5% to 9%. Depending on market conditions at the time, this increase in dividends could significantly impact our liquidity. 14 The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Since mid-2007, the financial services industry as a whole, as well as the securities markets generally, have been materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. Financial institutions in particular have been subject to increased volatility and an overall loss in investor confidence. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, and other institutional clients. From time to time, we utilize derivative financial instruments, primarily to hedge our exposure to changes in interest rates, but also to hedge cash flow. By entering into these transactions and derivative instrument contracts, we expose ourselves to counterparty credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. When the fair value of a derivative contract is in an asset position, the counterparty has a liability to us, which creates credit risk for us. We attempt to minimize this risk by selecting counterparties with investment grade credit ratings, limiting our exposure to any single counterparty and regularly monitoring our market position with each counterparty. Nonetheless, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our businesses, financial condition or results of operations. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than two years. The volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments in the future. Recent insured depository institution failures, as well as deterioration in banking and economic conditions, have significantly increased the loss provisions of the FDIC, resulting in a decline in the designated reserve ratio of the DIF to historical lows. The FDIC recently increased the designated reserve ratio from 1.25 to 2.00. In addition, the deposit insurance limit on FDIC deposit insurance coverage generally has increased to $250,000, which may result in even larger losses to the DIF. These developments have caused an increase to our assessments, and the FDIC may be required to make additional increases to the assessment rates and levy additional special assessments on us. Higher assessments increase our non-interest expense. Since 2009, our assessment rates, which also include our assessment for participating in the FDIC’s TAGP have increased. Additionally, on May 22, 2009, the FDIC announced a final rule imposing a special 5.00 basis points emergency assessment as of June 30, 2009, payable September 30, 2009, based on assets minus Tier 1 Capital at June 30, 2009, but the amount of the assessment was capped at 10.00 basis points of domestic deposits. Finally, on November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a new rule requiring insured institutions to prepay on December 30, 2009, estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011, and 2012. We prepaid an assessment of $7.3 million, which incorporated a uniform increase effective January 1, 2011. 15 These higher FDIC assessment rates and special assessments have had and will continue to have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Our FDIC insurance related cost was $3.0 million and $2.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively, compared to $642,000 for the year ended December 31, 2008. We are unable to predict the impact in future periods, including whether and when additional special assessments will occur. Higher insurance premiums and assessments increase our costs and may limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. We also may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased level, because financial institution failures resulting from the depressed market conditions have depleted and may continue to deplete the deposit insurance fund and reduce its ratio of reserves to insured deposits. Risks Related to Our Business Failure to comply with the terms of the loss sharing agreements with the FDIC may result in significant losses. On April 9, 2010, the Bank acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Beach First from the FDIC in a FDIC-assisted transaction. Beach First was a full-service commercial bank headquartered in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina that operated seven branch locations in the coastal South Carolina region. The loans and other real estate owned acquired as part of the Purchase and Assumption Agreement, are covered by two loss share agreements between the FDIC and the Bank (one for single family residential mortgage loans and the other for all other loans and other real estate owned), which affords the Bank significant loss protection. Under the terms of the loss share agreements, the FDIC will absorb 80% of losses and share in 80% of loss recoveries. The term for the loss share agreement for single family residential mortgage loans is in effect for 10 years from the April 9, 2010 acquisition date and the loss share agreement for all other loans and other real estate owned is in effect for 5 years from the acquisition date. The loss recovery provisions are in effect for 10 years and 8 years, respectively, from the acquisition date. The Purchase Assumption Agreement and the related loss share agreements between the FDIC and the Bank have specific, detailed and extensive compliance, servicing, notification and reporting requirements, including certain restrictions on our change of control. The loss sharing agreements prohibit the assignment by the Bank of its rights under the loss sharing agreements and the sale or transfer of any subsidiary of the Bank holding title to assets covered under the loss sharing agreements without the prior written consent of the FDIC. An assignment would include (i) the merger or consolidation of the Bank with or into another bank, if we will own less than 66.66% of the equity of the resulting bank; (ii) our merger or consolidation with or into another company, if our shareholders will own less than 66.66% of the equity of the resulting company; (iii) the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Bank to another company or person; or (iv) a sale of shares by any one or more shareholders of the Company or the Bank that would effect a change in control of the Bank. The Bank’s rights under the loss sharing agreements will terminate if any assignment of the loss sharing agreements occurs without the prior written consent of the FDIC. Our failure to comply with the terms of the loss share agreements or to properly service the loans and bank owned real estate under the requirements of the loss share agreements may cause individual loans or large pools of loans to lose eligibility for loss share payments from the FDIC. This could result in material losses that are currently not anticipated. We may have difficulties integrating Beach First’s operations into our own or may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Our acquisition of Beach First involves the integration of certain operations that have previously operated independently of the Company. Successful integration of Beach First’s operations will depend primarily on our ability to consolidate Beach First’s operations, systems and procedures into those of ours to eliminate redundancies and costs. We may not be able to integrate the operations without encountering difficulties, including, without limitation: • the loss of key employees and customers; • possible inconsistencies in standards, control procedures and policies; and • unexpected problems with costs, operations, personnel, technology or credit. In addition, any enhanced earnings or cost savings that we expect to result from the acquisition, including by reducing costs, improving efficiencies, and cross-marketing, may not be fully realized or may take longer to be realized than expected. 16 We rely on dividends from the Bank for most of our revenue. The Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from the Bank. The Company receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends received from the Bank. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock, and interest and principal on our outstanding debt securities. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to the Company. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company, the Company may not be able to service debt, pay obligations, or pay dividends on its common stock. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Bank is exposed to risks in connection with the loans it makes. A significant source of risk for us and the Bank arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained by the Bank because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. The Bank has underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for loan losses, that it believes are appropriate to minimize this risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance and diversifying its loan portfolio. Such policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could adversely affect the Bank’s results of operations. If our nonperforming assets increase, our earnings will suffer. At December 31, 2010, our nonperforming assets (which consist of non-accruing loans, loans 90+ days delinquent, and foreclosed real estate assets) totaled $135.3 million, or 6.29% of total assets, which is an increase of $101.9 million over nonperforming assets at December 31, 2009. The majority of this increase was from the nonperforming assets that were acquired from our acquisition of Beach First. At December 31, 2008, our nonperforming assets were $18.3 million, or 1.17% of total assets. Our nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on nonaccrual loans or real estate owned. We must reserve for probable losses, which is established through a current period charge to the provision for loan losses as well as from time to time, as appropriate, the write down the value of properties in our other real estate owned portfolio to reflect changing market values. Additionally, there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets as well as carrying costs such as taxes, insurance and maintenance related to our other real estate owned. Further, the resolution of non-performing assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract them from more profitable activity. Finally, if our estimate for the recorded allowance for loan losses proves to be incorrect and our allowance is inadequate, we will have to increase the allowance accordingly. Our loan portfolio includes loans with a higher risk of loss. We originate commercial real estate loans, construction and development loans, consumer loans, and residential mortgage loans primarily within our market area. Commercial real estate, commercial, and construction and development loans tend to involve larger loan balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers and are most susceptible to a risk of loss during a downturn in the business cycle. These loans also have historically had greater credit risk than other loans for the following reasons: • Real Estate Loans. Repayment is dependent on income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. These loans also involve greater risk because they are generally not fully amortizing over a loan period, but rather have a balloon payment due at maturity. A borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or timely sell the underlying property. As of December 31, 2010, commercial and residential real estate loans comprised approximately 44.9% and 26.7%, respectively, of our total loan portfolio. • Commercial and Industrial Loans. Repayment is generally dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower’s business. In addition, the collateral securing the loans may depreciate over time, be difficult to appraise, be illiquid, or fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. As of December 31, 2010, commercial and industrial loans comprised approximately 9.1% of our total loan portfolio. • Construction and Development Loans. The risk of loss is largely dependent on our initial estimate of whether the property’s value at completion equals or exceeds the cost of property construction and the availability of take-out financing. During the construction phase, a number of factors can result in delays or cost overruns. If our estimate is inaccurate or if actual construction costs exceed estimates, the value of the property securing our loan may be insufficient to ensure full repayment when completed through a permanent loan, sale of the property, or by seizure of collateral. As of December 31, 2010, commercial and residential construction and development loans comprised approximately 17.6% of our total loan portfolio. 17 • Consumer Loans. Consumer loans (such as personal lines of credit) are collateralized, if at all, with assets that may not provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage, or loss. As of December 31, 2010, consumer loans comprised approximately 1.0% of our total loan portfolio. Our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient. All borrowers carry the potential to default and our remedies to recover (seizure and/or sale of collateral, legal actions, guarantees, etc.) may not fully satisfy money previously lent. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, which represents management’s best estimate of probable credit losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance for loan losses reflects management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political, and regulatory conditions; and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks using existing qualitative and quantitative information, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of additional loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. An increase in the allowance for loan losses results in a decrease in net income, and possibly risk-based capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may need additional capital resources in the future and these capital resources may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We may need to incur additional debt or equity financing in the future to make strategic acquisitions or investments, for future growth, to fund losses or additional provisions for loan losses in the future, or to maintain certain capital levels in accordance with banking regulations. Such financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Our ability to raise additional capital may also be restricted by the Loss Share Agreements we entered into with the FDIC if the capital raise would effect a change in control of the Bank. Further, in the event that we offer additional shares of our common stock in the future, our articles of incorporation do not provide shareholders with preemptive rights and such shares may be offered to investors other than our existing shareholders for prices at or below the then current market price of our common stock, all at the discretion of the Board. If we do sell additional shares of common stock to raise capital, the sale could reduce market price per share of common stock and dilute your ownership interest and such dilution could be substantial. Because we engage in lending secured by real estate and may be forced to foreclose on the collateral property and own the underlying real estate, we may be subject to the increased costs associated with the ownership of real property, which could result in reduced net income. Since we originate loans secured by real estate, we may have to foreclose on the collateral property to protect our investment and may thereafter own and operate such property, in which case we are exposed to the risks inherent in the ownership of real estate. The amount that we, as a mortgagee, may realize after a default is dependent upon factors outside of our control, including, but not limited to: • general or local economic conditions; • environmental cleanup liability; • neighborhood values; • interest rates; • real estate tax rates; • operating expenses of the mortgaged properties; • supply of and demand for rental units or properties; • ability to obtain and maintain adequate occupancy of the properties; 18 • zoning laws; • governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies; and • acts of God. Certain expenditures associated with the ownership of real estate, principally real estate taxes and maintenance costs, may adversely affect the income from the real estate. Therefore, the cost of operating real property may exceed the rental income earned from such property, and we may have to advance funds in order to protect our investment or we may be required to dispose of the real property at a loss. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, and other sources, could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could negatively impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of an economic downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated, adverse regulatory action against us, or our inability to attract and retain deposits. Our ability to borrow could be impaired by factors that are not specific to us or our region, such a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the unstable credit markets. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions, which could limit our revenue. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions through alternative methods that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks through the use of various electronic payment systems. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. We continue to hold and acquire a significant amount of other real estate, which has led to increased operating expenses and vulnerability to additional declines in real property values. We foreclose on and take title to the real estate serving as collateral for many of our loans as part of our business. Real estate owned by the Bank and not used in the ordinary course of its operations is referred to as “other real estate” or “ORE” property. At December 31, 2010, we had ORE with an aggregate book value of $39.7 million, compared to $14.3 million at December 31, 2009, an increase of $25.4 million. Of this increase, $15.8 million is covered under loss share agreements. Increased ORE balances have led to greater expenses as we incur costs to manage and dispose of the properties. We expect that our earnings will continue to be negatively affected by various expenses associated with ORE, including personnel costs, insurance and taxes, completion and repair costs, valuation adjustments and other expenses associated with property ownership, as well as by the funding costs associated with assets that are tied up in ORE. Any further decrease in real estate market prices may lead to additional ORE write-downs, with a corresponding expense in our statement of operations. We are in the process of improving our policies and procedures relating to the administration of both performing and non-performing loans, however, this process is not currently complete. The administration of loans is an important function in attempting to mitigate any future losses related to our non-performing assets. We are currently in the process of improving and centralizing our credit administration function. While we are making efforts to complete this process in a timely manner, we can give you no assurances that we will be able to successfully update and improve our credit administration policies and procedures. If we are unable to do so in a timely manner or at all, our loan losses could increase and this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of, or market for, our common stock. Loss of key personnel could adversely impact results. The success of the Bank has been and will continue to be greatly influenced by the ability to retain the services of existing senior management. The Bank has benefited from consistency within its senior management team, with its top five executives averaging over 16 years of service with the Bank. The Company has entered into employment contracts with each of these top management officials. Nevertheless, the unexpected loss of the services of any of the key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse impact on the business and financial results of the Bank. 19 Changes in interest rates affect profitability and assets. Changes in prevailing interest rates may hurt the Bank’s business. The Bank derives its income primarily from the difference or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. In general, the larger the spread, the more the Bank earns. When market rates of interest change, the interest the Bank receives on its assets and the interest the Bank pays on its liabilities will fluctuate. This can cause decreases in the “spread” and can adversely affect the Bank’s income. Changes in market interest rates could reduce the value of the Bank’s financial assets. Fixed-rate investments, mortgage-backed and related securities and mortgage loans generally decrease in value as interest rates rise. In addition, interest rates affect how much money the Bank lends. For example, when interest rates rise, the cost of borrowing increases and the loan originations tend to decrease. If the Bank is unsuccessful in managing the effects of changes in interest rates, the financial condition and results of operations could suffer. We may face increasing deposit-pricing pressures, which may, among other things, reduce our profitability. Checking and savings account balances and other forms of deposits can decrease when our deposit customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market or other non-depository investments, as providing superior expected returns or seek to spread their deposits over several banks to maximize FDIC insurance coverage. Furthermore, technology and other changes have made it more convenient for bank customers to transfer funds into alternative investments, including products offered by other financial institutions or non-bank service providers. Additional increases in short-term interest rates could increase transfers of deposits to higher yielding deposits. Efforts and initiatives we undertake to retain and increase deposits, including deposit pricing, can increase our costs. When bank customers move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments or into higher yielding deposits, or spread their accounts over several banks, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, thus increasing our funding costs. The Company and the Bank compete with much larger companies for some of the same business. The banking and financial services business in our market areas continues to be a competitive field and it is becoming more competitive as a result of: • changes in regulations; • changes in technology and product delivery systems; and • the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial services providers. We may not be able to compete effectively in our markets, and our results of operations could be adversely affected by the nature or pace of change in competition. We compete for loans, deposits and customers with various bank and nonbank financial services providers, many of which are much larger in total assets and capitalization, have greater access to capital markets and offer a broader array of financial services. Negative publicity could damage our reputation. Reputation risk, or the risk to our earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in our business. Negative public opinion could adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and expose us to adverse legal and regulatory consequences. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, and disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to that conduct. The Company is subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities. A significant portion of the Bank’s loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, the Bank may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, the Bank may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require the Bank to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit the Bank’s ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations of enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase the Bank’s exposure to environmental liability. Although the Bank has policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 20 Financial services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports, and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties, or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports, or other financial information could cause us to enter into unfavorable transactions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. Our accounting policies are fundamental to understanding our financial results and condition. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results. Some of our accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards or the interpretation of those standards that govern the preparation of our external financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how we report our results of operations and financial condition. We could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements in material amounts. Impairment of investment securities, goodwill, other intangible assets, or deferred tax assets could require charges to earnings, which could result in a negative impact on our results of operations. In assessing the impairment of investment securities, management considers the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuers, and the intent and ability of the Company to retain its investment in the issuer for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value in the near term. Under current accounting standards, goodwill and certain other intangible assets with indeterminate lives are no longer amortized but, instead, are assessed for impairment periodically or when impairment indicators are present. Assessment of goodwill and such other intangible assets could result in circumstances where the applicable intangible asset is deemed to be impaired for accounting purposes. Under such circumstances, the intangible asset’s impairment would be reflected as a charge to earnings in the period during which such impairment is identified. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. The impact of each of these impairment matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. Third party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and core application processing. While we have selected these third party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including as a result of their not providing us their services for any reason or their performing their services poorly, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise to conduct our business. Replacing these third party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption, or breach in security or operational integrity of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption, or security breach of our information systems, we cannot assure you that any such failures, interruptions, or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 21 Government regulations may prevent or impair the Company’s ability to pay dividends, engage in mergers or operate in other ways. Current and future legislation and the policies established by federal and state regulatory authorities will affect our operations. The Bank is subject to supervision and periodic examination by the FDIC and the Commissioner. The Company is subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve and the Commissioner. Banking regulations, designed primarily for the protection of depositors, may limit the growth and the return to the Company’s stockholders by restricting certain activities, such as: • the payment of dividends to our stockholders; • possible mergers with or acquisitions of or by other institutions; • our desired investments; • loans and interest rates on loans; • interest rates paid on our deposits; • the possible expansion of our branch offices; and • our ability to provide securities or trust services. The Bank also is subject to capitalization guidelines set forth in federal legislation, and could be subject to enforcement actions to the extent that it is found by regulatory examiners to be undercapitalized. The Company cannot predict what changes, if any, will be made to existing federal and state legislation and regulations or the effect that such changes may have on the Company’s future business and earnings prospects. The cost of compliance with regulatory requirements may adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute shareholder value. We regularly evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. As a result, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt, or equity securities may occur at any time. We seek merger or acquisition partners that are culturally similar, have experienced management, and possess either significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of scale, or expanded services. Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves potential adverse impact to our financial results and various other risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things: • difficulty in estimating the value of the target company; • payment of a premium over book and market values that may dilute our tangible book value and earnings per share in the short and long term; • potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company; • exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company; • there may be volatility in reported income as goodwill impairment losses could occur irregularly and in varying amounts; • difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company; • inability to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits; • potential disruption to our business; • potential diversion of our management’s time and attention; • the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company; and • potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our stock price can be volatile. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; • recommendations by securities analysts; 22 • operating results and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; • news reports relating to trends, concerns, and other issues in the financial services industry; • perceptions in the marketplace regarding us and/or our competitors; • new technology used or services offered by competitors; • significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors; and • changes in government regulations. Our trading volume has been low compared with larger national and regional banks. Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market. However, the trading volume of our common stock is relatively low when compared with more seasoned companies listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, NASDAQ Global Select Market, or other consolidated reporting systems or stock exchanges. Thus, the market in our common stock may be limited in scope relative to other larger companies. In addition, we cannot say with any certainty that a more active and liquid trading market for its common stock will develop. We have issued Series A Preferred Stock and subordinated debentures, and the Bank has issued subordinated debt securities, all of which rank senior to our common stock. We have issued 31,260 shares of Series A Preferred Stock. This series of preferred stock ranks senior to shares of the Series B Preferred Stock and the common stock. As a result, we must make dividend payments on our Series A Preferred Stock before any dividends can be paid on our Series B Preferred Stock or our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our Series B Preferred Stock or our common stock. If we do not remain current in the payment of dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock, no dividends may be paid on our Series B Preferred Stock or our common stock. In addition, we have issued $23.7 million in subordinated debentures in connection with its issuance of trust preferred securities, and the Bank has issued $8.0 million in subordinated debt securities. These debentures and debt securities also rank senior to our common stock. We have also issued Series B Preferred Stock, which carries liquidation rights senior to our common stock. We have issued 1,804,566 shares of Series B Preferred Stock to Aquiline. This series of preferred stock ranks junior, with regard to dividends, to the Series A Preferred Stock, and will receive such dividends and other distributions as declared and paid by us to all holders of common stock, on an as-converted basis. The Series B Preferred Stock should have the same priority, with regard to dividends, as our common stock. However, in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of affairs, after payment or provision for payment of our debts and other liabilities, holders of the Series B Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive, out of our assets after any payment required to be made to any holders of the Series A Preferred Stock and any other series of preferred stock that we issued from time to time unless so designated in such series of preferred stock, (i) $0.01 per share, (ii) the amount that a holder of shares of our common stock would be entitled to receive (based on each share of Series B Preferred Stock being converted into one share of common stock immediately prior to the liquidation, dissolution or winding up, assuming such shares of common stock were outstanding) and (iii) an amount equal to all declared and unpaid dividends for prior dividend periods, before any distribution shall be made to holders of the common stock or any other class of stock or series thereof ranking junior to the Series B Preferred Stock with respect to the distribution of assets. Our Series A Preferred Stock reduces net income available to holders of our common stock and earnings per common share, and the Warrant and Series B Preferred Stock may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. The dividends declared on our Series A Preferred Stock will reduce any net income available to holders of common stock and our earnings per common share. Our Series A Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of sale, merger, liquidation, dissolution or winding up of our company, and our Series B Preferred Stock will receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of our company. Additionally, the ownership interest of holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the Warrant is exercised or the Series B Preferred Stock is converted. Our common stock is not FDIC insured. The Company’s common stock is not a savings or deposit account or other obligation of any bank and is not insured by the FDIC or any other governmental agency and is subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of principal. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, holders of our common stock may lose some or all of their investment. 23 We may reduce or eliminate dividends on our common stock. Although we have historically paid a quarterly cash dividend to the holders of our common stock, holders of our common stock are not entitled to receive dividends. Downturns in the domestic and global economies could cause our board of directors to consider, among other things, reducing or eliminating of dividends paid on our common stock. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Because of our agreements with the UST as part of the CPP under the TARP, prior to December 5, 2011, or the date on which the UST’s senior preferred stock investment has been fully redeemed or transferred, if earlier, we may not pay quarterly dividends on our common stock greater than $0.05 per share without the UST’s consent. In addition, we may not pay dividends on our common stock unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods are fully paid on our outstanding preferred stock issued to the UST. Furthermore, as a bank holding company, our ability to pay dividends is subject to the guidelines of the Federal Reserve regarding capital adequacy and dividends before declaring or paying any dividends. Dividends also may be limited as a result of safety and soundness considerations. There may be future sales of additional common stock or preferred stock or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The Company is not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. The market value of the Company’s common stock could decline as a result of sales by us of a large number of shares of common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. There may be future issuances of additional subordinated debentures, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The Company may issue additional subordinated debentures in connection with the issuance of additional trust preferred securities. Such additional debentures would rank senior to the Company’s common stock. The market value of the Company’s common stock could decline as a result of future issuances or the perception that such issuances could occur. Our articles of incorporation, as amended, amended and restated bylaws, and certain banking laws may have an anti-takeover effect. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws, as amended, and federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our shareholders. The combination of these provisions may prohibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 