ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common stock involves a significant risk of loss. You should carefully read this entire report and should give particular attention to the following risk factors. You should recognize that other significant risks may arise in the future, which we cannot reasonably foresee at this time. Also, the risks that we now foresee might affect us to a greater or different degree than currently expected. There are a number of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by any of our forward-looking statements in this report. These factors include, without limitation, the risk factors listed below and other factors presented throughout this report and any other documents filed by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, and the Canadian securities regulators on SEDAR which can be accessed at www.sedar.com. Risks Related to Our Business We will need to raise substantial additional funds in the very near future to continue our operations. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents will only be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated capital requirements into the second quarter of 2010. The audit opinion contained in our Annual Report filed on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 included a notation related to the uncertainty of our ability to continue as a going concern. The current conditions in worldwide financial markets make fund-raising for small biotechnology companies like us very difficult. Although, we continue to pursue various strategic alternatives, including collaborations with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, if a strategic transaction or other source of further financial resources cannot be secured in the very near term, we might cease operations sooner than June 30, 2010. Our projections of our capital requirements into the second quarter of 2010 and beyond are subject to substantial uncertainty. Our current and future working capital requirements may change depending upon numerous factors, including: our ability to obtain additional financial resources; our ability to enter into collaborations that provide us with funding, up-front payments, milestones or other payments; results of our research and development activities; progress or lack of progress in our preclinical studies or clinical trials; unfavorable toxicology in our clinical programs; our drug substance requirements to support clinical programs; changes in the focus, direction, or costs of our research and development programs; employee related expense; the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing our patent claims; competitive and technological advances; the potential need to develop, acquire or license new technologies and products; our business development activities; new regulatory requirements implemented by regulatory authorities; the timing and outcome of any regulatory review process; and our commercialization activities, if any. Any such change could mean more capital than we had anticipated thereafter may be required. To finance our operations beyond the second quarter of 2010, or earlier if necessary, we will need to raise substantial additional funds through either the sale of additional equity, the issuance of debt, the establishment of collaborations that provide us with funding, the out-license or sale of certain aspects of our intellectual property portfolio, or from other sources. Given current market conditions, there is a serious risk that we might not be able to raise the necessary capital or such funding may not be available on favorable terms or at all. If we cannot obtain adequate funding in the very near term, we might be required to delay, scale back or eliminate certain research and development studies, consider business combinations or shut down some, or all of our operations. We have a history of significant losses and have had no revenues to date through the sale of our products. If we do not generate significant revenues, we will not achieve profitability. To date, we have been engaged primarily in research and development activities. We have had no revenues through the sale of our products, and we do not expect to have significant revenues until we are able to either sell our product candidates after obtaining applicable regulatory approvals or we establish collaborations that provide us with up-front payments, licensing fees, milestone payments, royalties or other revenue. We have incurred significant operating losses every year since our inception on September 3, 1996. We experienced net losses of approximately $3.0 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, $13.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, $13.4 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, and $16.4 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. At December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $101.0 million. We anticipate incurring substantial additional losses due to the need to spend substantial amounts on our current clinical trials, anticipated research and development activities, and general and administrative expenses, among other factors. We have not commercially introduced any product and our product candidates are in varying stages of development and testing. Our ability to attain profitability will depend upon our ability to fund and develop products that are safe, effective and commercially viable, to obtain regulatory approval for the manufacture and sale of our product candidates and to license or otherwise market our product candidates successfully. Any revenues generated from such products, assuming they are successfully developed, marketed and sold, may not be realized for a number of years. We may never achieve or sustain profitability on an ongoing basis. We have experienced significant management turnover and might not be able to recruit and retain the experienced personnel we need to compete in the drug discovery and development industry. Our future success depends on the personal efforts and abilities of the principal members of our senior management and scientific staff to provide strategic direction, develop business, manage our operations, and maintain a cohesive and stable work environment. Our Chief Executive Officer and General Counsel both left the Company in July 2009, as did a number of our directors. Also, our Chief Financial Officer left the Company in September 2009. We retained three new executives at that time, so their integration into our company has been and will continue to be critical to our success. Our executives and key personnel might not stay with the Company in light of our cash position and recent turnover in personnel, and the recent and any further departures could have a material adverse effect on our business. 7 If we do not maintain current or enter into new collaborations with other companies, we might not successfully develop our product candidates or generate sufficient revenues to expand our business. We currently rely on scientific and research and development collaboration arrangements with academic institutions and other third party collaborators, including our agreement for eniluracil with GSK and an exclusive worldwide license from OHSU for STS. The agreements with OHSU are terminable by either party in the event of an uncured breach by the other party. We may also terminate our agreement with OHSU at any time upon prior written notice of specified durations to the licensor. Termination of any of our collaborative arrangements could materially adversely affect our business. For example, if we are unable to make the appropriate payments under these agreements, the licensor might terminate the agreement which might have a material adverse impact. In addition, our collaborators might not perform as agreed in the future. Since we conduct a significant portion of our research and development through collaborations, our success may depend significantly on the performance of such collaborators, as well as any future collaborators. Collaborators might not commit sufficient resources to the research and development or commercialization of our product candidates. Economic or technological advantages of products being developed by others, or other factors could lead our collaborators to pursue other product candidates or technologies in preference to those being developed in collaboration with us. The commercial potential of, development stage of and projected resources required to develop our drug candidates will affect our ability to maintain current collaborations or establish new collaborators. There is a risk of dispute with respect to ownership of technology developed under any collaboration. Our management of any collaboration will require significant time and effort as well as an effective allocation of resources. We may not be able to simultaneously manage a large number of collaborations. Our product candidates are still in development. Due to the long, expensive and unpredictable drug development process, we might not ever successfully develop and commercialize any of our product candidates. In order to achieve profitable operations, we, alone or in collaboration with others, must successfully fund, develop, manufacture, introduce and market our product candidates. The time necessary to achieve market success for any individual product is long and uncertain. Our product candidates and research programs are in various stages of clinical development and require significant, time-consuming and costly research, testing and regulatory clearances. In developing our product candidates, we are subject to risks of failure that are inherent in the development of therapeutic products based on innovative technologies. For example, our product candidates might be ineffective, as eniluracil was shown to be in earlier clinical trials conducted by GSK, or may be overly toxic, or otherwise might fail to receive the necessary regulatory clearances. The results of preclinical and initial clinical trials are not necessarily predictive of future results. Our product candidates might not be economical to manufacture or market or might not achieve market acceptance. In addition, third parties might hold proprietary rights that preclude us from marketing our product candidates or others might market equivalent or superior products. We must conduct human clinical trials to assess our product candidates. If these trials are delayed or are unsuccessful, our development costs will significantly increase and our business prospects may suffer. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of our product candidates, we must demonstrate, through preclinical studies with animals and clinical trials with humans, that our product candidates are safe and effective for use in each target indication. To date, we have performed only limited clinical trials, and we have only done so with some of our product candidates. Much of our testing has been conducted on animals or on human cells in the laboratory, and the benefits of treatment seen in animals may not ultimately be obtained in human clinical trials. As a result, we will need to perform significant additional research and development and extensive preclinical and clinical testing prior to any application for commercial use. We may suffer significant setbacks in clinical trials, and the trials may demonstrate our product candidates to be unsafe or ineffective. We may also encounter problems in our clinical trials that will cause us to delay, suspend or terminate those clinical trials, which would increase our development costs and harm our financial results and commercial prospects. Identifying and qualifying patients to participate in clinical trials of our potential products is critically important to our success. The timing of our clinical trials depends on the speed at which we can recruit patients to participate in testing our product candidates. We have experienced delays in some of our clinical trials, including a significant delay in the initial activation and patient enrollment in our STS Phase III studies, and we may experience significant delays in the future. If patients are unwilling to participate in our trials because of competitive clinical trials for similar patient populations, perceived risk or any other reason, the timeline for recruiting patients, conducting trials and obtaining regulatory approval of potential products will be delayed. Other factors that may result in significant delays include obtaining regulatory or ethics review board approvals for proposed trials, reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical trial sites, and obtaining sufficient quantities of drug for use in the clinical trials. Such delays could result in the termination of the clinical trials altogether. Regulatory approval of our product candidates is time-consuming, expensive and uncertain, and could result in unexpectedly high expenses and delay our ability to sell our products. Development, manufacture and marketing of our products are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. This regulation could require us to incur significant unexpected expenses or delay or limit our ability to sell our product candidates, including eniluracil and STS, our product candidates that are farthest along in development and the regulatory process. Our clinical studies might be delayed or halted, or additional studies might be required, for various reasons, including: 8 · lack of funding; · the drug is not effective; · patients experience severe side effects during treatment; · appropriate patients do not enroll in the studies at the rate expected; · drug supplies are not sufficient to treat the patients in the studies; or · we decide to modify the drug during testing. If regulatory approval of any product is granted, it will be limited to those indications for which the product has been shown to be safe and effective, as demonstrated to the FDA’s satisfaction through clinical studies. Furthermore, approval might entail ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies. Even if regulatory approval is obtained, labeling and promotional activities are subject to continual scrutiny by the FDA and state regulatory agencies and, in some circumstances, the Federal Trade Commission. FDA enforcement policy prohibits the marketing of approved products for unapproved, or off-label, uses. These regulations and the FDA’s interpretation of them might impair our ability to effectively market our products. We and our third-party manufacturers are also required to comply with the applicable FDA current Good Manufacturing Practices, or GMP, regulations, which include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance, as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Further, manufacturing facilities must be approved by the FDA before they can be used to manufacture our products, and they are subject to additional FDA inspection. If we fail to comply with any of the FDA’s continuing regulations, we could be subject to reputational harm and sanctions, including: ● delays, warning letters and fines; ● product recalls or seizures and injunctions on sales; ● refusal of the FDA to review pending applications; ● total or partial suspension of production; ● withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications; and ● civil penalties and criminal prosecutions. In addition, identification of side effects after a drug is on the market or the occurrence of manufacturing problems could cause subsequent withdrawal of approval, reformulation of the drug, additional testing or changes in labeling of the product. We do not presently have the financial or human resources to complete Phase III trials for our lead product candidates. We do not presently have the financial or human resources internally to complete Phase III trials for any of our lead product candidates. We are currently developing STS in Phase III trials in collaboration with SIOPEL and COG. SIOPEL and COG may not conduct or complete the clinical trials with STS as currently planned. Such collaborators might not commit sufficient resources to the development of our product candidates, which may lead to significant delays. We have already experienced significant delays in the activation of the COG trial and subsequent accrual of patients into the COG and SIOPEL clinical trials. We may not be able to independently develop or conduct such trials ourselves. We continue to seek a licensing or funding partner for the further development of one or all of our product candidates. If a partner for one or all of these technologies is not found, we may not be able to further advance these products. If a partner is found, the financial terms that they propose may not be acceptable to us. We may expand our business through new acquisitions that could disrupt our business, harm our financial condition and dilute current stockholders’ ownership interests in our company. We may expand our products and capabilities, and therefore may seek mergers, acquisitions or other business arrangements to do so. Mergers and acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: · substantial cash expenditures; · potentially dilutive issuance of equity securities; · incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, some of which may be difficult or impossible to identify at the time of acquisition; · difficulties in assimilating the operations of the merged or acquired companies; · diverting our management’s attention away from other business concerns; · the additional expense of the transaction; · the generation of shareholder lawsuits; · risks of entering markets in which we have limited or no direct experience; and · the potential loss of our key employees or key employees of the acquired companies. 9 We cannot assure you that any merger or acquisition will result in short-term or long-term benefits to us. We may incorrectly judge the value or worth of an acquired company or business. In addition, our future success would depend in part on our ability to assimilate the companies and their personnel effectively. We might not be able to make the combination of our business with that of acquired businesses or companies work or be successful. Furthermore, the development or expansion of our business or any acquired business or companies may require a substantial capital investment by us. We may not have the necessary funds or they might not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. We may also seek to raise the necessary funds by selling shares of our stock, which could dilute current stockholder’s ownership interest in our company. If our licenses to proprietary technology owned by others are terminated or expire, we may suffer increased development costs and delays, and we may not be able to successfully develop our product candidates. The development of our drug candidates and the manufacture and sale of any products that we develop will involve the use of processes, products and information, some of the rights to which are owned by others. Our product candidates are licensed under agreements with GSK and OHSU. Although we have obtained licenses or rights with regard to the use of certain processes, products and information, the licenses or rights could be terminated or expire during critical periods and we may not be able to obtain, on favorable terms or at all, licenses or other rights that may be required. Some of these licenses provide for limited periods of exclusivity that may be extended only with the consent of the licensor, which may not be granted. If we are unable to adequately protect or maintain our patents and licenses related to our product candidates, or we infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others, we may not be able to successfully develop and commercialize our product candidates. The value of our technology will depend in part upon our ability, and those of our collaborators, to obtain patent protection or licenses to patents, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing on the rights of third parties. Although we have successfully pursued patent applications in the past, it is possible that: · some or all of our pending patent applications, or those we have licensed, may not be allowed; · proprietary products or processes that we develop in the future may not be patentable; · any issued patents that we own or license may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be successfully challenged by third parties; or · the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our ability to do business. It is not possible for us to be certain that we are the original and first creator of inventions encompassed by our pending patent applications or that we were the first to file patent applications for any such inventions. Further, any of our patents, once issued, may be declared by a court to be invalid or unenforceable. Eniluracil is currently protected under issued composition of matter and method patents that we exclusively licensed from GSK that expire in 2014 and 2015 (in combination with 5-FU). STS is currently protected by method of use patents that we exclusively licensed from OHSU that expire in Europe in 2021 and are currently pending in the United States. None of the above expiry dates take into consideration additional pending patent applications for eniluracil that, if issued, could provide additional patent protection nor possible patent term extensions or periods of data exclusivity that may be available upon marketing approval in the various countries worldwide. In addition, periods of marketing exclusivity for STS may also be possible in the United States under orphan drug status. We obtained Orphan Drug Designation in the United States for the use of STS in the prevention of platinum-induced ototoxicity in pediatric patients in 2004, if approved, will have seven years of exclusivity in the United States from the approval date. We may be required to obtain licenses under patents or other proprietary rights of third parties but the extent to which we may wish or need to do so is unknown. Any such licenses may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. If such licenses are obtained, it is likely they would be royalty bearing, which would reduce any future income. If licenses cannot be obtained on an economical basis, we could suffer delays in market introduction of planned products or their introduction could be prevented, in some cases after the expenditure of substantial funds. If we do not obtain such licenses, we would have to design around patents of third parties, potentially causing increased costs and delays in product development and introduction or precluding us from developing, manufacturing or selling our planned products, or our ability to develop, manufacture or sell products requiring such licenses could be foreclosed. Litigation may also be necessary to enforce or defend patents issued or licensed to us or our collaborators or to determine the scope and validity of a third party’s proprietary rights. We could incur substantial costs if litigation is required to defend ourselves in patent suits brought by third parties, if we participate in patent suits brought against or initiated by our collaborators, or if we initiate such suits. We might not prevail in any such action. An adverse outcome in litigation or an interference to determine priority or other proceeding in a court or patent office could subject us to significant liabilities, require disputed rights to be licensed from other parties or require us or our collaborators to cease using certain technology or products. Any of these events would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Much of our technological know-how that is not patentable may constitute trade secrets. Our confidentiality agreements might not provide for meaningful protection of our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure of information. In addition, others may independently develop or obtain similar technology and may be able to market competing products and obtain regulatory approval through a showing of equivalency to our product that has obtained regulatory approvals, without being required to undertake the same lengthy and expensive clinical studies that we would have already completed. 10 The vulnerability to off-label use or sale of our product candidates that are covered only by “method of use” patents may cause downward pricing pressure on these product candidates if they are ever commercialized and may make it more difficult for us to enter into collaboration or partnering arrangements for the development of these product candidates. Some of our product candidates, including STS, are currently only covered by “method of use” patents, which cover the use of certain compounds to treat specific conditions, and not by “composition of matter” patents, which would cover the chemical composition of the compound. Method of use patents provides less protection than composition of matter patents because of the possibility of off-label competition if other companies develop or market the compound for other uses. If another company markets a drug that we expect to market under the protection of a method of use patent, physicians may prescribe the other company’s drug for use in the indication for which we obtain approval and have a patent, even if the other company’s drug is not approved for such an indication. Off-label use and sales could limit our sales and exert pricing pressure on any products we develop covered only by method of use patents. Also, it may be more difficult to find a collaborator to license or support the development of our product candidates that are only covered by method of use patents. If our third party manufacturers breach or terminate their agreements with us, or if we are unable to secure arrangements with third party manufacturers on acceptable terms as needed in the future, we may suffer significant delays and additional costs. We have no experience manufacturing products and do not currently have the resources to manufacture any products that we may develop. We currently have agreements with contract manufacturers for clinical supplies of STS, eniluracil and 5-FU, including drug substance providers and drug product suppliers, but they might not perform as agreed in the future or may terminate our agreement with them before the end of the required term. Significant additional time and expense would be required to effect a transition to a new contract manufacturer. We plan to continue to rely on contract manufacturers for the foreseeable future to produce quantities of products and substances necessary for research and development, preclinical trials, human clinical trials and product commercialization, and to perform their obligations in a timely manner and in accordance with applicable government regulations. If we develop any products with commercial potential, we will need to develop the facilities to independently manufacture such products or secure arrangements with third parties to manufacture them. We may not be able to independently develop manufacturing capabilities or obtain favorable terms for the manufacture of our products. While we intend to contract for the commercial manufacture of our product candidates, we may not be able to identify and qualify contractors or obtain favorable contracting terms. We or our contract manufacturers may also fail to meet required manufacturing standards, which could result in delays or failures in product delivery, increased costs, injury or death to patients, product recalls or withdrawals and other problems that could significantly hurt our business. We intend to maintain a second source for back-up commercial manufacturing, wherever feasible. However, if a replacement to our future internal or contract manufacturers were required, the ability to establish second-sourcing or find a replacement manufacturer may be difficult due to the lead times generally required to manufacture drugs and the need for FDA compliance inspections and approvals of any replacement manufacturer, all of which factors could result in production delays and additional commercialization costs. Such lead times would vary based on the situation, but might be twelve months or longer. We lack the resources necessary to effectively market our product candidates, and we may need to rely on third parties over whom we have little or no control and who may not perform as expected. We do not have the necessary resources to market our product candidates. If we develop any products with commercial potential, we will either have to develop a marketing capability, including a sales force, which is difficult and expensive to implement successfully, or attempt to enter into a collaboration, merger, joint venture, license or other arrangement with third parties to provide a substantial portion of the financial and other resources needed to market such products. We may not be able to do so on acceptable terms, if at all. If we rely extensively on third parties to market our products, the commercial success of such products may be largely outside of our control. We conduct our business internationally and are subject to laws and regulations of several countries which may affect our ability to access regulatory agencies and may affect the enforceability and value of our licenses. We have conducted clinical trials in the United States, Canada, Europe and the Pacific Rim and intend to, or may, conduct future clinical trials in these and other jurisdictions. There can be no assurance that any sovereign government will not establish laws or regulations that will be deleterious to our interests. There is no assurance that we, as a Canadian corporation, will continue to have access to the regulatory agencies in any jurisdiction where we might want to conduct clinical trials or obtain regulatory approval, and we might not be able to enforce our license or patent rights in foreign jurisdictions. Foreign exchange controls may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, since such controls may limit our ability to flow funds into or out of a particular country to meet obligations under licenses, clinical trial agreements or other collaborations. Our cash invested in money market fund might be subject to loss. There has been significant deterioration and instability in the financial markets. Even though we believe we take a conservative approach to investing our funds, the volatility of the current financial markets exposes us to increased investment risk, including the risks that the value and liquidity of our money market investments could deteriorate significantly and the issuers of the investments we hold could be subject to credit rating downgrades. This might result in significant losses in our money market investments that could adversely impact our financial condition, which could be an immediate problem given our extremely limited financial resources. While we have not experienced any loss or write down of our money market investments in the past, we cannot guarantee that such losses will not occur in future periods. 11 We terminated a former executive and did not obtain a release and might be required to pay severance to this former executive in the future. We terminated an executive and did not pay any severance or obtain a release. While we believe we terminated the executive in accordance with the terms of the executive’s employment contract, and do not anticipate having to pay any material severance to the executive, if a lawsuit is brought, a court may disagree with our interpretation of the terms of the executive’s employment contract and we could be required to pay severance in the future Risks Related to Our Industry If we are unable to obtain applicable U.S. and/or foreign regulatory approvals, we will be unable to develop and commercialize our drug candidates. The preclinical studies and clinical trials of our product candidates, as well as the manufacturing, labeling, sale and distribution, export or import, marketing, advertising and promotion of our product candidates are subject to various regulatory frameworks in the United States, Canada and other countries. Any products that we develop must receive all relevant regulatory approvals and clearances before any marketing, sale or distribution. The regulatory process, which includes extensive preclinical studies and clinical testing to establish product safety and efficacy, can take many years and cost substantial amounts of money. As a result of the length of time, many challenges and costs associated with the drug development process, the historical rate of failures for drug candidates is extremely high. For example, prior development of our compound eniluracil by GSK was not successful. Varying interpretations of the data obtained from studies and tests could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval or clearance. Changes in regulatory policy could also cause delays or affect regulatory approval. Any regulatory delays may increase our development costs and negatively impact our competitiveness and prospects. It is possible that we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval of any of our drug candidates or approvals may take longer and cost more to obtain than expected. Regulatory approvals, if granted, may entail limitations on the uses for which any products we develop may be marketed, limiting the potential sales for any such products. The granting of product approvals can be withdrawn at any time, and manufacturers of approved products are subject to regular reviews, including for compliance with GMP. Failure to comply with any applicable regulatory requirement, which may change from time to time, can result in warning letters, fines, sanctions, penalties, recalling or seizing products, suspension of production, or even criminal prosecution. Future sales of our product candidates may suffer if they fail to achieve market acceptance. Even if our product candidates are successfully developed and achieve appropriate regulatory approval, they may not enjoy commercial acceptance or success. Product candidates may compete with a number of new and traditional drugs and therapies developed by major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Market acceptance is dependent on product candidates demonstrating clinical efficacy and safety, as well as demonstrating advantages over alternative treatment methods. In addition, market acceptance is influenced by government reimbursement policies and the ability of third parties to pay for such products. Physicians, patients, the medical community or patients may not accept or utilize any products we may develop. We face a strong competitive environment. Other companies may develop or commercialize more effective or cheaper products, which may reduce or eliminate the demand for our product candidates. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry, and in particular the field of cancer therapeutics where we are focused, is very competitive. Many companies and research organizations are engaged in the research, development and testing of new cancer therapies or means of increasing the effectiveness of existing therapies, including, among many others, Abbott Laboratories, Amgen, Antisoma, Adventrix, AstraZeneca, Bayer, Bristol-Myers Squibb, EntreMed, Genentech, Johnson & Johnson, Merck & Co., NeoPharm, Novartis, Onyx, OSI Pharmaceuticals, OXiGENE, Peregrine Pharmaceuticals, Pfizer, Roche, Sanofi-Aventis, and Taiho. Many of these companies have marketed drugs or are developing targeted cancer therapeutics which, depending upon the mechanism of action of such agents could thus be competitors. Many of our existing or potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do and may be better equipped to develop, manufacture and market products. In addition, many of these competitors have extensive experience with preclinical testing and human clinical trials and in obtaining regulatory approvals. Also, some of the smaller companies that compete with us have formed collaborative relationships with large, established companies to support the research, development, clinical trials and commercialization of any products that they may develop. Academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations may also conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for research, clinical development and marketing of products similar to those we seek to develop. These companies and institutions compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to our projects. We are likely to face competition in the areas of product efficacy and safety, ease of use and adaptability, as well as pricing, product acceptance, regulatory approvals and intellectual property. Competitors could develop more effective, safer and more affordable products than we do, and they may obtain patent protection or product commercialization before we do or even render our product candidates obsolete. The existence of competitive products, including products or treatments of which we are not aware, or products or treatments that may be developed in the future, may adversely affect the marketability of any products that we develop. 12 We may face product liability claims that could require us to defend costly lawsuits or incur substantial liabilities that could adversely impact our financial condition, receipt of regulatory approvals for our product candidates and our results of operation. The use of our product candidates in clinical trials and for commercial applications, if any, may expose us to liability claims in the event that such product candidates cause injury or death or result in other adverse effects. These claims could be made by health care institutions, contract laboratories, and subjects participating in our clinical studies, patients or others using our product candidates. In addition to liability claims, certain serious adverse events could require interruption, delay and/or discontinuation of a clinical trial and potentially prevent further development of the product candidate. We carry clinical trial insurance but the coverage may not be sufficient to protect us from legal expenses and liabilities we might incur. Litigation is very expensive, even if we are successful. In addition, our existing coverage may not be adequate if we further develop products, and future coverage may not be available in sufficient amounts or at reasonable cost. In addition, we might reduce the amount of this coverage due to our limited financial resources. Adverse liability claims may also harm our ability to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals. We use hazardous material and chemicals in our research and development, and our failure to comply with laws related to hazardous materials could materially harm us. Our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, such as flammable organic solvents, corrosive acids and corrosive bases. Accordingly, we are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of such materials and certain waste products. The risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result and any such liability could exceed our resources and may not be covered by our general liability insurance. We currently do not carry insurance specifically for hazardous materials claims. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations, which may change from time to time. Efforts to reduce product pricing and health care reimbursement and changes to government policies could negatively affect the commercialization of our product candidates. If any of our product candidates achieve regulatory approval, we may be materially adversely affected by the continuing efforts of governmental and third-party payors to contain or reduce health care costs. For example, if we succeed in bringing one or more products to market, such products may not be considered cost-effective and the availability of consumer reimbursement may not exist or be sufficient to allow the sale of such products on a competitive basis. The constraints on pricing and availability of competitive products may further limit our pricing and reimbursement policies as well as adversely impact market acceptance and commercialization for the products. In some foreign markets, the pricing or profitability of healthcare products is subject to government control. In recent years, federal, state, provincial and local officials and legislators have proposed or are proposing a variety of price-based reforms to the healthcare systems in the United States, Canada and elsewhere. Some proposals include measures that would limit or eliminate payments from third-party payors to the consumer for certain medical procedures and treatments or allow government control of pharmaceutical pricing. The adoption of any such proposals or reforms could adversely affect the commercial viability of our product candidates. Any significant changes in the healthcare system in the United States, Canada or abroad would likely have a substantial impact on the manner in which we conduct business and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise capital and the viability of product commercialization. New accounting or regulatory pronouncements may impact our future financial position and results of operations. There may be new accounting or regulatory pronouncements or rulings, which could have an impact on our future financial position and results of operations. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosures can create uncertainty and such uncertainty may lead to increased expenses and exposure to liabilities. Risks Related to Owning Our Common Shares Our common shares have been delisted from NYSE Alternext US LLC (formerly the American Stock Exchange), which may make it more difficult for stockholders to dispose of their shares. In December 2008, we received notice from the NYSE Alternext US, LLC (formerly the American Stock Exchange), or AMEX, that we were not in compliance with Section 1003(a)(ii) of its Company Guide, because our stockholders’ equity was below $6 million and we had incurred losses from continued operations and net losses in the five most recent fiscal years. On January 20, 2009, we voluntarily filed to delist our common stock from the AMEX and effective January 30, 2009, our common stock no longer traded on the AMEX. As a result, any trading of our common stock in the U.S. will need to be conducted in the over-the-counter market, or on the pink sheets. In addition, our common stock is also subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, which impose additional requirements on broker-dealers who effect trades. As a result, stockholders might have difficulty selling our common stock, particularly in the U.S. We may be unable to maintain the listing of our common stock on the TSX and that would make it more difficult for stockholders to dispose of their common stock. Our common stock is currently listed on the TSX. The TSX has rules for continued listing, including minimum market capitalization and other requirements, that we might not meet in the future, particularly if the price of our common stock does not increase or we are unable to raise additional capital to continue operations. In January 2009, our common stock was delisted from the AMEX as the Company did not meet the continued listing requirements of that exchange. 13 Delisting from the TSX would make it more difficult for stockholders to dispose of their common stock and more difficult to obtain accurate quotations on our common stock. This could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. There can be no assurances that a market maker will make a market in our common stock on the pink sheets or any other stock quotation system after delisting. Furthermore, securities quoted on the pink sheets generally have significantly less liquidity than securities traded on a national securities exchange, not only in the number of shares that can be bought and sold, but also through delays in the timing of transactions and lower market prices than might otherwise be obtained. As a result, stockholders might find it difficult to resell shares at prices quoted in the market or at all. Furthermore, because of the limited market and generally low volume of trading in our common stock, our common stock is more likely to be affected by broad market fluctuations, general market conditions, fluctuations in our operating results, changes in the market’s perception of our business, and announcements made by us, our competitors or parties with whom we have business relationships. Our ability to issue additional securities for financing or other purposes, or to otherwise arrange for any financing we may need in the future, may also be materially and adversely affected by the fact that our securities are not traded on a national securities exchange. The market price of our common shares is highly volatile and could cause the value of your investment to significantly decline. Historically, the market price of our common shares has been highly volatile and the market for our common shares has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, some of which are unrelated to our operating performance. From January 4, 2005 to December 31, 2009, the trading price of our stock fluctuated from a high closing price of CAD$2.09 per share to a low closing price of CAD$0.02 per share on the TSX. From November 12, 2004 until our delisting on January 30, 2009, the trading price of our stock fluctuated from a high closing price of $1.71 per share to a low closing price of $0.01 per share on the AMEX. Historically, our common shares have had a low trading volume, and may continue to have a low trading volume in the future. This low volume may contribute to the volatility of the market price of our common shares. It is likely that the market price of our common shares will continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. The market price of our stock may be significantly affected by many factors, including without limitation: · our immediate need to raise additional capital and the terms of any transaction we are able to enter into; · the economic crisis or other external factors generally or stock market trends in the pharmaceutical or biotechnology industries specifically; · announcements of licensing agreements, joint ventures, collaborations or other strategic alliances that involve our products or those of our competitors; · innovations related to our or our competitors’ products; · actual or potential clinical trial results related to our or our competitors’ products; · our financial results or those of our competitors; · reports of securities analysts regarding us or our competitors; · developments or disputes concerning our licensed or owned patents or those of our competitors; · developments with respect to the efficacy or safety or our products or those of our competitors; and · health care reforms and reimbursement policy changes nationally and internationally. Our existing principal stockholders hold a substantial number of our common shares and may be able to exercise influence in matters requiring approval of stockholders. At December 31, 2009, our current stockholders separately representing more than 5% ownership in our Company, collectively represented beneficial ownership of approximately 60% of our common shares. In particular, Southpoint Capital Advisors LP owns or exercises control over 41.5 million common shares, representing approximately 32% of the issued and outstanding common shares. In addition, Mr. Robert Butts, Co-Founder and Portfolio Manager of Southpoint Capital Advisors LP, serves as our Chairman of our Board of Directors. Southpoint Capital, our other 5% stockholders, and other insiders, acting alone or together, might be able to influence the outcomes of matters that require the approval of our stockholders, including but not limited to certain equity transactions (such as a financing), an acquisition or merger with another company, a sale of substantially all of our assets, the election and removal of directors, or amendments to our incorporating documents. These stockholders might make decisions that are adverse to your interests. The concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, which could adversely affect the market price of our common shares or deprive our other stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common shares as part of a sale of our company. We will need to raise substantial additional funds in the very near future to continue our operations, any equity offering will result in significant dilution to the ownership interests of shareholders and may result in dilution of the value of such interests and any debt offering will increase financial risk. In order to satisfy our anticipated capital requirements beyond the second quarter of 2010, and possibly earlier, we will need to raise substantial additional funds through either the sale of additional equity, the issue of securities convertible into equity, the issuance of debt, the establishment of collaborations that provide us with funding, the out-license or sale of certain aspects of our intellectual property portfolio, or from other sources. The most likely sources of financing that may be available to the Company in the near term are the sale of common shares and/or securities convertible into common shares and the issuance of debt. 14 The Company cannot predict the size of future issues of common shares or the issue of securities convertible into common shares or the effect that any such future issues and sales of common shares will have on the market price of our common shares. However, given the current market price of the Company’s common shares, any transaction involving the issue of common shares, or securities convertible into common shares, will result in immediate and substantial dilution to present and prospective holders of common shares. Alternatively, the Company may rely on debt financing and assume debt obligations that require it to make substantial interest and capital payments and to pledge some or all of its assets as collateral to secure such debt obligations. There are a large number of our common shares underlying outstanding warrants and options, and reserved for issuance under our stock option plan, that may be sold in the market, which could depress the market price of our stock and result in substantial dilution to the holders of our common shares. Sale or issuance of a substantial number of our common shares in the future could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. It may also impair our ability to obtain additional financing. At December 31, 2009, we had outstanding warrants to purchase approximately 41.1 million of our common shares and had a weighted average exercise price of $0.44. In addition, at December 31, 2009, there were approximately 15.8 million common shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options granted by us of which approximately 2.6 million were denominated in Canadian dollars and had a weighted average exercise price of CAD$2.19 per common share and approximately 13.2 million were denominated in U.S. dollars and had a weighted average exercise price of $0.55 per common share. We may also issue further warrants as part of any future financings as well as the additional 4.8 million options to acquire our common shares currently remaining available for issuance under our stock option plan. We have not paid any dividends since incorporation and do not anticipate declaring any dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, you will not be able to recoup your investment through the payment of dividends on your common shares and the lack of a dividend payable on our common shares might depress the value of your investment. We will use all available funds to finance the development of our product candidates and operation of our business. Our directors will determine if and when dividends should be declared and paid in the future based on our financial position at the relevant time, but since we have no present plans to pay dividends, you should not expect receipt of dividends either for your cash needs or to enhance the value of your common shares. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 