Item 1A. Risk Factors Economic conditions may cause a decline in business and consumer spending which could adversely affect the Company's business and financial performance. The Company's business is impacted by general economic conditions and their effect on consumer confidence and the level of consumer spending on the merchandise the Company offers. These economic factors include recessionary cycles, interest rates, currency exchange rates, economic growth, wage rates, unemployment levels, energy prices, availability of consumer credit, and consumer confidence, among others. The current economic conditions may continue to negatively affect consumer purchases of the Company's merchandise and adversely impact the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. The current economic conditions could also negatively impact the Company's merchandise vendors and their ability to deliver products and sustain profits and sufficient liquidity. To counteract their cash flow problems, the Company's merchandise vendors may require letters-of-credit or attempt to increase prices, pass through increased costs or seek some other form of 11 Table of Contents relief, which may adversely impact the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, economic conditions could negatively impact the Company's retail landlords and their ability to maintain their shopping centers in a first-class condition and otherwise perform their obligations, which could negatively impact traffic in the Company's stores leading to a decrease in sales and profitability. The raw materials used to manufacture the Company's products and its distribution and labor costs are subject to availability constraints and price volatility, which could result in increased costs. The raw materials used to manufacture the Company's products are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by high demand for petroleum-based synthetic fabrics, weather, supply conditions, government regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. The Company sources nearly all of its merchandise from approximately nine countries, with China, Vietnam and Indonesia representing approximately 91% of all purchases during fiscal year 2012. Any one of these countries could experience increased inflationary pressure, which could lead to increased costs for the Company. In addition, the Company's transportation and labor costs are subject to price volatility caused by the price of oil, supply of labor, governmental regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. Increases in demand for, or the price of, raw materials, distribution services and labor, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. If the Company is not able to respond to fashion trends in a timely manner, develop new merchandise or launch new product lines successfully, it may be left with unsold inventory, experience decreased profits or incur losses or suffer reputational harm to its brand image. The Company's success depends in part on management's ability to anticipate and respond to changing fashion tastes and consumer demands and to translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings. Customer tastes and fashion trends change rapidly. If the Company is unable to successfully identify or react to changing styles or trends and misjudges the market for its products or any new product lines, its sales may be lower, gross margins may be lower and the Company may be faced with a significant amount of unsold finished goods inventory. In response, the Company may be forced to increase its marketing promotions or price markdowns, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. The Company's brand image may also suffer if customers believe that it is no longer able to offer the latest fashions. Fluctuations in comparable store sales and results of operations could cause the price of the Company's common stock to decline substantially. The Company's results of operations for its individual stores have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to fluctuate in the future. Since the beginning of fiscal year 2004 through fiscal year 2012, the Company's quarterly comparable store sales have ranged from an increase of 14.1% to a decrease of 16.4%. The Company cannot ensure that it will be able to achieve consistency in its future sales and cannot ensure a high level of comparable store sales in the future. The Company's comparable store sales and results of operations are affected by a variety of factors, including but not limited to: •fashion trends; •mall traffic; •the Company's ability to effectively market to its customers and drive traffic to its stores; •calendar shifts of holiday or seasonal periods; 12 Table of Contents •the effectiveness of the Company's inventory management; •changes in the Company's merchandise mix; •the timing of promotional events; •weather conditions; •changes in general economic conditions and consumer spending patterns; and •actions of competitors or mall anchor tenants. If the Company's future comparable store sales fail to meet expectations, then the market price of the Company's common stock could decline substantially. For more information, you should refer to "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company's net sales, operating income and inventory levels fluctuate on a seasonal basis and decreases in sales or margins during the Company's peak seasons could have a disproportionate effect on its overall financial condition and results of operations. The Company's business experiences seasonal fluctuations in net sales and operating income, with a significant portion of its operating income typically realized during its fourth quarter. Any decrease in sales or margins during this period could have a disproportionate effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. You should refer to "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Quarterly Results and Seasonality" for more information. Seasonal fluctuations also affect the Company's inventory levels. The Company must carry a significant amount of inventory, especially before the holiday season selling period in the fourth quarter and prior to the Easter and Mother's Day holidays toward the end of the first quarter and beginning of the second quarter. If the Company is not successful in selling its inventory, it may have to write down the value of its inventory or sell it at significantly reduced prices or the Company may not be able to sell such inventory at all, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Since the Company relies significantly on foreign sources of production, it is at risk from a variety of factors that could leave it with inadequate or excess inventories, resulting in decreased profits or losses. The Company purchases apparel and accessories in foreign markets, with a significant portion coming from China, Vietnam and Indonesia. The Company does not have any long-term merchandise supply contracts and many of its imports are subject to existing or potential duties and tariffs. The Company competes with other companies for production facilities. The Company also faces a variety of other risks generally associated with doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, such as: •political or labor instability in countries where vendors are located; •political or military conflict involving the United States, which could cause a delay in the transportation of the Company's products and an increase in transportation costs; •heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods or could result in decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to lost sales and damage to the reputation of the Company's brand; 13 Table of Contents •natural disasters, disease epidemics and health related concerns, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas; •the migration and development of manufacturers, which can affect where the Company's products are or will be produced; •imposition of regulations relating to imports and the Company's ability to adjust in a timely manner to changes in trade regulations, which among other things, could limit the Company's ability to source products from countries that have the labor and expertise needed to manufacture its products on a cost-effective basis; •imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; and •currency volatility. Any of the foregoing factors, or a combination thereof, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. The Company's manufacturers may be unable to manufacture and deliver products in a timely manner or meet its quality standards, which could result in lost sales, cancellation charges or excessive markdowns. The Company purchases apparel and accessories from importers and directly from third-party manufacturers. Similar to most other specialty retailers, the Company has short selling seasons for much of its inventory. Factors outside of the Company's control, such as manufacturing or shipping delays or quality problems, could disrupt merchandise deliveries and result in lost sales, product recalls, cancellation charges or excessive markdowns. The Company's growth strategy includes the addition of a number of new New York & Company Outlet stores each year, while relocating and remodeling a portion of its existing store base annually. The Company may not be able to successfully implement this strategy on a timely basis or at all. In addition, the Company's growth strategy may strain its resources and cause the performance of its existing stores to suffer. The Company's growth strategy includes the addition of a number of new New York & Company Outlet stores each year, while relocating and remodeling a portion of its existing store base annually. The success of this strategy is dependent upon, among other things, the identification of suitable markets and sites for store locations, the negotiation of acceptable lease and renewal terms, including the renegotiation of existing rent concessions, the hiring, training and retention of competent sales personnel, and the effective management of inventory to meet the needs of new and existing stores on a timely basis. To the extent that the Company's new Outlet store openings are in existing markets, the Company may experience reduced net sales volumes in existing stores in those markets. The Company expects to fund its new stores through cash flow from operations and, if necessary, by borrowings under its revolving credit facility; however, if the Company experiences a decline in performance, the Company may slow or discontinue store openings. The Company may not be able to successfully execute any of these strategies on a timely basis. If the Company fails to successfully implement these strategies, its financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. In addition, continued consolidation in the commercial retail real estate market could affect the Company's ability to successfully negotiate favorable lease and renewal terms for its stores in the future. Should significant consolidation continue, a large proportion of the Company's store base could be concentrated with one or a few entities that could then be in a position to dictate unfavorable terms due to their significant negotiating leverage. If the Company is unable to negotiate favorable lease terms with these entities, this could affect its ability to profitably operate its stores, which could adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents A reduction in the volume of mall traffic could significantly reduce the Company's sales and leave it with unsold inventory, reducing the Company's profits or creating losses. Many of the Company's stores are located in shopping malls. Sales at these stores are derived, in part, from the volume of traffic in those malls. The Company's stores benefit from the ability of the mall's other tenants and other area attractions to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of its stores and the continuing popularity of malls as shopping destinations. Sales volume and mall traffic may be adversely affected by economic downturns in a particular area, competition from internet retailers, non-mall retailers and other malls where the Company does not have stores and the closing of other stores in the malls in which the Company's stores are located. A reduction in mall traffic as a result of these or any other factors could materially adversely affect the Company's business. Because of the Company's focus on keeping its inventory at the forefront of fashion trends, extreme and/or unseasonable weather conditions could have a disproportionately large effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations because it would be forced to mark down inventory. Extreme weather conditions in the areas in which the Company's stores are located could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, heavy snowfall or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period might make it difficult for the Company's customers to travel to its stores. The Company's business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. For example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could render a portion of the Company's inventory incompatible with those unseasonable conditions. These prolonged unseasonable weather conditions could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. If third parties who manage some aspects of the Company's business do not adequately perform their functions, the Company might experience disruptions in its business, leaving it with inadequate or excess inventories, among other adverse effects, resulting in decreased profits or losses. Limited Brands handles the distribution of the Company's merchandise through its distribution facility in Columbus, Ohio pursuant to a transition services agreement. The efficient operation of the Company's stores is dependent on its ability to distribute merchandise to locations throughout the United States in a timely manner. The Company depends on Limited Brands to receive, sort, pack and distribute substantially all of the Company's merchandise. As part of the transition services agreement, Limited Brands contracts with third-party transportation companies to deliver the Company's merchandise from foreign ports to their warehouses and to the Company's stores. Any failure by any of these third parties to respond adequately to the Company's warehousing and distribution needs would disrupt the Company's operations and negatively impact its profitability. Additional services are also provided by Limited Brands and its subsidiaries and affiliates pursuant to the transition services agreement. IPS assists the Company with its monitoring of country of origin and point of fabrication compliance for U.S. Customs. IPS also monitors compliance with the Company's Code of Business Conduct for suppliers, and labor standards and supply chain security standards. Any failure of Limited Brands or IPS to fulfill their obligations under the transition services agreement would disrupt the Company's operations and negatively impact its profitability. Under the transition services agreement, as amended on September 14, 2010, these services will terminate upon the earliest of the following: (i) 24 months from the date that Limited Brands notifies the Company that Limited Brands wishes to terminate the services, which notice shall be no earlier than February 1, 2014; (ii) 24 months from the date that the Company notifies Limited Brands that the Company wishes to terminate the services, which notice shall be no earlier than February 1, 2014; (iii) 60 days after the Company has given notice to Limited Brands that Limited Brands has failed to 15 Table of Contents perform any material obligations under the agreement and such failure shall be continuing; (iv) 30 days after Limited Brands has given notice to the Company that the Company has failed to perform any material obligations under the agreement and such failure shall be continuing; (v) within 75 days of receipt of the annual proposed changes to the agreement schedules which outline the cost methodologies and estimated costs of the services for the coming year, if such proposed changes would result in a significant increase in the amount of service costs that the Company would be obligated to pay; (vi) 15 months after a change of control of the Company, at the option of Limited Brands; or (vii) upon reasonable notice under the prevailing circumstances by the Company to Limited Brands after a disruption of services due to force majeure that cannot be remedied or restored within a reasonable period of time. The Company believes that these services are provided at a competitive price and the Company anticipates continuing to use Limited Brands for these services. The Company's failure to successfully replace the services could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and prospects. The Company uses a third party for its eCommerce operations, including order management, order fulfillment, customer care, and channel management services. A failure by the third party to adequately manage the Company's eCommerce operations may negatively impact the Company's profitability. The Company relies on third parties to monitor Code of Business Conduct for suppliers and labor standards compliance, supply chain security standards, and product quality requirements for its accessories business. Any failure by these third parties to adequately perform their functions may disrupt the Company's operations and negatively impact its reputation and its profitability. The Company may rely on third parties for the implementation and/or management of certain aspects of its information technology infrastructure. Failure by any of these third parties to implement and/or manage the Company's information technology infrastructure effectively could disrupt its operations and negatively impact its profitability. The Company relies on a third party to administer its proprietary credit card program. The inability of the administration company to effectively service the credit card program could materially limit credit availability for the Company's customers, which would negatively impact the Company's revenues and, consequently, its profitability. A work stoppage resulting from, among other things, a dispute over a collective bargaining agreement covering employees of a third party relied on by the Company or employees of the Company, may cause disruptions in the Company's business and negatively impact its profitability. The Company's marketing efforts rely upon the effective use of customer information. Restrictions on the availability or use of customer information could adversely affect the Company's marketing program, which could result in lost sales and a decrease in profits. The Company uses its customer database to market to its customers. Any limitations imposed on the use of such consumer data, whether imposed by federal or state governments or business partners, could have an adverse effect on the Company's future marketing activity. In addition, while the Company is compliant with Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards ("PCI DSS"), to the extent the Company's or its business partners' security procedures and protection of customer information prove to be insufficient or inadequate, the Company may become subject to litigation, which could expose it to liability and cause damage to its reputation or brand. 16 Table of Contents The Company relies on its manufacturers to use acceptable ethical business practices, and if they fail to do so, the New York & Company brand name could suffer reputational harm and the Company's sales could decline or its inventory supply could be interrupted. The Company requires its manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices, product quality and safety, and environmental compliance. Additionally, the Company imposes upon its business partners operating guidelines that require additional obligations in order to promote ethical business practices. The staff of third party inspection services companies, and the staff of the Company's non-exclusive buying agents and importers periodically visit and monitor the operations of the Company's manufacturers to determine compliance. However, the Company does not control its manufacturers or their labor and other business practices. If one of the Company's manufacturers violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the United States, the shipment of finished products to the Company could be interrupted, orders could be canceled, relationships could be terminated and the Company's reputation could be damaged. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the Company's revenues and, consequently, its results of operations. The Company is subject to numerous laws and regulations that could affect its operations. Changes in such laws and regulations could affect its profitability and impact the operation of its business through delayed shipments of its goods, increased costs, fines or penalties. The Company is subject to federal and state minimum wage laws, as well as various business customs, truth-in-advertising, truth-in-lending and other laws, including consumer protection regulations and zoning and occupancy ordinances that regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise, the use of the Company's proprietary credit cards and the operation of retail stores and warehouse facilities. Although the Company undertakes to monitor changes in these laws, if these laws change without the Company's knowledge, or are violated by the Company's employees, importers, buying agents, manufacturers or distributors, the Company could experience delays in shipments and receipt of goods or be subject to fines or other penalties under the controlling laws or regulations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in these laws or regulations could result in increased costs to the Company, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Government mandatory healthcare requirements could adversely affect the Company's profits. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the "Act") and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (the "Reconciliation Act") were signed into law. The Act, as modified by the Reconciliation Act, includes a large number of health care provisions to take effect over four years. The costs of these provisions are expected to be funded by a variety of taxes and fees. Some of the taxes and fees, as well as certain health care changes required by these provisions, are expected to result, directly or indirectly, in increased health care costs for the Company. This legislation as well as any future changes in healthcare legislation could increase expenses for the Company and have an adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company may be unable to compete favorably in the highly competitive retail industry, and if it loses customers to its competitors, its sales could decrease causing a decrease in profits or losses. The sale of apparel and accessories is highly competitive. Increased competition could result in price reductions, increased marketing expenditures and loss of market share, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents The Company competes for sales with a broad range of other retailers, including individual and chain fashion specialty stores and department stores. In addition to the traditional store-based retailers, the Company also competes with direct marketers that sell similar lines of merchandise and target customers through catalogs and eCommerce. Some of the Company's competitors may have greater financial, marketing and other resources available to them. In many cases, the Company's competitors sell their products in stores that are located in the same shopping malls as the Company's stores. In addition to competing for sales, the Company competes for favorable site locations and lease terms in shopping malls. The Company may be unable to protect its trademarks, which could diminish the value of its brand. The Company's trademarks are important to its success and competitive position. The Company's major trademarks are New York & Company, Lerner, Lerner New York, New York Style, City Stretch, City Style and NY&C and are protected in the United States and internationally. The Company engages in the following steps to protect and enforce its trademarks: file and prosecute trademark applications for registration in those countries where the marks are not yet registered; response to office actions and examining attorneys in those countries where the marks are not yet registered; maintenance of its trademark portfolio in the United States and foreign countries; filings of statements of use, renewal documents, assignments, change of name and address forms; policing of marks and third party infringements; initiation and defense of opposition and/or cancellation proceedings, including discovery and preparation of evidence; and litigation, including filing enforcement lawsuits against third party infringers. The Company is susceptible to others imitating the Company's products and infringing on the Company's intellectual property rights. Imitation or counterfeiting of the Company's products or other infringement of the Company's intellectual property rights could diminish the value of its brand or otherwise adversely affect its revenues. The actions the Company has taken to establish and protect its trademarks may not be adequate to prevent imitation of its products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate its trademarks or block sales of its products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. In addition, others may assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of the Company or in marks that are similar to the Company's or marks that the Company licenses and/or markets and the Company may not be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to its satisfaction. In some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to the Company's marks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar marks. Failure to protect the Company's trademarks could result in a material adverse effect on the Company's business. The Company relies on its information technology infrastructure, which includes third party and internally developed software, and purchased or leased hardware that support the Company's information technology and various business processes. The Company's business, reputation and brand image could suffer if its infrastructure fails to perform as intended. The Company relies on purchased or leased hardware and software licensed from third parties or internally developed in order to manage its business. The Company's ability to maintain and upgrade its information technology infrastructure is critical to the success of its business and the implementation of its omni-channel retail strategy beginning in fiscal year 2013. This hardware and software may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Any disruptions to the Company's infrastructure or loss of the right to use any of this hardware or software could affect the Company's operations, which could negatively affect the Company's business until corrected or until equivalent technology is either developed by the Company or, if available, is identified, obtained and integrated. In addition, the software underlying the Company's operations can contain undetected errors. The 18 Table of Contents Company may be forced to modify its operations until such problems are corrected and, in some cases, may need to implement enhancements to correct errors that it does not detect. Problems with the software underlying the Company's operations could result in loss of revenue, unexpected expenses and capital costs, diversion of resources, loss of market share and damage to the Company's reputation which could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company and third parties that manage portions of the Company's secure data are subject to cybersecurity risks and incidents. The Company's business involves the storage and transmission of customers' personal information, shopping preferences and credit card information, in addition to employee information and the Company's financial and strategic data. The protection of the Company's customer, employee and Company data is vitally important to the Company. While the Company has implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, any failure of these measures and any failure of third parties that assist the Company in managing its secure data could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. In conjunction with the implementation of the Company's omni-channel retail strategy in fiscal year 2013, the Company is embarking upon several new initiatives, including, among others, the upgrade of its eCommerce store, the implementation of channel planning capabilities using its JDA Enterprise system, and the implementation of TradeStone's Lifecycle Management solutions, which will be used to manage the Company's product lifecycle from design concept to the delivery of finished product in its stores. The Company's omni-channel retail strategy and these related systems initiatives are complex and require managerial and financial expertise to implement successfully. If the Company is unable to successfully implement these initiatives or if its customers are not provided with the intended benefits, the Company's financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Because the Company's brand is associated with all of its New York & Company merchandise in addition to its stores, the Company's success depends heavily on the value associated with its brand. The New York & Company name is integral to the Company's existing business, as well as to the implementation of its strategy for growing and expanding its business. The New York & Company brand could be adversely affected if the Company's public image or reputation were to be tarnished, which could result in a material adverse effect on the Company's business. If the value associated with the Company's brand were to diminish, the Company's sales could decrease, causing lower profits or losses. Risks associated with the Company's eCommerce store The Company operates an on-line store at www.nyandcompany.com to sell its merchandise. The Company's eCommerce operations are subject to numerous risks, including unanticipated operating problems, reliance on third-party computer hardware and software providers, system failures, cybersecurity breaches and the need to invest in additional computer systems. The eCommerce operations also involve other risks that could have an impact on the Company's results of operations, including but not limited to diversion of sales from the Company's other stores, rapid technological change, liability for on-line content, credit card fraud and risks related to the failure of the computer systems that operate the website and its related support systems. If the Company is unable to successfully address and respond to these risks, eCommerce revenues could be lost, costs could increase, and the Company's reputation may be damaged. 19 Table of Contents The covenants in the Company's credit facility impose restrictions that may limit its operating and financial flexibility. The Company's credit facility contains a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit its ability to: •incur additional indebtedness; •declare dividends, make distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock, including the Company's common stock, or to make certain other restricted payments or investments; •sell assets, including capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; •agree to payment restrictions affecting the Company's restricted subsidiaries; •consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the Company's assets; •incur liens; •alter the nature of the Company's business; •enter into sale/leaseback transactions; •conduct transactions with affiliates; or •designate the Company's subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. In addition, the Company's credit facility includes other and more restrictive covenants and prohibits it from prepaying its other indebtedness while indebtedness under its credit facility is outstanding. The agreement governing the Company's credit facility also requires it to achieve specified financial and operating results and maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. The Company's ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond the Company's control. The restrictions contained in the agreement governing the Company's credit facility could: •limit the Company's ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet capital needs or otherwise restrict its activities or business plans; and •adversely affect the Company's ability to finance its operations, strategic acquisitions, investments or other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in the Company's interest. A breach of any of these restrictive covenants or the Company's inability to comply with the required financial ratios could result in a default under the agreement governing its credit facility. If a default occurs, the lender under the credit facility may elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. The lender also has the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments the lender has to provide further borrowings. If the Company is unable to repay outstanding borrowings when due, the lender under the credit facility also has the right to proceed against the collateral, including the Company's available cash, granted to the lender to secure the indebtedness. The Company may lose key personnel. The Company believes that it has benefited from the leadership and experience of its Chief Executive Officer, Gregory J. Scott, and its other key executives. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on the business and the prospects of the Company. Competition for key personnel in the retail industry is intense and the Company's future success will depend upon its ability to retain, recruit and train qualified personnel. 20 Table of Contents The Company is a "controlled company," and the interests in its business of its controlling stockholders may be different from yours. Pursuant to a stockholders agreement among certain stockholders of the Company, Irving Place Capital (formerly known as Bear Stearns Merchant Banking) is able to, subject to applicable law, designate a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company and control actions to be taken by the Company and its Board of Directors, including amendments to the Company's restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and approval of significant corporate transactions, including mergers and sales of substantially all of the Company's assets. The directors so elected will have the authority, subject to the terms of the Company's indebtedness and the rules and regulations of the New York Stock Exchange, to issue additional stock, implement stock repurchase programs, declare dividends and make other decisions. Because Irving Place Capital owns more than 50% of the voting power of the Company, the Company is considered a "controlled company" for the purposes of the New York Stock Exchange listing requirements. As such, the Company is permitted to opt out of the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance requirements that its Board of Directors, its Compensation Committee and its Nomination and Governance Committee meet the standard of independence established by those corporate governance requirements. As a result, the Company's Board of Directors and those committees may have more directors who do not meet the New York Stock Exchange independence standards than they would if those independence standards were to apply. The New York Stock Exchange independence standards are intended to ensure that directors who meet the independence standard are free of any conflicting interest that could influence their actions as directors. Two of the Company's directors are employees of Irving Place Capital, and one of the Company's directors is a senior advisor to Irving Place Capital. It is possible that the interests of Irving Place Capital or that of an entity that controls Irving Place Capital may in some circumstances conflict with the Company's interests and the interests of its other stockholders. Provisions in the Company's restated certificate of incorporation and Delaware law may delay or prevent the Company's acquisition by a third party. The Company's restated certificate of incorporation contains a "blank check" preferred stock provision. Blank check preferred stock enables the Company's Board of Directors, without stockholders' approval, to designate and issue additional series of preferred stock with such dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights, including the right to issue convertible securities with no limitation on conversion, as the Company's Board of Directors may determine, including rights to dividends and proceeds in a liquidation that are senior to the common stock. These provisions may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire a majority of the Company's outstanding voting common stock. The Company is also subject to certain provisions of Delaware law which could delay, deter or prevent the Company from entering into a merger, acquisition, tender offer, proxy contest or other transaction that might otherwise result in the Company's stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for their stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 