Risk Factors Relating to Recent Economic Conditions and Governmental Response Efforts The recent decline in economic conditions and disruptions to financial markets may not improve for the foreseeable future, which could cause the Company to suffer continuing operating losses, adversely effect its liquidity position, erode its capital base, or create other business problems. The global and U.S. economies, and the economies of the local communities in which we operate, experienced a rapid decline in 2008. The financial markets and the financial services industry in particular suffered unprecedented disruption, causing many major institutions to fail or require government intervention to avoid failure. These conditions were largely the result of the erosion of the U.S. and global credit markets, including a significant and rapid deterioration of the mortgage lending and related real estate markets. As a consequence of the difficult economic environment, we experienced losses, resulting primarily from significant provisions for loan losses and substantial write-downs of our investment securities and goodwill. Although the Company continued to grow net revenues (sum of net interest income and noninterest income, excluding securities impairment charges and net mark-to-market gains) and customer funds (sum of deposits and customer repurchase agreements) in 2008, the rate of growth in these areas declined compared to prior years. There can be no assurance that the economic conditions that have adversely affected the financial services industry, and the capital, credit and real estate markets generally, will improve in the near term, in which case the Company could continue to experience significant losses and write-downs of assets, and could face capital and liquidity constraints or other business challenges. We cannot predict the effect of recent legislative and regulatory initiatives. The United States, state and foreign governments have taken or are considering extraordinary actions in an attempt to deal with the worldwide financial crisis and the severe decline in the global economy. To the extent adopted, many of these actions have been in effect for only a limited time, and have produced 29 Table of Contents limited or no relief to the capital, credit and real estate markets. There is no assurance that these actions or other actions under consideration will ultimately be successful. In the United States, the federal government has adopted the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (enacted on October 3, 2008) and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (enacted on February 17, 2009). With authority granted under these laws, the Treasury has proposed a financial stability plan that is intended to: • provide for the government to invest additional capital into banks and otherwise facilitate bank capital formation; • increase the limits on federal deposit insurance; and • provide for various forms of economic stimulus, including to assist homeowners restructure and lower mortgage payments on qualifying loans. See “Supervision and Regulation — Recent Regulatory Initiatives” for further information. In many cases, full implementation of the laws will require the adoption of regulations and program parameters. Other laws, regulations, and programs at the federal, state and even local levels are under consideration that address the economic climate and/or the financial services industry. The full effect of these initiatives cannot be predicted. Compliance with such initiatives may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Also, participation in specific programs may subject us to additional restrictions. In addition, we are required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. There can be no assurance that these initiatives will improve economic conditions generally or the financial markets or financial services industry in particular. The failure of EESA, ARRA and the financial stability plan to stabilize the financial markets could materially adversely affect our ability to access the capital and credit markets, our business, financial condition, results of operations and the market price for our common stock. Participation in the Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program may result in dilution of common stockholders. The U.S. government has taken action to restore liquidity and stability to financial and credit markets, including the enactment of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and TARP. As part of TARP, the Treasury implemented a program to purchase senior preferred stock from qualifying financial institutions, including the Company. On November 21, 2008, we issued preferred securities and a warrant to purchase our common stock to the Treasury. Prior to November 21, 2011, unless we have redeemed the preferred securities or the Treasury has transferred the securities to a third party, the Treasury’s consent will be required for us to pay a common stock dividend or repurchase our common stock, other than in connection with benefit plans consistent with past practice. Under the anti-dilution provisions included in the terms of the Treasury’s investment, the per share exercise price of the warrant and the number of shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrant will be adjusted upon certain issuances of our common stock at or below a specified price relative to the initial exercise price. The exercise of the common stock purchase warrant could result in material dilution to existing common stockholders. The soundness of other financial institutions with which we do business could adversely affect us. The financial services industry and the securities markets have been materially adversely affected by significant declines in values of almost all asset classes and by extreme lack of liquidity in the capital and credit markets. Financial institutions specifically have been subject to increased volatility and an overall loss in investor confidence. Financial institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, investment or other relationships. We routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry such as commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks and other institutional clients for a range of transactions including loan participations, derivatives and hedging transactions. In addition, we invest in 30 Table of Contents securities or loans originated or issued by financial institutions or supported by the loans they originate. Many of these transactions expose us to credit or investment risk in the event of default by our counterparty. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated if the collateral we hold cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or other exposure to us. We have taken significant impairments or write-downs in our securities portfolio and have suffered periodic gains or losses on other investments under mark to market accounting treatment. We could incur additional losses to our securities portfolio in the future as a result of these issues. These types of losses may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. We may need to raise additional capital in the future and such capital may not be available when needed or at all. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance. The ongoing liquidity crisis and the loss of confidence in financial institutions may increase our cost of funding and limit our access to some of our customary sources of capital, including, but not limited to, inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the discount window of the Federal Reserve. We cannot assure you that such capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, depositors of subsidiary banks or counterparties participating in the capital markets, or a downgrade of our debt rating, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a materially adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. The limitations on bonuses, retention awards and incentive compensation contained in ARRA may adversely affect our ability to retain our highest performing employees. For so long as any equity or debt securities that were issued to the Treasury under TARP remain outstanding, ARRA restricts bonuses, retention awards and other incentive compensation payable to an institution’s five senior executive officers and the next 20 highest paid employees. Depending upon the final regulations issued under ARRA, it is possible that the Company may be unable to create a compensation structure that permits us to retain our highest performing employees or recruit additional employees, especially if we are competing against institutions that are not subject to the same restrictions. If this were to occur, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Market and Business Our current primary market area is substantially dependent on gaming and tourism revenue, and the downturn in the gaming and tourism industries has hurt our business and our prospects. Our business is currently concentrated in the Las Vegas metropolitan area. The economy of the Las Vegas metropolitan area is unique in the United States for its level of dependence on services and industries related to gaming and tourism. Although we have no substantial customer relationships in the gaming and tourism industries, the downturn in the Las Vegas economy has adversely affected our customers, and has resulted in an increase in loan delinquencies and foreclosures, a reduction in the demand for some of our products and services, and a reduction of the value of our collateral for loans, which has adversely affected our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Any event or state of affairs that negatively impacts the gaming or tourism industry adversely impacts the Las Vegas economy. Gaming and tourism revenue (whether or not such tourism is directly related to gaming) is particularly vulnerable to fluctuations in the economy. Virtually any development or event that dissuades travel or spending related to gaming and tourism, whether inside or outside of Las Vegas, adversely affects the Las Vegas economy. In this regard, the Las Vegas economy is more susceptible than the economies of other cities to such issues as higher gasoline and other fuel prices, increased airfares, unemployment levels, recession, rising interest rates, and other economic conditions, whether domestic or foreign. Gaming and tourism are also susceptible to certain political conditions or events, such as military 31 Table of Contents hostilities and acts of terrorism, whether domestic or foreign. In addition, Las Vegas competes with other areas of the country, and other parts of the world, for gaming revenue, and it is possible that the expansion of gaming operations in other states, such as California, and other countries, as a result of changes in laws or otherwise, could significantly reduce gaming revenue in the Las Vegas area. We are highly dependent on real estate and events that negatively impact the real estate market hurt our business. We are located in areas in which economic growth is largely dependent on the real estate market, and a significant portion of our loan portfolio is dependent on real estate. As of December 31, 2008, real estate related loans accounted for approximately 77.3% of total loans. Real estate values have been declining in our markets, in some cases in a material and even dramatic fashion, which affects collateral values and has resulted in increased provisions for loan losses. The slowdown in real estate activity in the markets we serve has also caused a decline in our deposit growth and negatively impacted our financial condition. As an example, title company deposits comprised 8.3% of our total noninterest bearing deposits as of December 31, 2008, down from 14.3% as of December 31, 2007. We expect the weakness in these portions of our loan portfolio to continue well into 2009. Accordingly, it is anticipated that our nonperforming asset and charge-off levels will remain elevated. Further, the effects of recent mortgage market challenges, combined with the ongoing decrease in residential real estate market prices and demand, could result in further price reductions in home values, adversely affecting the value of collateral securing the residential real estate and construction loans that we hold, as well as loan originations and gains on sale of real estate and construction loans. A further decline in real estate activity would likely cause a further decline in asset and deposit growth and further negatively impact our financial condition. Our high concentration of commercial real estate, construction and land development and commercial, industrial loans expose us to increased lending risks. As of December 31, 2008, the composition of our loan portfolio was as follows: • commercial real estate loans of $1.8 billion, or 42.9% of total loans; • construction and land development loans of $820.9 million, or 20.0% of total loans; • commercial and industrial loans of $860.3 million, or 21.0% of total loans; • residential real estate loans of $589.2 million, or 14.4% of total loans; and • consumer loans of $71.1 million, or 1.7% of total loans. Commercial real estate, construction and land development and commercial and industrial loans, which comprised 83.9% of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2008, expose us to a greater risk of loss than our residential real estate and consumer loans, which comprised 16.1% of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2008. Commercial real estate and land development loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential loans. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one commercial loan or one credit relationship exposes us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to one residential mortgage loan. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for estimated credit losses based on a number of factors. We believe that our allowance for credit losses is adequate. However, if our assumptions or judgments are wrong, our allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover our actual credit losses. We may have to increase our allowance in the future in response to the request of one of our primary banking regulators, to adjust for changing conditions and assumptions, or as a result of any deterioration in the quality of our loan portfolio. The actual amount of future provisions for credit losses cannot be determined at this time and may vary from the amounts of past provisions. 32 Table of Contents Our financial instruments expose the Company to certain market risks and may increase the volatility of reported earnings. Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, and SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities—including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115. In connection with this adoption, the Company elected to record selected financial instruments, including investment securities, junior subordinated debt and other borrowings, at fair value. The Company also enters into interest rate swaps and other hedging transactions, which are also recorded at fair value. For those financial instruments we elected to carry at fair value, SFAS No. 159 requires us to recognize, in earnings, changes in the fair value of such instruments. Therefore, any increases or decreases in the fair value of the financial instruments that we carry at fair value have a corresponding impact on reported earnings. Fair value can be affected by a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including our credit position, interest rate volatility, volatility in capital markets and other economic factors. Accordingly, our earnings are subject to mark-to-market risk and the application of fair value accounting may cause our earnings to be more volatile than would be suggested by our underlying performance. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we had net mark-to-market gains of approximately $10.6 million, offset by securities impairment charges of approximately $156.8 million, as compared to net mark-to-market gains of approximately $0.6 million and securities impairment charges of $2.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. Included in our securities impairment charges for the year ended December 31, 2008 is the write down of our entire collateralized debt obligation portfolio to approximately $1.2 million, or 1.0% of its aggregate $121.3 million par value. We may be required to write down assets or incur additional securities impairment charges in future periods, which would have a direct and negative impact on earnings. If we lost a significant portion of our low-cost deposits, it would negatively impact our liquidity and profitability. Our profitability depends in part on our success in attracting and retaining a stable base of low-cost deposits. As of December 31, 2008, 27.7% of our deposit base was comprised of noninterest bearing deposits, of which 8.3% consisted of title company deposits (as compared to 14.3% as of December 31, 2007); 79.6% consisted of other business deposits, which consist primarily of operating accounts for businesses; and 6.1% consisted of consumer deposits. While we generally do not believe these core deposits are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations, the competition for these deposits in our markets is strong and customers are increasingly seeking investments that are safe, including the purchase of U.S. Treasury securities and other government-guaranteed obligations, as well as the establishment of accounts at the largest, most-well capitalized banks. If we were to lose a significant portion of our low-cost deposits, it would negatively impact our liquidity and profitability. We are increasingly reliant on borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank and the Federal Reserve, and there can be no assurance these programs will continue in their current manner. As pressure on retaining and obtaining deposits has increased, the Company has become increasingly reliant on borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco and the Federal Reserve. The amount loaned to the Company is generally dependent on the value of the collateral pledged. These lenders could reduce the percentages loaned against various collateral categories, could eliminate certain types of collateral and could otherwise modify or even terminate its loan programs. In this regard, the FHLB of San Francisco did not pay a dividend for the fourth quarter of 2008, did not purchase excess capital stock on January 31, 2009, and may be less than adequately capitalized as of December 31, 2008. Any change or termination would have an adverse affect on the Company’s liquidity and profitability. A decline in our stock price or expected future cash flows, or a material adverse change in our results of operations or prospects, could result in further impairment of our goodwill. A further significant and sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization, a significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate or slower growth rates could result in additional impairment of our goodwill. If we were to conclude that a future write-down of our goodwill is necessary, then we would record the appropriate charge, which could be materially 33 Table of Contents adverse to our operating results and financial position. For further discussion, see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets. The major rating agencies regularly evaluate us and their ratings of our long-term debt based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. In light of the difficulties in the financial services industry and the housing and financial markets, there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to credit downgrades. Credit ratings measure a company’s ability to repay its obligations and directly affect the cost and availability to that company of unsecured financing. Downgrades could adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital. As compared to prior periods, our growth slowed considerably in 2008 and we cannot predict when, if ever, we will grow at the rate we have in the past. We grew from having one chartered bank with $443.7 million in total assets and $410.2 million in total deposits as of December 31, 2000, to five chartered banks with $5.0 billion in total assets and $3.5 billion in total deposits as of December 31, 2007. Although we continued to grow in 2008, reaching $5.2 billion in total assets and $3.7 billion in total deposits at year end, our growth rates have slowed. We cannot predict when, if ever, we will be able to grow at rates we have achieved in the past. Our expansion strategy may not prove to be successful and our market value and profitability may suffer. We continually evaluate expansion through acquisitions of banks, selected assets or deposits of failed or distressed banks, the organization of new banks and the expansion of our existing banks through establishment of new branches. Any future acquisitions will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions. These risks include, among other things: • difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel; • potential disruption of our ongoing business; and • inability of our management to maximize our financial and strategic position by the successful implementation of uniform product offerings and the incorporation of uniform technology into our product offerings and control systems. The recent crisis also revealed and caused risks that are unique to acquisitions of financial institutions and banks, and that are difficult to assess, including the risk that the acquired institution has troubled, illiquid, or bad assets or an unstable base of deposits or assets under management. We expect that competition for suitable acquisition candidates may be significant. We may compete with other banks or financial service companies with similar acquisition strategies, many of which are larger and have greater financial and other resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify and acquire suitable acquisition targets on acceptable terms and conditions. In addition to the acquisition of existing financial institutions, we may consider the organization of new banks in new market areas. We do not have any current plan to organize a new bank. Any acquisition or organization of a new bank carries with it numerous risks, including the following: • the inability to obtain all required regulatory approvals; • significant costs and anticipated operating losses during the application and organizational phases, and the first years of operation of the new bank; • the inability to secure the services of qualified senior management; 34 Table of Contents • the local market may not accept the services of a new bank owned and managed by a bank holding company headquartered outside of the market area of the new bank; • the inability to obtain attractive locations within a new market at a reasonable cost; and • the additional strain on management resources and internal systems and controls. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with acquisitions and the organization of new banks. Our inability to overcome these risks could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business strategy and maintain our market value. We may not be able to control costs and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could suffer. Our ability to manage our business successfully will depend in part on our ability to maintain low-cost deposits and to control operating costs. If we are not able to efficiently manage our costs, our results of operations would suffer. We may be forced to divert resources from maintaining and growing existing businesses and client relationships, which could cause us to experience a material adverse effect. Our future success will depend on the ability of our officers and other key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational, credit, financial, management and other internal risk controls and processes, and improve our reporting systems and procedures, while at the same time maintaining and growing existing businesses and client relationships. We may not successfully implement such improvements in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. Such activities would divert management from maintaining and growing our existing businesses and client relationships and could require us to incur additional expenditures to expand our administrative and operational infrastructure. If we are unable to improve our controls and processes, or our reporting systems and procedures, we may experience compliance and operational problems or incur additional expenditures beyond current projections, any one of which could adversely affect our financial results. Our business success is dependent upon our ability to recruit and retain qualified employees, especially seasoned relationship bankers. Our business plan includes, and is dependent upon, hiring and retaining highly qualified and motivated executives and employees at every level. In particular, our relative success to date has been partly the result of our management’s ability to seek and retain highly qualified relationship bankers that have long-standing relationships in their communities. These professionals bring with them valuable customer relationships, and have been an integral part of our ability to attract deposits and to expand in our market areas. Our declining stock price and new government limits on employee compensation for TARP recipients could make it more difficult to recruit and retain people. From time to time we recruit or utilize the services of employees who are subject to limitations on their ability to use confidential information of a prior employer, to freely compete with that employer, or to solicit customers of that employer. If we are unable to hire or retain qualified employees, we may not be able to successfully execute our business strategy. If we are found to have violated any nonsolicitation or other restrictions applicable to us or our employees, we could become subject to litigation or other proceedings. Our future success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in a highly competitive market. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our competitors, including commercial banks, community banks, savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks, credit unions, consumer finance companies, insurance companies, securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors, money market mutual funds and other financial institutions, compete with lending and deposit-gathering services offered by us. Increased competition in our markets may result in reduced loans and deposits. There is very strong competition for financial services in the market areas in which we conduct our businesses from many local commercial banks as well as numerous regionally based commercial banks. 35 Table of Contents Many of these competing institutions have much greater financial and marketing resources than we have. Due to their size, many competitors can achieve larger economies of scale and may offer a broader range of products and services than us. If we are unable to offer competitive products and services, our business may be negatively affected. Some of the financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies and federally insured financial institutions. As a result, these non-bank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various services. The banking business in our primary market areas is very competitive, and the level of competition facing us may increase further, which may limit our asset growth and financial results. Our business would be harmed if we lost the services of any of our senior management team or senior relationship bankers. We believe that our success to date has been substantially dependent on our senior management team, which includes Robert Sarver, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Dale Gibbons, our Chief Financial Officer, Bruce Hendricks, President and Chief Executive Officer of Bank of Nevada, James Lundy, President and Chief Executive Officer of Alliance Bank of Arizona, Gerald Cady, President and Chief Executive Officer of Torrey Pines Bank, Grant Markham, President and Chief Executive Officer of First Independent Bank of Nevada, Arnold Grisham, President and Chief Executive Officer of Alta Alliance Bank and certain of our senior relationship bankers. We also believe that our prospects for success in the future are dependent on retaining our senior management team and senior relationship bankers. In addition to their skills and experience as bankers, these persons provide us with extensive community ties upon which our competitive strategy is based. Our ability to retain these persons may be hindered by the fact that we have not entered into employment agreements with any of them. The loss of the services of any of these persons, particularly Mr. Sarver, could have an adverse effect on our business if we cannot replace them with equally qualified persons who are also familiar with our market areas. See also “The limitations on bonuses, retention awards and incentive compensation contained in ARRA may adversely affect our ability to retain our highest performing employees.” Mr. Sarver’s involvement in outside business interests requires substantial time and attention and may adversely affect our ability to achieve our strategic plan. Mr. Sarver joined us in December 2002 and is an integral part of our business. He has substantial business interests that are unrelated to us, including his ownership interest in the Phoenix Suns NBA franchise. Mr. Sarver’s other business interests demand significant time commitments, the intensity of which may vary throughout the year. Mr. Sarver’s other commitments may reduce the amount of time he has available to devote to our business. We believe that Mr. Sarver spends the substantial majority of his business time on matters related to our company. However, a significant reduction in the amount of time Mr. Sarver devotes to our business may adversely affect our ability to achieve our strategic plan. Terrorist attacks and threats of war or actual war may impact all aspects of our operations, revenues, costs and stock price in unpredictable ways. Terrorist attacks in the United States, as well as future events occurring in response or in connection to them including, without limitation, future terrorist attacks against United States targets, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies or military or trade disruptions, may impact our operations. Any of these events could cause consumer confidence and savings to decrease or result in increased volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy. Any of these occurrences could have an adverse impact on our operating results, revenues and costs and may result in the volatility of the market price for our common stock and impair its future price. If our real estate investment trust (“REIT”) affiliate fails to qualify as a REIT, we may be subject to a higher consolidated effective tax rate. The Company holds certain commercial real estate loans, residential real estate loans and other loans in a real estate investment trust through its wholly owned subsidiary, Bank of Nevada. Qualification as a REIT involves application of specific provisions of the Internal Revenue Code relating to various assets. If the REIT fails to meet any of the required provisions for REITs, or there are changes in tax laws or 36 Table of Contents interpretations thereof, it could no longer qualify as a REIT and the resulting tax consequences would increase our effective tax rate or cause us to have a tax liability for prior years. We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock. As a result, an increase in the price of our common stock may be an investor’s sole source of gains in the future. We have never paid a cash dividend, and do not anticipate paying a cash dividend in the foreseeable future. Further, we cannot pay dividends for so long as the Series A Preferred Stock that we issued to the Treasury is outstanding. As a result, investors may only receive a return on their investment in the common stock if the market price of the common stock increases over their purchase price. Our business may be adversely affected by internet fraud. We are inherently exposed to many types of operational risk, including those caused by the use of computer, internet and telecommunications systems. These risks may manifest themselves in the form of fraud by employees, by customers, other outside entities targeting us and/or our customers that use our internet banking, electronic banking or some other form of our telecommunications systems. Given the growing level of use of electronic, internet-based, and networked systems to conduct business directly or indirectly with our clients, certain fraud losses may not be avoidable regardless of the preventative and detection systems in place. Risks Related to the Banking Industry We operate in a highly regulated environment and changes in the laws and regulations that govern our operations, changes in the accounting principles that are applicable to us, and our failure to comply with the foregoing, may adversely affect us. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and legislation that governs almost all aspects of our operations. See “Supervision and Regulation.” The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time and are primarily intended for the protection of customers, depositors and the deposit insurance funds. Any changes to these laws or regulations or any applicable accounting principles could make it more difficult and expensive for us to comply with such laws, regulations, or principles, and could affect the way that we conduct business. The foregoing, and our failure to comply with any such laws, regulations, or principles or changes thereto, may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. While we cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, these changes could be materially adverse to our investors and stockholders. Company’s Bank of Nevada subsidiary was notified by banking regulators that its operations and activities will be subject to additional informal supervisory oversight following their September 30, 2008 examination of the bank. The bank will be required to enhance a variety of its policies, procedures and processes regarding asset quality, loan concentrations, liquidity, interest rate sensitivity, and investment securities. In addition, the bank will be required to obtain the non- objection of these agencies before engaging in any transaction that would materially change its balance sheet composition. The bank has already implemented a number of changes to its policies, procedures and processes in the last several months that we believe address many of these issues. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our profitability, business and prospects. Most of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature, which subjects us to significant risks from changes in interest rates and can impact our net income and the valuation of our assets and liabilities. Increases or decreases in prevailing interest rates could have an adverse effect on our business, asset quality and prospects. Our operating income and net income depend to a great extent on our net interest margin. Net interest margin is the difference between the interest yields we receive on loans, securities and other interest earning assets and the interest rates we pay on interest bearing deposits, borrowings and other liabilities. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including competition, general economic conditions and monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities, including the Federal Reserve. If the rate of interest we pay on our interest bearing deposits, borrowings and other liabilities increases more than the rate of interest we receive on loans, securities and other interest earning assets, our net interest income, and therefore our earnings, could be adversely affected. Our earnings could also be adversely affected if the rates on our loans and other investments fall more quickly than those on our deposits and other liabilities. In addition, loan volumes are affected by market interest rates on loans; rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations while lower interest rates are usually associated with higher loan originations. Conversely, in rising interest rate environments, loan repayment rates will decline and in falling interest rate environments, loan repayment rates will increase. We cannot assure you that we will be able to minimize our interest rate risk. In addition, an increase in the general level of interest rates 37 Table of Contents may adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. Interest rates also affect how much money we can lend. When interest rates rise, the cost of borrowing increases. Accordingly, changes in market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are required to maintain an allowance for loan losses. This allowance for loan losses may have to be adjusted in the future. Any adjustment to the allowance for loan losses, whether due to regulatory changes, economic changes or other factors, may affect our financial condition and earnings. We maintain an allowance for loan losses. The allowance is established through a provision for loan losses based on our management’s evaluation of the risks inherent in our loan portfolio and the general economy. The allowance is based upon a number of factors, including the size of the loan portfolio, asset classifications, economic trends, industry experience and trends, industry and geographic concentrations, estimated collateral values, management’s assessment of the credit risk inherent in the portfolio, historical loan loss experience and loan underwriting policies. In addition, we evaluate all loans identified as problem loans and augment the allowance based upon our estimation of the potential loss associated with those problem loans. Additions to our allowance for loan losses decrease our net income. The deterioration in economic conditions has caused us to increase our allowance for loan losses to $74.8 million, or 1.83% of gross loans, at December 31, 2008 from $49.3 million, or 1.36% of gross loans, at December 31, 2007. The actual amount of future provisions for loan losses cannot be determined at this time and may exceed the amounts of past provisions. If the evaluation we perform in connection with establishing loan loss reserves is wrong, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover our losses, which would have an adverse effect on our operating results. Due to the significant increase in loans originated in recent periods, which lack repayment history, and the volatile economy, we cannot assure you that we will not experience an increase in delinquencies and losses as these loans continue to mature. The federal regulators, in reviewing our loan portfolio as part of a regulatory examination, from time to time require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, thereby negatively affecting our financial condition and earnings at that time. Moreover, additions to the allowance may be necessary based on changes in economic and real estate market conditions, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our management’s control. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. About 77.3% of our outstanding loan portfolio as of December 31, 2008 was secured by real estate. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. These costs and claims could adversely affect our business and prospects. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 38 Table of Contents 