ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our businesses face risks and uncertainties, including those discussed below and elsewhere in this report. These factors represent risks and uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face. Others that we do not know about now, or that we do not now think are significant, may impair our business or the trading price of our securities. The following are significant risks we have identified. Our current primary market area is substantially dependent on gaming and tourism revenue, and a downturn in gaming or tourism could hurt our business and our prospects. Our business is currently concentrated in the Las Vegas metropolitan area. The economy of the Las Vegas metropolitan area is unique in the United States for its level of dependence on services and industries related to gaming and tourism. Any event that negatively impacts the gaming or tourism industry will adversely impact the Las Vegas economy. Gaming and tourism revenue (whether or not such tourism is directly related to gaming) is vulnerable to fluctuations in the national economy. A prolonged downturn in the national economy could have a significant adverse effect on the economy of the Las Vegas area. Virtually any development or event that could dissuade travel or spending related to gaming and tourism, whether inside or outside of Las Vegas, could adversely affect the Las Vegas economy. In this regard, the Las Vegas economy is more susceptible than the economies of other cities to issues such as higher gasoline and other fuel prices, increased airfares, unemployment levels, recession, rising interest rates, and other economic conditions, whether domestic or foreign. Gaming and tourism are also susceptible to certain political conditions or events, such as military hostilities and acts of terrorism, whether domestic or foreign. A terrorist act, or the mere threat of a terrorist act, may adversely affect gaming and tourism and the Las Vegas economy and may cause substantial harm to our business. In addition, Las Vegas competes with other areas of the country for gaming revenue, and it is possible that the expansion of gaming operations in other states, such as California, as a result of changes in laws or otherwise, could significantly reduce gaming revenue in the Las Vegas area. Although we have no substantial customer relationships in the gaming and tourism industries, a downturn in the Las Vegas economy, generally, could have an adverse effect on our customers and result in an increase in loan delinquencies and foreclosures, a reduction in the demand for our products and services and a reduction of the value of our collateral for loans which could result in the reduction of a customer’s borrowing power, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may not be able to continue our growth at the rate we have in the past several years. We have grown substantially, from having one chartered bank with $443.7 million in total assets and $410.2 million in total deposits as of December 31, 2000, to three chartered banks with $2.9 billion in total assets and $2.4 billion in total deposits as of December 31, 2005. If we are unable to effectively execute on our strategy, we may not be able to continue to grow at our historical rates. In particular, Alliance Bank of Arizona and Torrey Pines Bank have achieved unusually high annual rates of growth as compared to other recently opened de novo banks. We do not expect this high level of growth at Alliance Bank of Arizona and Torrey Pines Bank to continue in the future. Our growth and expansion strategy may not prove to be successful and our market value and profitability may suffer. Growth through acquisitions of banks or the organization of new banks in high-growth markets, especially in markets outside of our current markets, represents an important component of our business strategy. We recently entered into agreements to acquire Intermountain and Bank of Nevada. For more information regarding these acquisitions, see “Recent Developments”. Both of these acquisitions, as well as any future acquisitions, will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions. These risks include, among other things: • difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel; • potential disruption of our ongoing business; and 26 Table of Contents • inability of our management to maximize our financial and strategic position by the successful implementation of uniform product offerings and the incorporation of uniform technology into our product offerings and control systems. We expect that competition for suitable acquisition candidates may be significant. We may compete with other banks or financial service companies with similar acquisition strategies, many of which are larger and have greater financial and other resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify and acquire suitable acquisition targets on acceptable terms and conditions. In addition to the acquisition of existing financial institutions, we may consider the organization of new banks in new market areas. We do not have any current plan to organize a new bank. Any acquisition or organization of a new bank carries with it numerous risks, including the following: • the inability to obtain all required regulatory approvals; • significant costs and anticipated operating losses during the application and organizational phases, and the first years of operation of the new bank; • the inability to secure the services of qualified senior management; • the local market may not accept the services of a new bank owned and managed by a bank holding company headquartered outside of the market area of the new bank; • the inability to obtain attractive locations within a new market at a reasonable cost; and • the additional strain on management resources and internal systems and controls. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with acquisitions and the organization of new banks. Our inability to overcome these risks could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business strategy and maintain our market value and profitability growth. The combined company’s status as a holding company makes it dependent on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet its obligations. After the pending mergers, Western Alliance will continue to be a holding company that conducts almost all of its operations through its subsidiaries. The combined company will not have significant assets other than the stock of its subsidiaries. Accordingly, the combined company will depend on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet its obligations. The combined company’s right to participate in any distribution of earnings or assets of its subsidiaries is subject to the prior claims of creditors of such subsidiaries. Under federal and state law, a subsidiary is limited in the amount of dividends it may pay to its parent without prior regulatory approval. Also, bank regulators have the authority to prohibit a subsidiary from paying dividends if the bank regulators determine that such subsidiary is in an unsafe or unsound condition or that the payment would be an unsafe and unsound bank practice. If we continue to grow rapidly as planned, we may not be able to control costs and maintain our asset quality. We expect to continue to grow our assets and deposits, the products and services which we offer and the scale of our operations, generally, both internally and through acquisitions. Our ability to manage our growth successfully will depend on our ability to maintain cost controls and asset quality while attracting additional loans and deposits on favorable terms. If we grow too quickly and are not able to control costs and maintain asset quality, this rapid growth could materially adversely affect our financial performance. We may have difficulty managing our growth, which may divert resources and limit our ability to successfully expand our operations. Our rapid growth has placed, and it may continue to place, significant demands on our operations and management. Our future success will depend on the ability of our officers and other key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational, credit, financial, management and other internal risk controls and processes and our reporting systems and procedures, and to manage a growing number of 27 Table of Contents client relationships. We may not successfully implement improvements to our management information and control systems and control procedures and processes in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. In particular, our controls and procedures must be able to accommodate an increase in expected loan volume and the infrastructure that comes with new branches and banks. Thus, our growth strategy may divert management from our existing businesses and may require us to incur additional expenditures to expand our administrative and operational infrastructure. If we are unable to manage future expansion in our operations, we may experience compliance and operational problems, have to slow the pace of growth, or have to incur additional expenditures beyond current projections to support such growth, any one of which could adversely affect our business. Our future growth is dependent upon our ability to recruit additional, qualified employees, especially seasoned relationship bankers. Our market areas are experiencing a period of rapid growth, placing a premium on highly qualified employees in a number of industries, including the financial services industry. Our business plan includes, and is dependent upon, hiring and retaining highly qualified and motivated executives and employees at every level. In particular, our success has been partly the result of our management’s ability to seek and retain highly qualified relationship bankers that have long-standing relationships in their communities. These professionals bring with them valuable customer relationships, and have been an integral part of our ability to attract deposits and to expand rapidly in our market areas. We expect to experience substantial competition in our endeavor to identify, hire and retain the top-quality employees that we believe are key to our future success. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to grow our franchise and successfully execute our business strategy. We are highly dependent on real estate and events that negatively impact the real estate market could hurt our business. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is dependent on real estate. As of December 31, 2005, real estate related loans accounted for approximately 80% of total loans. Our financial condition may be adversely affected by a decline in the value of the real estate securing our loans. In addition, acts of nature, including earthquakes, fires and floods, which may cause uninsured damage and other loss of value to real estate that secures these loans, may also negatively impact our financial condition. In addition, title company deposits comprised 31.9% of our total non-interest bearing deposits as of December 31, 2005. A slowdown in real estate activity in the markets we serve may cause a decline in our deposit growth and may negatively impact our financial condition. Our high concentration of commercial real estate, construction and land development and commercial, industrial loans expose us to increased lending risks. As of December 31, 2005, the composition of our loan portfolio was as follows: • commercial real estate loans of $727.2 million, or 40.5% of total loans, • construction and land development loans of $432.7 million, or 24.1% of total loans, • commercial and industrial loans of $342.4 million, or 19.1% of total loans, • residential real estate loans of $272.9 million, or 15.2% of total loans, and • consumer loans of $20.4 million, or 1.1% of total loans. Commercial real estate, construction and land development and commercial and industrial loans, which comprised 83.7% of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2005, expose us to a greater risk of loss than our residential real estate and consumer loans, which comprised 16.3% of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2005. Commercial real estate and land development loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential loans. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one commercial loan or one credit relationship may expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to one residential mortgage loan. 28 Table of Contents If we lost a significant portion of our low-cost deposits, it would negatively impact our profitability. Our profitability depends in part on our success in attracting and retaining a stable base of low-cost deposits. As of December 31, 2005, our deposit base was comprised of 40.9% non-interest bearing deposits, of which 31.9% consisted of title company deposits, which consist primarily of deposits held in escrow pending the closing of commercial and residential real estate transactions, and to a lesser extent, operating accounts for title companies; 61.6% consisted of other business deposits, which consist primarily of operating accounts for businesses; and 6.5% consisted of consumer deposits. We consider these deposits to be core deposits. While we generally do not believe these deposits are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations, the competition for these deposits in our markets is strong and if we lost a significant portion of these low-cost deposits, it would negatively impact our profitability. Many of our loans have been made recently, and in certain circumstances there is limited repayment history against which we can fully assess the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. If our allowance for loan losses is not adequate to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease. The risk of nonpayment of loans is inherent in all lending activities, and nonpayment, if it occurs, may negatively impact our earnings and overall financial condition, as well as the value of our common stock. Also, many of our loans have been made over the last three years and in certain circumstances there is limited repayment history against which we can fully assess the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for probable losses based on several factors. If our assumptions are wrong, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover our losses, which would have an adverse effect on our operating results. Additions to our allowance for loan losses decrease our net income. While we have not experienced any significant charge-offs or had large numbers of nonperforming loans, due to the significant increase in loans originated during this period, we cannot assure you that we will not experience an increase in delinquencies and losses as these loans continue to mature. The actual amount of future provisions for loan losses cannot be determined at this time and may exceed the amounts of past provisions. Our future success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in a highly competitive market. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our competitors, including commercial banks, community banks, savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks, credit unions, consumer finance companies, insurance companies, securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors, money market mutual funds and other financial institutions, compete with lending and deposit-gathering services offered by us. Increased competition in our markets may result in reduced loans and deposits. There is very strong competition for financial services in the market areas in which we conduct our businesses from many local commercial banks as well as numerous regionally based commercial banks. Many of these competing institutions have much greater financial and marketing resources than we have. Due to their size, many competitors can achieve larger economies of scale and may offer a broader range of products and services than us. If we are unable to offer competitive products and services, our earnings may be negatively affected. Some of the financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies and federally insured financial institutions. As a result, these nonbank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various services. The banking business in our primary market areas is very competitive, and the level of competition facing us may increase further, which may limit our asset growth and profitability. For more information on the competition we have in our markets, see “Business — Competition.” Our business would be harmed if we lost the services of any of our senior management team or senior relationship bankers. We believe that our success to date has been substantially dependent on our senior management team, which includes Robert Sarver, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Executive Officer of Torrey Pines Bank, Dale Gibbons, our Chief Financial Officer, Larry Woodrum, President and Chief Executive Officer of BankWest of Nevada and James Lundy, President and Chief Executive Officer of Alliance Bank of Arizona, and certain of our senior relationship bankers. We also believe that our prospects for success in the future are dependent on retaining our senior management team and senior 29 Table of Contents relationship bankers. In addition to their skills and experience as bankers, these persons provide us with extensive community ties upon which our competitive strategy is based. Our ability to retain these persons may be hindered by the fact that we have not entered into employment agreements with any of them. The loss of the services of any of these persons, particularly Mr. Sarver, could have an adverse effect on our business if we can’t replace them with equally qualified persons who are also familiar with our market areas. Mr. Sarver’s involvement in outside business interests requires substantial time and attention and may adversely affect our ability to achieve our strategic plan and maintain our current growth. Mr. Sarver joined us in December of 2002 and has been an integral part of our recent growth. He has substantial business interests that are unrelated to us, including his ownership interest in the Phoenix Suns NBA franchise. Mr. Sarver’s other business interests demand significant time commitments, the intensity of which may vary throughout the year. Mr. Sarver’s other commitments may reduce the amount of time he has available to devote to our business. We believe that Mr. Sarver spends the substantial majority of his business time on matters related to our company. However, a significant reduction in the amount of time Mr. Sarver devotes to our business may adversely affect our ability to achieve our strategic plan and maintain our current growth. Adverse publicity or circumstances similar to that experienced following the arrest and subsequent acquittal of our Chief Financial Officer could generate negative publicity for us, cause reputational harm and cause our stock price to decline. In June 2002, after a jury trial, Dale Gibbons was acquitted of charges of possession of a controlled substance, dealing in harmful material to a minor and endangerment of a child. Following his acquittal, Mr. Gibbons filed a civil rights lawsuit against numerous parties. In early 2005, the defendants were granted summary judgment on substantially all of Mr. Gibbons’ claims, and, subsequently, the parties resolved the lawsuit and an order of dismissal was entered by the U.S. District Court. There was extensive media coverage of all of the events surrounding Mr. Gibbons’ arrest and his subsequent resignation as the Chief Financial Officer of his then employer, Zions Bancorporation. Before hiring Mr. Gibbons as our Chief Financial Officer, our Audit Committee engaged special legal counsel and an investigator to assist in considering Mr. Gibbons’ prospective employment with Western Alliance. We evaluated Mr. Gibbons’ extensive banking background, reviewed the legal and investigatory descriptions of the facts and circumstances surrounding his arrest and consulted with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. Our Board of Directors determined that Mr. Gibbons was suitable to serve as our Chief Financial Officer. Subsequent to his hiring, our Board was updated on the claims and information alleged against Mr. Gibbons in the civil rights lawsuit. Also, in July 2005, we completed our initial public offering and listed our common stock on the NYSE. Mr. Gibbons was an integral part of that effort. Our Board continues to believe Mr. Gibbons is suitable to serve as our Chief Financial Officer. However, adverse publicity or circumstances, similar to that which surrounded Mr. Gibbons’ arrest and trial in 2001 and 2002, could materially damage the public’s perception of us, and impair the reputations of Mr. Gibbons and Western Alliance, and adverse public sentiment could affect the market price of our common stock and our business. A deterioration in economic conditions generally could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. A deterioration in economic conditions generally could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Such a deterioration could result in a variety of adverse consequences to us, including a reduction in net income and the following: • Loan delinquencies, non-performing assets and foreclosures may increase, which could result in higher operating costs, as well as increases in our loan loss provisions; • Demand for our products and services may decline, including the demand for loans, which would adversely affect our revenues; and • Collateral for loans made by us may decline in value, reducing a customer’s borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our loans which would cause decreases in net interest income and increasing loan loss provisions. 30 Table of Contents Economic conditions either nationally or locally in areas in which our operations are concentrated may be less favorable than expected. Deterioration in local, regional, national or global economic conditions could result in, among other things, an increase in loan delinquencies, a decrease in property values, a change in housing turnover rate or a reduction in the level of bank deposits. Particularly, a weakening of the real estate or employment market in our primary market areas of Las Vegas, San Diego, Tucson and Phoenix could result in an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our profitability and asset quality. Terrorist attacks and threats of war or actual war may impact all aspects of our operations, revenues, costs and stock price in unpredictable ways. Terrorist attacks in the United States, as well as future events occurring in response or in connection to them including, without limitation, future terrorist attacks against United States targets, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies or military or trade disruptions, may impact our operations. Any of these events could cause consumer confidence and savings to decrease or result in increased volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy. Any of these occurrences could have an adverse impact on our operating results, revenues and costs and may result in the volatility of the market price for our common stock and impair its future price. We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock may be your sole source of gains in the future. We have never paid a cash dividend, and do not anticipate paying a cash dividend in the foreseeable future. As a result, you may only receive a return on your investment in the common stock if the market price of the common stock increases. We may underestimate the impact of new reporting company requirements. We recently became a reporting company as a result of our initial public offering in June 2005. As a public company, we have and will continue to incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules implemented by the SEC and the NYSE, have required changes to corporate governance practices of public companies. For example, Section 404 of Sarbanes Oxley will require us to evaluate and report on our internal controls over financial reporting and have our independent auditors attest to our evaluation, beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006. If we underestimate the expense and resources spent by management involved in complying with these regulations, our financial performance may be adversely affected. We have limited rights to use the “BankWest of Nevada” mark. Pursuant to a previous settlement agreement, we have agreed to use the word “BankWest” only within the name and service mark “BankWest of Nevada.” The settlement agreement covers our use of the mark only in Clark and Nye counties, Nevada. Our use of the mark “BankWest of Nevada” outside of Clark or Nye counties could result in: • further claims of infringement, including costly litigation; • an injunction prohibiting our proposed use of the mark; and • the need to enter into licensing agreements, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Nevada First Bank, a wholly owned subsidiary of Intermountain, has a branch located in Reno, which is outside of Clark and Nye counties. Following consummation of the Bank of Nevada transaction, we intend to change the name of BankWest of Nevada to Bank of Nevada. If our use of the “BankWest of Nevada” mark or any other similar mark is limited or prohibited, or we are required to pay an additional license fee for such use, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 31 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Banking Industry We operate in a highly regulated environment; changes in laws and regulations and accounting principles may adversely affect us. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and legislation which govern almost all aspects of our operations. See “Supervision and Regulation.” The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time and are primarily intended for the protection of customers, depositors and the deposit insurance funds. Any changes to these laws or any applicable accounting principles could make it more difficult and expensive for us to comply and could affect the way that we conduct business, which may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. While we cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, these changes could be materially adverse to our investors and stockholders. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our profitability, business and prospects. Increases or decreases in prevailing interest rates could have an adverse effect on our business, asset quality and prospects. Our operating income and net income depend to a great extent on our net interest margin. Net interest margin is the difference between the interest yields we receive on loans, securities and other interest earning assets and the interest rates we pay on interest bearing deposits and other liabilities. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including competition, general economic conditions and monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities, including the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, referred to as the FRB. If the rate of interest we pay on our interest bearing deposits and other liabilities increases more than the rate of interest we receive on loans, securities and other interest earning assets, our net interest income, and therefore our earnings, could be adversely affected. Our earnings could also be adversely affected if the rates on our loans and other investments fall more quickly than those on our deposits and other liabilities. In addition, loan volumes are affected by market interest rates on loans; rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations while lower interest rates are usually associated with higher loan originations. Conversely, in rising interest rate environments, loan repayment rates will decline and in falling interest rate environments, loan repayment rates will increase. We cannot assure you that we will be able to minimize our interest rate risk. In addition, an increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. Interest rates also affect how much money we can lend. When interest rates rise, the cost of borrowing increases. Accordingly, changes in market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are required to maintain an allowance for loan losses. This allowance for loan losses may have to be adjusted in the future. Any adjustment to the allowance for loan losses, whether due to regulatory changes, economic changes or other factors, may affect our financial condition and earnings. We maintain an allowance for loan losses. The allowance is established through a provision for loan losses based on our management’s evaluation of the risks inherent in our loan portfolio and the general economy. The allowance is based upon a number of factors, including the size of the loan portfolio, asset classifications, economic trends, industry experience and trends, industry and geographic concentrations, estimated collateral values, management’s assessment of the credit risk inherent in the portfolio, historical loan loss experience and loan underwriting policies. In addition, we evaluate all loans identified as problem loans and augment the allowance based upon the perceived risks associated with those problem loans. The federal regulators, in reviewing our loan portfolio as part of a regulatory examination, may request us to increase our allowance for loan losses, thereby negatively affecting our financial condition and earnings at that time. Moreover, additions to the allowance may be necessary based on changes in economic and real estate market conditions, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our management’s control. 32 Table of Contents We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. About 80% of our outstanding loan portfolio as of December 31, 2005 was secured by real estate. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. These costs and claims could adversely affect our business and prospects. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 