RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves various risks which are specific to the Company. Several of these risks and uncertainties, are discussed below and elsewhere in this report. This listing should not be considered as all-inclusive. These factors represent risks and uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Other risks that we do not know about now, or that we do not believe are significant, could negatively impact our business or the trading price of our securities. In addition to common business risks such as 13 Table of Contents theft, loss of market share and disasters, the Company is subject to special types of risk due to the nature of its business. See additional discussions about credit, interest rate, market and litigation risks in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” section of this report beginning on page 29 and additional information regarding legislative and regulatory risks in the “Supervision and Regulation” section beginning on page 59. Risks Relating to Our Business Our financial performance may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally Our financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where we operate and in the United States as a whole. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence, limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital, increases in inflation or interest rates, natural disasters or a combination of these or other factors. Since mid-2007, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally have been materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. The global markets have been characterized by substantially increased volatility and an overall loss of investor confidence. Market conditions have led to the failure or merger of a number of prominent financial institutions. Financial institution failures or near-failures have resulted in further losses as a consequence of defaults on securities issued by them and defaults under contracts entered into with such entities as counterparties. Furthermore, declining asset values, defaults on mortgages and consumer loans, and the lack of market and investor confidence, as well as other factors, have all combined to increase credit default swap spreads and to cause rating agencies to lower credit ratings. Despite recent stabilization in asset prices, economic performance and significant declines in Federal Reserve borrowing rates, there remains a risk of continued asset and economic deterioration, which may increase the cost and decrease the availability of liquidity. Additionally, some banks and other lenders have suffered significant losses and they have become reluctant to lend, even on a secured basis, because of capital limitations, potentially increased risks of default and the impact of declining asset values on collateral. The foregoing has significantly weakened the strength and liquidity of some financial institutions worldwide. It is possible that the business environment in the United States will continue to deteriorate for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that these conditions will improve in the near term. Such conditions could adversely affect the credit quality of our loans, our results of operations and our financial condition. The Company is highly dependent on real estate and events that negatively impact the real estate market will hurt our business and earnings The Company is located in areas in which economic growth is largely dependent on the real estate market, and a substantial majority of our loan portfolio is secured or otherwise dependent on real estate. Real estate values have been declining in our markets, in some cases in a material and even dramatic fashion, which affects collateral values and has resulted in increased provisions for credit losses. We expect the weakness in these portions of our loan portfolio to continue through 2012. Accordingly, it is anticipated that our nonperforming asset and charge-off levels will remain elevated. Further, the effects of recent mortgage market challenges, combined with the ongoing decrease in residential real estate market prices and demand, could result in further price reductions in home values, adversely affecting the value of collateral securing the residential real estate and construction loans that we hold, as well as loan originations and gains on sale of real estate and construction loans. A further decline in real estate activity would likely cause a further decline in asset and deposit growth and further negatively impact our earnings and financial condition. The Company’s high concentration of commercial real estate, construction and land development and commercial and industrial loans expose us to increased lending risks Commercial real estate, construction and land development and commercial and industrial loans, comprised approximately 85% of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2011, and expose the Company to a greater risk of loss than residential real estate and consumer loans, which comprised a smaller percentage of the total loan portfolio at December 31, 2011. Commercial real estate and land development loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential loans. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one commercial loan or one credit relationship exposes us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to one residential mortgage loan. In addition, these real estate construction, acquisition and development loans have certain risks that are not present in other types of loans. The primary credit risks 14 Table of Contents associated with real estate construction, acquisition and development loans are underwriting, project risks and market risks. Project risks include cost overruns, borrower credit risk, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk and environmental and other hazard risks. Market risks are risks associated with the sale of the completed residential and commercial units. They include affordability risk, which means the risk that borrowers cannot obtain affordable financing, product design risk, and risks posed by competing projects. Real estate construction, acquisition and development loans also involve additional risks because funds are advanced upon the security of the project, which is of uncertain value prior to its completion, and costs may exceed realizable values in declining real estate markets. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs and the realizable market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. As a result, real estate construction, acquisition and development loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of the completed project proves to be overstated or market values or rental rates decline, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project. If we are forced to foreclose on a project prior to or at completion due to a default, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover all of the unpaid balance and accrued interest on the loan as well as related foreclosure and holding costs. In addition, we may be required to fund additional amounts to complete the project and may have to hold the property for an unspecified period of time while we attempt to dispose of it. The adverse effects of the foregoing matters upon our real estate construction, acquisition and development portfolio could lead to a further increase in non-performing loans related to this portfolio and these non-performing loans may result in a material level of charge-offs, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Actual credit losses may exceed the losses that we expect in our loan portfolio, which could require us to raise additional capital. If we are not able to raise additional capital, our financial condition, results of operations and capital would be materially and adversely affected Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our consolidated loan portfolio and maintain an allowance for estimated credit losses based on a number of factors, including the size of the portfolio, asset classifications, economic trends, industry experience and trends, industry and geographic concentrations, estimated collateral values, management’s assessment of the credit risk inherent in the portfolio, historical loan loss experience and loan underwriting policies. In addition, the Company evaluates all loans identified as problem loans and augments the allowance based upon our estimation of the potential loss associated with those problem loans. Additions to the allowance for credit losses recorded through our provision for credit losses decrease net income. If such assumptions and judgments are incorrect, our actual credit losses may exceed our allowance for credit losses. At December 31, 2011, our allowance for credit losses was $99.2 million. Deterioration in the real estate market and/or general economic conditions could affect the ability of our loan customers to service their debt, which could result in additional loan provisions and subsequent increases in our allowance for credit losses in the future. Any increases in the provision or allowance for credit losses will result in a decrease in our net income and, potentially, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, because future events are uncertain and because we may not successfully identify all deteriorating loans in a timely manner, there may be loans that deteriorate in an accelerated time frame. If actual credit losses materially exceed our allowance for credit losses, we may be required to raise additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Our inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and capital. In addition, we may be required to increase our allowance for credit losses based on changes in economic and real estate market conditions, new information regarding existing loans, input from regulators in connection with their review of our allowance, as a result of changes in regulatory guidance regulations or accounting standards, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our management’s control. Increases to our allowance for credit losses would negatively affect our financial condition and earnings. Because of the geographic concentration of our assets, our business is highly susceptible to local economic conditions Our business is primarily concentrated in selected markets in Arizona, California and Nevada. As a result of this geographic concentration, our financial condition and results of operations depend largely upon economic conditions in these market areas. Deterioration in economic conditions in the markets we serve could result in one or more of the following: an increase in loan delinquencies; an increase in problem assets and foreclosures; a decrease in the demand for our products and services; and a decrease in the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, the value of assets associated with problem loans and collateral coverage. 15 Table of Contents If actual credit losses exceed our provision for credit losses, we may also be required to record a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when, in the opinion of management, it is more likely than not that some or all deferred tax assets will not be realized. This determination is based upon an evaluation of all available positive or negative evidence. As a result of losses incurred in 2009, and 2010, the Company is in a three-year cumulative pretax loss position at December 31, 2011. A cumulative loss position is considered significant negative evidence in assessing the realizability of a deferred tax asset. The Company has assessed its ability to utilize deferred tax assets and we have concluded that there is sufficient positive evidence to overcome this negative evidence. This positive evidence includes Company forecasts, exclusive of tax planning strategies, that show realization of deferred tax assets by the end of 2013 based on current projections. In addition, management has identified tax planning strategies that would also be available to utilize deferred tax assets. The Company has concluded that there is sufficient positive evidence to overcome negative evidence, and that it is not more likely than not that deferred tax assets will not be realized. However, if future results underperform management’s forecasts, the Company may be required to record a valuation allowance against some or all of its deferred tax assets which would have an adverse impact on our capital. We could be required to revalue our deferred tax assets if stock transactions result in limitations on the deductibility of our net operating losses or loan losses Our deferred tax assets relate primarily to net operating losses and loan loss allowances and the net operating loss carryforwards. The availability of net operating losses and loan losses to offset future taxable income would be limited if we were to undergo an “ownership change” pursuant to Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. On September 14, 2010, our Board of Directors approved an amendment to WAL’s Amendment and Restated By-laws (the “By-laws Amendment”) and an amendment to WAL’s Second Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended (the “Articles Amendment”), to prohibit certain acquisitions of the Company’s common stock. The By-Laws Amendment and Articles Amendment are intended to protect the Company’s ability to use certain tax assets, such as net operating loss carryforwards, capital loss carryforwards and certain built-in losses, by preventing stock transactions that would result in an ownership change (any such restrictions would most likely affect 5% stockholders or those persons who would seek to acquire 5% of our stock). The Articles Amendment was approved by WAL’s stockholders on November 30, 2010. Notwithstanding the restrictions implemented through the By-Laws Amendment and Articles Amendment, there can be no assurance that such restrictions will prevent all acquisitions that could result in an “ownership change” or will be upheld if challenged, or that the restrictions and any remedies or cures for violations would be respected by taxing or other authorities. Further, because such restrictions restrict a stockholder’s ability to acquire, directly or indirectly, additional shares of common stock in excess of the specified limitations, and may limit a stockholder’s ability to dispose of common stock by reducing the universe of potential acquirors for such common stock, and because a stockholder’s ownership of common stock may become subject to the Articles Amendment upon actions taken by persons related to, or affiliated with, such stockholder, the restrictions could adversely affect the marketability and market price for our stock. The downgrade of the U.S. government’s sovereign credit rating, any related rating agency action in the future, the ongoing debt crisis in Europe and the downgrade of the sovereign credit ratings for several European nations could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations On November 21, 2011, a Congressional committee that was formed to achieve $1.2 trillion in deficit reduction measures announced that it had failed to achieve its stated purpose by the deadline imposed by Congress’ August agreement to raise the U.S. government’s debt ceiling. Standard & Poor’s Rating Services, which had downgraded the U.S. government’s AAA sovereign credit rating to AA+ with a negative outlook in August 2011, affirmed its AA+ rating following the announcement. Moody’s Investors Services, which changed its U.S. government rating outlook to negative on August 2, 2011, also reaffirmed its rating following the Congressional committee’s announcement. On November 22, 2011, Fitch Ratings stated that the failure of the committee to reach an agreement would likely cause it to change its outlook on U.S. government debt to negative. Further, on November 28, 2011, Fitch stated that a downgrade of the U.S. sovereign credit rating would occur without a credible plan in place by 2013 to reduce the U.S. government deficit. The impact of any additional downgrades to the U.S. government’s sovereign credit rating by any of these rating agencies, as well as the perceived creditworthiness of U.S. government-related obligations, is inherently unpredictable and could adversely affect the U.S. and global financial markets and economic conditions and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. In addition, while we don’t have direct exposure certain European nations continue to experience varying degrees of financial stress. Despite various assistance packages, worries about European financial institutions and sovereign finances persist. On January 13, 2012, Standard & Poor’s downgraded the credit ratings of France, Italy and seven other European nations in part as a result of the failure of leaders to address systemic stresses in the Eurozone. Market 16 Table of Contents concerns over the direct and indirect exposure of European banks and insurers to these European Union nations and each other have resulted in a widening of credit spreads and increased costs of funding for some European financial institutions. Risks related to the European economic crisis have had, and are likely to continue to have, a negative impact on global economic activity and the financial markets. As these conditions persist, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The Company’s financial instruments expose it to certain market risks and may increase the volatility of reported earnings The Company holds certain financial instruments measured at fair value. For those financial instruments measured at fair value, the Company is required to recognize the changes in the fair value of such instruments in earnings. Therefore, any increases or decreases in the fair value of these financial instruments have a corresponding impact on reported earnings. Fair value can be affected by a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including our credit position, interest rate volatility, volatility in capital markets and other economic factors. Accordingly, our earnings are subject to mark-to-market risk and the application of fair value accounting may cause our earnings to be more volatile than would be suggested by our underlying performance. If the Company lost a significant portion of its low-cost deposits, it could negatively impact our liquidity and profitability The Company’s profitability depends in part on successfully attracting and retaining a stable base of low-cost deposits. While we generally do not believe these core deposits are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations, the competition for these deposits in our markets is strong and customers are increasingly seeking investments that are safe, including the purchase of U.S. Treasury securities and other government-guaranteed obligations, as well as the establishment of accounts at the largest, most-well capitalized banks. If the Company were to lose a significant portion of its low-cost deposits, it would negatively impact its liquidity and profitability. From time to time, the Company has been dependent on borrowings from the FHLB and the FRB, and there can be no assurance these programs will be available as needed As of December 31, 2011, the Company has borrowings from the FHLB of San Francisco of $280.0 million and no borrowings from the FRB. The Company in the recent past has been reliant on such borrowings to satisfy its liquidity needs. The Company’s borrowing capacity is generally dependent on the value of the Company’s collateral pledged to these entities. These lenders could reduce the borrowing capacity of the Company or eliminate certain types of collateral and could otherwise modify or even terminate its loan programs. Any change or termination would have an adverse affect on the Company’s liquidity and profitability. A decline in the Company’s stock price or expected future cash flows, or a material adverse change in our results of operations or prospects, could result in further impairment of our goodwill Since January 1, 2008, we have written off $188.5 million in goodwill. A further significant and sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization, a significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate or slower growth rates could result in additional impairment of our goodwill. If we were to conclude that a future write-down of our goodwill is necessary, then we would record the appropriate charge, which could be materially adverse to our operating results and financial position. For further discussion, see Note 7, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any reduction in the Company’s credit rating could increase the cost of funding from the capital markets Moody’s Investors Service regularly evaluates its ratings of us and our long-term debt based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. In light of the difficulties in the financial services industry and the real estate and financial markets, there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to credit downgrades. Credit ratings measure a company’s ability to repay its obligations and directly affect the cost and availability to that company of unsecured financing. Downgrades could adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital. The Company’s expansion strategy may not prove to be successful and our market value and profitability may suffer The Company continually evaluates expansion through acquisitions of banks, the organization of new banks and the expansion of our existing banks through establishment of new branches. Any future acquisitions will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions. These risks include, among other things: 1) difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel; 2) potential disruption of our ongoing business; and 3) inability of our management to maximize our financial and strategic position by the successful implementation of uniform product offerings and the incorporation of uniform technology into our product offerings and control systems. 17 Table of Contents The recent crisis also revealed and caused risks that are unique to acquisitions of financial institutions and banks, and that are difficult to assess, including the risk that the acquired institution has troubled, illiquid, or bad assets or an unstable base of deposits or assets under management. The Company expects that competition for suitable acquisition candidates may be significant. We may compete with other banks or financial service companies with similar acquisition strategies, many of which are larger and have greater financial and other resources. The Company cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify and acquire suitable acquisition targets on acceptable terms and conditions. In addition to the acquisition of existing financial institutions, the Company may consider the organization of new banks in new market areas. We do not have any current plans to organize a new bank. Any acquisition or organization of a new bank carries with it numerous risks, including the following: • the inability to obtain all the regulatory approvals; • significant costs and anticipated operating losses during the application and organizational phases, and the first years of operation of the new bank; • the inability to secure the services of qualified senior management; • the local market may not accept the services of a new bank owned and managed by a bank holding company headquartered outside of the market area of the new bank; • the inability to obtain attractive locations within a new market at a reasonable cost and • the additional strain on management resources and internal systems and controls. The Company cannot provide any assurance that it will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with acquisitions and the organization of new banks. Further, the Bank of Nevada is currently subject to a memorandum of understanding, which, among other things, imposes requirements that could limit the Bank’s ability to grow its business. See “Legal Proceedings.” Regulatory enforcement actions, like a memorandum of understanding, also may adversely affect our ability to engage in certain expansionary activities. The Company’s inability to provide resources necessary for its subsidiary banks to meet the requirements of any regulatory action or otherwise to overcome these risks could have an adverse effect on the achievement of our business strategy and maintenance of our market value. The Company may not be able to implement and improve its controls and processes, or its reporting systems and procedures, which could cause it to experience compliance and operational problems or incur additional expenditures beyond current projections, any one of which could adversely affect our financial results The Company’s future success will depend on the ability of officers and other key employees to continue to implement and improve operational, credit, financial, management and other internal risk controls and processes, and improve reporting systems and procedures, while at the same time maintaining and growing existing businesses and client relationships. We may not successfully implement such improvements in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. Such activities would divert management from maintaining and growing our existing businesses and client relationships and could require us to incur additional expenditures to expand our administrative and operational infrastructure. If we are unable to improve our controls and processes, or our reporting systems and procedures, we may experience compliance and operational problems or incur additional expenditures beyond current projections, any one of which could adversely affect our financial results. The Company’s future success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in a highly competitive market The Company faces substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our competitors, including commercial banks, community banks, savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks, credit unions, consumer finance companies, insurance companies, securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors, money market mutual funds and other financial institutions, compete with lending and deposit-gathering services offered by us. Increased competition in our markets may result in reduced loans and deposits. There is very strong competition for financial services in the market areas in which we conduct our businesses from many local commercial banks as well as numerous national and commercial banks and regionally based commercial banks. Many of these competing institutions have much greater financial and marketing resources than we have. Due to their size, many competitors can achieve larger economies of scale and may offer a broader range of products and services than us. If we are unable to offer competitive products and services, our business may be negatively affected. Some of the financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies and federally insured depository institutions. As a result, these non-bank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various services. The banking business in our primary market areas is very competitive, and the level of competition facing us may increase further, which may limit our asset growth and financial results. 18 Table of Contents The success of the Company is dependent upon its ability to recruit and retain qualified employees especially seasoned relationship bankers The Company’s business plan includes and is dependent upon hiring and retaining highly qualified and motivated executives and employees at every level. In particular, our relative success to date has been partly the result of our management’s ability to identify and retain highly qualified relationship bankers that have long-standing relationships in their communities. These professionals bring with them valuable customer relationships and have been an integral part of our ability to attract deposits and to expand our marketshare. From time to time, the Company recruits or utilizes the services of employees who are subject to limitations on their ability to use confidential information of a prior employer, to freely compete with that employer, or to solicit customers of that employer. If the Company is unable to hire or retain qualified employees it may not be able to successfully execute its business strategy. If the Company or its employee is found to have violated any nonsolicitation or other restrictions applicable to it or its employees, the Company or its employee could become subject to litigation or other proceedings. The Company would be harmed if it lost the services of any of its senior management team or senior relationship bankers We believe that our success to date has been substantially dependent on our senior management team, which includes Robert Sarver, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Kenneth Vecchione, President and Chief Operating Officer, Dale Gibbons, Chief Financial Officer, Robert R. McAuslan, Chief Credit Officer, Bruce Hendricks, Chief Executive Officer of Bank of Nevada, James Lundy, Chief Executive Officer of Western Alliance Bank, Gerald Cady, Chief Executive Officer of Torrey Pines Bank, and certain of our senior relationship bankers. We also believe that our prospects for success in the future are dependent on retaining our senior management team and senior relationship bankers. In addition to their skills and experience as bankers, these persons provide us with extensive community ties upon which our competitive strategy is based. Our ability to retain these persons may be hindered by the fact that we have not entered into employment agreements with any of them. The loss of the services of any of these persons, particularly Mr. Sarver, could have an adverse effect on our business if we cannot replace them with equally qualified persons who are also familiar with our market areas. Mr. Sarver’s involvement in outside business interests requires substantial time and attention and may adversely affect the Company’s ability to achieve its strategic plan Mr. Sarver joined the Company in December 2002 and is an integral part of our business. He has substantial business interests that are unrelated to us, including his position as managing partner of the Phoenix Suns National Basketball Association franchise. Mr. Sarver’s other business interests demand significant time commitments, the intensity of which may vary throughout the year. Mr. Sarver’s other commitments may reduce the amount of time he has available to devote to our business. We believe that Mr. Sarver spends the substantial majority of his business time on matters related to our company. However, a significant reduction in the amount of time Mr. Sarver devotes to our business may adversely affect our ability to achieve our strategic plan. Terrorist attacks and threats of war or actual war may impact all aspects of our operations, revenues, costs and stock price in unpredictable ways Terrorist attacks in the United States, as well as future events occurring in response or in connection to them including, without limitation, future terrorist attacks against United States targets, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies or military or trade disruptions, may impact our operations. Any of these events could cause consumer confidence and savings to decrease or result in increased volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy. Any of these occurrences could have an adverse impact on the Company’s operating results, revenues and costs and may result in the volatility of the market price for our securities, including our common stock, and impair their future price. The Company has received an IRS notice of proposed deficiency related to the Company’s claim of certain deductions on its 2008 tax return, in connection with the partial worthlessness of collateralized debt obligations, which deductions resulted in an approximately $37-million tax refund for the 2006 and 2007 taxable periods. The Company has since received a favorable oral decision from the IRS Appellate Conferee, which decision must be approved by the Joint Committee on Taxation before the matter is closed The Internal Revenue Service’s Examination Division issued a notice of proposed deficiency on January 10, 2011, proposing a taxable income adjustment of $136.7 million related to deductions taken on the Company’s 2008 tax return in connection with the partial worthlessness of collateralized debt obligations, or CDOs. The use of these deductions on the Company’s 2008 tax return resulted in a net operating loss carryback claim for a tax refund of approximately $40.0 million of federal taxes for the 2006 and 2007 taxable periods. The Company filed a protest of the proposed deficiency, which caused the matter to be referred to the Appeals Division of the IRS. The Appellate Conferee has conceded that our $136.7 million deduction was correct and has proposed no further adjustments. However, the case is not yet closed. Due 19 Table of Contents to the size of the refund, the Appellate Conferee was required to submit his formal written recommendation to the Joint Committee on Taxation and will close the case after receiving approval from that committee. The Company has not accrued a reserve for this potential exposure. The business may be adversely affected by internet fraud The Company is inherently exposed to many types of operational risk, including those caused by the use of computer, internet and telecommunications systems. These risks may manifest themselves in the form of fraud by employees, by customers, other outside entities targeting us and/or our customers that use our internet banking, electronic banking or some other form of our telecommunications systems. Given the growing level of use of electronic, internet-based, and networked systems to conduct business directly or indirectly with our clients, certain fraud losses may not be avoidable regardless of the preventative and detection systems in place. We may experience interruptions or breaches in our information system security We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of these information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of these information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers, including as a result of cyber attacks, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses As a financial institution, we are susceptible to fraudulent activity that may be committed against us or our clients, which may result in financial losses to us or our clients, privacy breaches against our clients, or damage to our reputation. Such fraudulent activity may take many forms, including check fraud, electronic fraud, wire fraud, phishing, and other dishonest acts. In recent periods, there has been a rise in electronic fraudulent activity within the financial services industry, especially in the commercial banking sector, due to cyber criminals targeting commercial bank accounts. Consistent with industry trends, we have also experienced an increase in attempted electronic fraudulent activity in recent periods. In addition, our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information on our computer systems and networks. Although we take numerous protective measures to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our and our clients’ information across all geographic and product lines, and endeavor to modify these protective measures as circumstances warrant, the nature of the threats continues to evolve. As a result, our computer systems, software and networks and those of our customers may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information), account takeovers, unavailability of service, computer viruses or other malicious code, cyber attacks and other events that could have an adverse security impact and result in significant losses by us and/or our customers. Despite the defensive measures we take to manage our internal technological and operational infrastructure, these threats may originate externally from third parties, such as foreign governments, organized crime and other hackers, and outsource or infrastructure-support providers and application developers, or the threats may originate from within our organization. Given the increasingly high volume of our transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they can be discovered and rectified. We also face the risk of operational disruption, failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the third parties that facilitate our business activities, including exchanges, clearing agents, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries. Such parties could also be the source of an attack on, or breach of, our operational systems, data or infrastructure. In addition, as interconnectivity with our clients grows, we increasingly face the risk of operational failure with respect to our clients’ systems. Although to date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, the outsourcing of some of our business operations, and the continued uncertain global economic environment. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. We maintain an insurance policy which we believe provides sufficient coverage at a manageable expense for an institution of our size and scope with similar technological systems. However, we cannot assure that this policy will afford coverage for all possible losses or would be sufficient to cover all financial losses, damages, penalties, including lost revenues, should we experience any one or more of our or a third party’s systems failing or experiencing attack. 20 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Banking Industry We operate in a highly regulated environment and the laws and regulations that govern our operations, corporate governance, executive compensation and accounting principles, or changes in them, or our failure to comply with them, may adversely affect us The Company is subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and legislation that governs almost all aspects of our operations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Supervision and Regulation” included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Intended to protect customers, depositors and the FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund, these laws and regulations, among other matters, prescribe minimum capital requirements, impose limitations on the business activities in which we can engage, limit the dividends or distributions that our banking institutions can pay to our holding company, restrict the ability of institutions to guarantee our parent company’s debt, impose certain specific accounting requirements on us that may be more restrictive and may result in greater or earlier charges to earnings or reductions in our capital than generally accepted accounting principles, among other things. Compliance with laws and regulations can be difficult and costly, and changes to laws and regulations often impose additional compliance costs. Further, an alleged failure by us to comply with these laws and regulations, even if we acted in good faith or the alleged failure reflects a difference in interpretation, could subject the Company to additional restrictions on its business activities, fines and other penalties, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations, capital base and the price of our securities. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, into law. The Dodd-Frank Act has had, and will continue to have, a broad impact on the financial services industry, including significant regulatory and compliance changes. Many of the requirements called for in the Dodd-Frank Act are in the process of being implemented by regulations issued by the SEC and Federal banking agencies, such as the FDIC and Federal Reserve, and will continue to be implemented over the course of several years. Given the uncertainty associated with the manner in which the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented by the various regulatory agencies and through regulations, the full extent of the impact such requirements will have on our operations is unclear. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. In particular, the potential impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our operations and activities, both currently and prospectively, include, among others: • a reduction in our ability to generate or originate revenue-producing assets as a result of compliance with heightened capital standards; • increased cost of operations due to greater regulatory oversight, supervision and examination of banks and bank holding companies, and higher deposit insurance premiums; • the limitation on our ability to raise capital through the use of trust preferred securities as these securities may no longer be included in Tier 1 capital going forward; and • the limitations on our ability to offer certain consumer products and services due to anticipated stricter consumer protection laws and regulations. Examples of these provisions include, but are not limited to: • Creation of the Financial Stability Oversight Council that may recommend to the Federal Reserve increasingly strict rules for capital, leverage, liquidity, risk management and other requirements as companies grow in size and complexity; • Application of the same leverage and risk-based capital requirements that apply to insured depository institutions to most bank holding companies, such as the Company; • Changes to the assessment base used by the FDIC to assess insurance premiums from insured depository institutions and increases to the minimum reserve ratio for the Deposit Insurance Fund, or DIF, from 1.15% to not less than 1.35%, with provisions to require institutions with total consolidated assets of $10 billion or more to bear a greater portion of the costs associated with increasing the DIF’s reserve ratio; • Repeal of the federal prohibitions on the payment of interest on demand deposits, thereby permitting depository institutions to pay interest on business transaction and other accounts; • Establishment of a consumer financial protection bureau with broad authority to implement new consumer protection regulations and, for bank holding companies with $10 billion or more in assets, to examine and enforce compliance with federal consumer laws; 21 Table of Contents • Implementation of risk retention rules for loans (excluding qualified residential mortgages) that are sold by a bank; and • Amendment of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act to, among other things, give the Federal Reserve the authority to issue rules have limiting debit-card interchange fees. In addition, under section 343 of the Dodd-Frank Act, deposits held in noninterest-bearing transaction accounts at our bank subsidiaries are fully insured by the FDIC regardless of the balance in the account through December 31, 2012. This unlimited coverage is available to all depositors and is separate from, and in addition to, the insurance coverage provided for a depositor’s other accounts held at our banks. Unless extended, the scheduled expiration on January 1, 2013 of the unlimited deposited insurance for noninterest-bearing transaction accounts may result in a loss of deposits at our banks, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Further, we may be required to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act. Failure to comply with the new requirements may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. While we cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, these changes could be materially adverse to our investors. State and federal banking agencies periodically conduct examinations of our business, including for compliance with laws and regulations, and our failure to comply with any supervisory actions to which we are or become subject as a result of such examinations may adversely affect us State and federal banking agencies periodically conduct examinations of our business, including for compliance with laws and regulations. If, as a result of an examination, the FDIC or Federal Reserve were to determine that the financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity or other aspects of any of the banks’ operations had become unsatisfactory, or that any of the banks or their management was in violation of any law or regulation, the FDIC or Federal Reserve may take a number of different remedial or enforcement actions as it deems appropriate. These actions include the power to enjoin “unsafe or unsound” practices, to require affirmative actions to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced, to direct an increase in the bank’s capital, to restrict the bank’s growth, to assess civil monetary penalties against the bank’s officers or directors, to remove officers and directors and, if the FDIC concludes that such conditions cannot be corrected or there is an imminent risk of loss to depositors, to terminate the bank’s deposit insurance. Under Nevada, Arizona and California law, the respective state banking supervisory authority has many of the same enforcement powers with respect to its state-chartered banks. Bank of Nevada has been placed under informal supervisory oversight by banking regulators in the form of a memorandum of understanding. The oversight requires enhanced supervision by the Board of Directors of the bank, and the adoption or revision of written plans and/or policies addressing such matters as asset quality, credit underwriting and administration, the allowance for loan and lease losses, loan and investment portfolio risks, asset-liability management and loan concentrations, as well as the formulation and adoption of comprehensive strategic plans. The bank is also prohibited from paying dividends or making other distributions to the Company without prior regulatory approval and is required to maintain higher levels of Tier 1 capital than otherwise would be required to be considered well-capitalized under federal capital guidelines. In addition, the Bank of Nevada is required to provide regulators with prior notice of certain management and director changes and, in certain cases, to obtain their non-objection before engaging in a transaction that would materially change its balance sheet composition. If we were unable to comply with regulatory directives in the future, or if we were unable to comply with the terms of any future supervisory requirements to which we may become subject, then we could become subject to additional supervisory actions and orders, including cease and desist orders, prompt corrective action and/or other regulatory enforcement actions. If our regulators were to take such additional supervisory actions, then we could, among other things, become subject to greater restrictions on our ability to develop any new business, as well as restrictions on our existing business, and we could be required to raise additional capital, dispose of certain assets and liabilities within a prescribed period of time, or both. Failure to implement the measures in the time frames provided, or at all, could result in additional orders or penalties from federal and state regulators, which could result in one or more of the remedial actions described above. In the event that one or more of our banks was ultimately unable to comply with the terms of a regulatory enforcement action, such a bank could ultimately fail and be placed into receivership by the chartering agency. Under applicable federal law and FDIC regulations, the failure of one of the subsidiary banks could impose liability for any loss to the FDIC or the DIF on the remaining subsidiary banks, further straining the financial resources available to the surviving charters. The terms of any such supervisory action and the consequences associated with any failure to comply therewith could have a material negative effect on our business, operating flexibility and financial condition. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our profitability, business and prospects Most of the Company’s assets and liabilities are monetary in nature, which subjects us to significant risks from changes in interest rates and can impact our net income and the valuation of our assets and liabilities. Increases or decreases in prevailing interest rates could have an adverse effect on our business, asset quality and prospects. The Company’s operating income and net income depend to a great extent on our net interest margin. Net interest margin is the difference between the interest yields we receive on loans, securities and other earning assets and the interest rates we pay on interest bearing deposits, borrowings and other liabilities. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including competition, general economic conditions and monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental 22 Table of Contents and regulatory authorities, including the Federal Reserve. If the rate of interest we pay on our interest bearing deposits, borrowings and other liabilities increases more than the rate of interest we receive on loans, securities and other earning assets increases, our net interest income, and therefore our earnings, would be adversely affected. The Company’s earnings also could be adversely affected if the rates on our loans and other investments fall more quickly than those on our deposits and other liabilities. In addition, loan volumes are affected by market interest rates on loans. Rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations while lower interest rates are usually associated with higher loan originations. Conversely, in rising interest rate environments, loan repayment rates will decline and in falling interest rate environments, loan repayment rates will increase. The Company cannot guarantee that it will be able to minimize interest rate risk. In addition, an increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. Interest rates also affect how much money the Company can lend. When interest rates rise, the cost of borrowing increases. Accordingly, changes in market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company is exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we obtain title Approximately 71% of the Company’s loan portfolio at December 31, 2011 was secured by real estate. In the course of our business, the Company may foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. These costs and claims could adversely affect our business and prospects. Risks Related to our Common Stock The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell shares of common stock owned by you at times or at prices you find attractive The price of our common stock on New York Stock Exchange constantly changes. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate and there can be no assurances about the market prices for our common stock. Our stock price may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • sales of our equity securities; • our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects; • quarterly variations in our operating results or the quality of our assets; • operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance; • announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; • the operating and securities price performance of other companies that investors believe are comparable to us; • the credit, mortgage and housing markets, the markets for securities relating to mortgages or housing, and developments with respect to financial institutions generally; • changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity or real estate valuations or volatility and other geopolitical, regulatory or judicial events; and • our past and future dividend practice. There may be future sales or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. The issuance of any additional shares of common stock or preferred stock or securities convertible into, exchangeable for or that represent the right to receive common stock or the exercise of such securities could be substantially dilutive to shareholders of our common stock. Holders of our shares of common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their stock holdings in us. 23 Table of Contents Offerings of debt, which would be senior to our common stock upon liquidation, and/or preferred equity securities which may be senior to our common stock for purposes of dividend distributions or upon liquidation, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock We may from time to time issue debt securities, borrow money through other means, or issue preferred stock. On August 25, 2010, the Company completed a public offering of $75 million in principal Senior Notes due in 2015. In 2011, we issued preferred stock to the federal government under the SBLF program, and from time to time we have borrowed money from the Federal Reserve, the FHLB, other financial institutions and other lenders. All of these securities or borrowings have priority over the common stock on a liquidation, which could affect the market price of our stock. The SBLF preferred stock also may restrict our ability to pay dividends on our common stock under certain circumstances. See Exhibits 3.8 and 3.9 attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock from time to time without any action on the part of the stockholders. Our Board of Directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any such classes or series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights, and preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends or upon our dissolution, winding-up and liquidation and other terms. If we issue preferred stock in the future that has a preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our stockholders Provisions of Nevada law and provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or have the effect of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. Additionally, our amended and restated articles of incorporation authorize our Board of Directors to issue additional series of preferred stock and such preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. These provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 