Risk Factors" described in that section, and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" as well as those discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K. We base our forward-looking statements on information currently available to us, and we assume no obligation to update them. Statements contained in this Form 10-K that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements that are subject to the "safe harbor" created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 4 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS The Company As used herein the terms "we", "us", "our," the “Registrant,” “NFES” and the "Company" means, NF Energy Saving Corporation of America, a Delaware corporation, formerly known as Diagnostic Corporation of America, Global Broadcast Group, Inc., and Galli Process, Inc. These terms also refer to our subsidiary corporation, Liaoning Nengfa Weiye Energy Technology Corporation Ltd. (“Nengfa Energy”), formerly known as Liaoning Nengfa Weiye Pipe Network Construction and Operation Co. Ltd., a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the Peoples’ Republic of China (“Neng Fa”) acquired in November 2006. NF Energy Saving Corporation of America was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in the name of Galli Process, Inc. on October 31, 2000 for the purpose of seeking and consummating a merger or acquisition with a business entity organized as a private corporation, partnership, or sole proprietorship. On December 31, 2001, Galli Process, Inc. became a majority owned subsidiary of City View TV, Inc., a Florida corporation (“City View”). On January 31, 2002, Galli Process, Inc. changed its name to Global Broadcast Group, Inc. On March 1, 2002, City View merged into Global Broadcast Group, Inc., which was the surviving entity. On November 3, 2004, the Company changed its name to Diagnostic Corporation of America. On March 15, 2007, we changed our name to NF Energy Saving Corporation of America to more accurately reflect our business after a stock exchange transaction with Neng Fa. Our principal place of business is 21-Jia Bei Si Dong Road, Tie Xi Qu, Shenyang, P. R. China 110021. Our telephone number is (8624) 2560-9750. On November 15, 2006, we executed a Plan of Exchange ("Plan of Exchange"), between and among us, Neng Fa, the shareholders of Neng Fa (the "Neng Fa Shareholders") and Gang Li, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer ("Mr. Li"). Pursuant to and at the closing of the Plan of Exchange, which occurred on November 30, 2006, we issued the Neng Fa Shareholders 12,000,000 shares of our common stock, or 89.4% of our then outstanding common stock, in exchange for all of the shares of capital stock of Neng Fa owned by the Neng Fa shareholders. Immediately upon the closing, Neng Fa became our 100% owned subsidiary, and we ceased all of our current remaining operations and adopted and implemented the business plan of Neng Fa. On September 5, 2007 we established a new sales company “Liaoning Nengfa Weiye Tie Fa Sales Co., Ltd” (“Sales Company”), a limited liability corporation organized and existing under the laws of the Peoples’ Republic of China. The sales company is a subsidiary 99% owned by Neng Fa. The sales company will market and sell the Company’s valve products in China. On January 31, 2008 to better reflect our energy technology business we changed the name of our 100% own subsidiary “Liaoning Nengfa Weiye Pipe Network Construction and Operation Co. Ltd” to “Liaoning Nengfa Weiye Energy Technology Company Ltd.” (Nengfa Energy). Nengfa Energy’s area of business include research and development, processing , manufacturing, and marketing and distribution of energy saving flow control equipment; manufacturing, marketing and distribution of energy equipment, wind power equipment and fittings; energy saving technical reconstruction; and energy saving technology consulting services. The structure of our corporate organization is as follows: 5 Business Description Nengfa Energy specializes in energy technology business. We provide energy saving technology consulting, optimization design services, energy saving reconstruction of pipeline networks and contractual energy management services for China’s electric power, petrochemical, coal, metallurgy, construction, and municipal infrastructure development industries. We are also engaged in the manufacturing and sales of the energy-saving flow control equipment. At present, our valve business holds a leading position in China. Our company has the Det Norske Veritas Management System Certificate that certifies our products conform to the Management System Standard ISO9001:2000. We have been a member of Chicago Climate Exchange since 2006. In 2007 Nengfa Energy received contracts for three sections of the prominent project “Redirect the water from the Rivers in the South to the North Middle Section Jingshi Section Water Supply Engineering Project”. This project was completed and passed inspection in 2008. In 2008 our Company also received flow control equipment contracts seven cities in Liaoning Province for their large water supply system. Our main development directions in the future include the expansion of our capabilities for technology consulting and production of equipment and pipe network for building energy efficient infrastructures for municipalities, to provide comprehensive technology solutions for regional energy conservation and emission reduction, and to conduct research and development and the manufacturing of equipment and fittings for wind power plants. Products and Services Our current products and services include energy saving technology consulting, optimization design services, energy saving reconstruction of pipeline networks and contractual energy management services for China’s electric power, water power, petrochemical, coal, metallurgy, construction, and municipal infrastructure development industries and the manufacturing and sales of energy-saving flow control equipment. 6 1. Energy Saving Reconstruction Projects 1.1 Energy-saving reconstruction of industrial boilers and cogeneration China’s industrial boilers are mainly coal-fired boilers. They represent 95% of the total boilers. The boilers are mainly layer combustion. Clockwise rotation chain boilers account for 60% of the total boilers. These boilers have the following problems: small capacities, inferior qualities, auxiliary equipment not matched properly, coal category used not matching the design, and being older equipment. These problems caused low thermal efficiency, only about 60-70%, 20% lower than the international standards. Neng Fa reconstructs the old boiler through a variety of technologies as follows: (1) Transformation of the old boiler by circulating fluidized bed combustion technology Circulating fluidized bed boiler has many advantages. They can combust low quality coal. They have higher thermal efficiency. Its ash residue can be used as building materials. According to the customers’ request, pulverized coal-fired boiler and clockwise rotation chain grate boiler can be reconstructed into circulating fluidized bed boiler using circulating fluidize combustion technology. (2) Reconstruction of control system Transformation of the control system helps to maintain the boiler in the best running state. (3) Reconstruction of coal feeding unit Reconstruction of coal feeding unit results in higher permeability of the coal seam in the boiler for the full combustion of the coal. (4) Reconstruction of the combustion system By adding combustion-supporting materials or transforming ventilation system of the boiler, it improves the efficiency of coal combustion (5) Reclaiming discharged energy from industrial waste In order to ensure the life and operating efficiency of the boiler, boilers in the running process need to regularly and systematically eliminate the waste that come with the water. We can recover at least 90% the heat emitted with the waste water for customers, by installing heat recovery equipment. (6) Reclaiming residual heat from boiler Utilizing technology to reclaim and utilize the residual heat of coal-burning boiler and the residual heat of the boiler that use natural gas and petroleum products. 1.2 Energy-saving reconstruction of steam thermal system (1) Recovery of condensed water (2) Eliminate the leakage losses of steam trap valve (3) Improve heat preservation system and eliminate leakage losses 1.3 Energy-saving reconstruction of motor drive system China’s motor drive system power consumption accounted for 2/3 of total electricity consumption of the country. About 90% of the motors are AC asynchronous motors. We can reconstruct the motor drive system, especially for variable load fans and pumps through frequency conversion and speed regulation technology. 7 1.4 Green Lighting Project China’s lighting power consumption accounted for about 12% of the overall power consumption. Energy technology improves the green lighting project by renewing the lighting power supply, rational distribution of lamps, improving the quality of power supply and on-demand control. 1.5 Energy-saving reconstruction of industrial cave and furnace China’s industrial furnace are located mainly in the iron and steel, metallurgy, building materials, machinery manufacturing, chemical industry and other high energy consumption enterprises. Their energy consumption accounts for about 10% of China’s total energy consumption. Half of the enterprises have backward technology, outdated equipment, and experiencing serious waste of energy. Our company using our existing technology can reconstruct furnace’s structure, its heat source system, combustion system, and control system. 1.6 Recovery of residual heat in industry Our company helps China’s industrial enterprises, such as steel, metallurgical, petrochemical, coal, power, chemical industry and high energy consumption enterprises to recover and utilize a variety of residual heat (waste water, etc.). The above energy-saving technological transformation measures have considerable economic benefits after their implementation. Furthermore our company’s project management team has 10 years of successful operational experience in energy-saving reconstruction projects. 2. Production and sales of energy saving flow control equipment The second line of business that accounts for a large proportion of the Company’s revenue is the production and sales of energy-saving valves, intelligent valves, and flow control equipment. The pipeline transport is one of the five basic modes of transportation together with rail transport, road transport, air transport and water transport. The water, the gas, the oil, the heat and the wind highly rely on this transportation, therefore the pipeline or the pipe network is called the energy highway. The key to the efficiency and energy conservation in the pipeline transportation process is the valve and the flow control equipment. Some experts consider the valve to be the blood vessel monitor of the city and the industry. With unique technology in this field, Nengfa Energy has already obtained seven patents, especially the bidirectional seal zero revelation instalment with its special characteristics. This type of installation will reduce energy consumption by 20% for customers and has received favourable evaluations all over the world. It is widely used in the fields of electric power, water power, petroleum, natural gas and etc. This technology was awarded “Number One Energy Saving Value of China” by the Chinese Energy Conservation Association. This product is exported to the United States, Japan, South Korea, Vietnam, India, Iraq, and Afghanistan. In 2009 the Company will continue to develop comprehensive energy conservation and emission reduction services, and the research and development and manufacturing of wind power equipment. 8 3. Comprehensive energy conservation and emission reduction services for municipalities China State Council in its 11th Five-Year Plan for 2005 to 2010 has set energy conservation and emission reduction targets to be achieved by local governments and industries. According to China’s 11th Five Year Plan, there will be a large investment in energy saving in the amount of no less than 1 trillion RMB during the 11th five year planning period. The Chinese government recently issued the Provisional Measures for Administration of the Financial Reward Capital for the Innovation of Energy-Saving Technology. The Chinese government will reward enterprises according to the total savings from their energy-saving technology projects. The Central government has set aside 7 billion RMB to support top 10 key energy saving projects. An important outcome of these regulations is that energy conservation and emission reduction will be important criteria in evaluating the performance of the leaders of local governments and large state own enterprises. Government and enterprise leaders are now motivated to undertake energy conservation and emission reduction projects to achieve their required targets. Our municipal comprehensive energy conservation and emission reduction projects focus on comprehensive energy conservation and emission reduction planning and project implementation for an entire city. These plans will be carried out by city energy auditing, energy conservation planning and using energy management contract (EMC) model to achieve efficient energy supply for the entire city. The goals of these plans are to reduce per unit energy consumption and green house gas emission. This will be a win-win for China, its municipalities and businesses. Nengfa Energy has successful experience in energy project management in China. In 2009, the Company will engage in developing comprehensive energy conservation and emission reduction projects for municipalities. 4. Equipment Manufacturing for Wind Power Plants Due to the shortage of energy resources worldwide and China being one of the largest energy consuming countries, the Chinese government in its 11th Five Year Plan of 2006 emphasized the development of wind power among energy resource development. In 2006, China has suddenly become the world’s fifth largest wind power generation market. China’s tremendous demand for wind power generation has led to a global shortage of wind power equipment components. The backlog of orders will not be filled until 2012. At present the demand greatly exceeds the supply in the wind power equipment components market. Chinese wind power equipment manufacturers are trying to occupy this market now. Those manufacturers that are well capitalized and have sufficient capacity and cutting-edge technology, and are able to provide superior service should enjoy a tremendous growth in China. Our company’s current products are international wind power equipment component market’s mainstream products, such as 1.5MW wind power equipment system (the hub, forward engine room foundation, bearing seat, and the principal axle). Our products in research and development stage include 1.5 MW and GW200 lines of wind power equipment systems. Seeing a tremendous growth potential for manufacturing wind power equipment components, Nengfa Energy will concentrate its efforts in research, development and manufacturing the wind power equipment components. The Company expects that these manufacturing projects will generate good returns for our investors. Starting in 2008, the Company began to emphasize the following three business lines: the production and sales of energy-saving valves, intelligent valves, and flow control equipments; comprehensive energy conservation and emission reduction service for municipalities; and equipment manufacturing for wind power plants Customers and Markets Our customers are mainly concentrated in the electricity generation (large-scale thermal power generation, hydroelectric power, wind power, and nuclear power), oil supply (petroleum), gas supply (natural gas), water supply, and heat supply industries. The revenues from our customers in the electricity generation and oil, gas, water and heat supplies industries accounted for over 70% of our total sales revenues. Our major customers are well-established corporations and their business relates to citizen’s day to day living. These customers form a well developed market with the potential for very steady growth for us. 9 Marketing and Sales (1) Participate in government organizations’ energy conservation and emission reduction meetings. Through government or industry association to participate in government organized energy saving conferences to meet potential energy equipment suppliers and to establish relations with Chinese large and medium size high energy consumption enterprises in order to learn the energy saving needs of these enterprises. We will also participate directly in the consulting and reconstruction services of energy conservation projects organized by government bureaus. (2) Participate directly in the bidding of customer projects to obtain contracts. (3) Rely on the marketing and after-sale service system which is formed by over forty exclusive agents all over the country to obtain contracts. Profit Models Nengfa Energy’s profit models for energy-saving reconstruction projects include the following: (1) Energy planning – diagnosis and consultation services: municipal energy planning, and energy auditing for industrial enterprises and buildings. (2) Energy reconstruction projects: mainly for industrial enterprises and buildings. (3) Sales of energy accessory equipment. (4) CDM/CCX greenhouse gas emission rights trading (Nengfa Energy is a member of the Chicago weather trading association). Raw Materials The major raw materials for our production are pig iron, steel, copper, and plastic. We source our materials locally. Nengfa Energy is located in Liaoning Province which is China’s largest production base for iron and steel. We have a very stable long term supply of raw materials. Since we are located close to the supplies of raw materials, we have the price and transportation advantages. In addition, through our advanced technology and our management of raw materials, we are able to reduce the consumption of raw materials in production, thus creating a larger gross profit. Code Compliance Products representing a majority of our sales are subject to regulatory standards and code enforcement which typically require that these products meet stringent performance criteria. Standards are established by such industry test and certification organizations as Ministry of Mechanical and Electronic Engineering of China, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (A.S.M.E.), the Canadian Standards Association (C.S.A.), the Japanese Standards Association (J.S.A.), the International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials (I.A.P.M.O.), Factory Mutual (F.M.), and Underwriters Laboratory (U.L.). These standards are incorporated into state and municipal plumbing and heating, building and fire protection codes. We maintain stringent quality control and testing procedures at each of our manufacturing facilities in order to manufacture products in compliance with code requirements. Our products are certified to conform to the ISO 9001 standards by the Det Norske Veritas Management System. 10 Competition We have a leading position in the flow control equipment production and energy saving industry in China. We plan to use marketing and new high technology product development to increase our products’ competitiveness on the market. We have successful experience in managing large energy saving projects and we strive to be a leader in comprehensive energy saving projects for municipalities and government organized large public projects. Based on our technical expertise and our leading position in manufacturing we plan to build our capabilities to meet the tremendous needs in the wind power equipment and components market in China. Research and Development In 2007 and 2008, we engaged in research and development activities to study the feasibility of using our existing facilities and equipment for the production of wind power equipment. In 2007 and 2008, we also engaged in research and development activities for the development of new products or processes including significant improvements and refinements of existing products. The Company incurred $111,030 and $370,633 of research and development costs for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Employees As of December 31, 2008, there were 210 employees including 26 management personnel working in our subsidiaries located in China. Other Our internet website address is http://www.nfenergy.com. Through our website, we make available, free of charge, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, proxy and registration statements, and all of our insider Section 16 reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. These SEC reports can be accessed through the “Investors” section of our website. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to other information included in this annual report, in evaluating NF Energy Corporation of America and our business. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Risk Related to Our Business We may be unable to maintain internal funds or obtain financing in the future Adequate financing is one of the major factors, which can affect our ability to execute our business plan in this regard. We finance our business mainly through internal funds or raising equity funds. There is no guarantee that we will always have internal funds available for future developments or we will not experience difficulties in obtaining investor financing and loans granted by financial institutions in the future, especially in light of the current global economic crises. In addition, there may be a delay in equity fundraising activities. Our access to obtain debt or equity financing depends on the banks’ willingness to lend and on conditions in the capital markets, and we may not be able to secure additional sources of financing on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. 11 We may need to raise additional capital that may not be available on terms favorable to us, if at all We may need to raise additional capital in the future, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all, especially in light of the lack of credit and investment funds in the global market due to the current global financial crises. If we cannot raise additional capital on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our services, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. To fully realize our business objectives and potential, we may require additional financing. We cannot be sure that we will be able to secure the financing we will require, or that it will be available on favorable terms. If we are unable to obtain any necessary additional financing, we will be required to substantially curtail our approach to implementing our business objectives. Additional financing may be debt, equity or a combination of debt and equity. If equity is used, it could result in significant dilution to our shareholders. Third parties may infringe our intellectual property and we may expend resources enforcing our rights or suffer competitive injury. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We may be required to spend resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. If we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our operating results. We may be unable to effectively manage our growth We will need to manage our growth effectively, which may entail devising and effectively implementing business plans, training and managing our growing workforce, managing our costs, and implementing adequate control in our reporting systems in a timely manner. We may not be able to successfully manage our growth. Our failure to do so could affect our success in executing our business plan and adversely affect our revenues, profitability and results of operations. If we fail to successfully manage our planned expansion of operations, our growth prospects will be diminished and our operating expenses could exceed budgeted amounts Our ability to offer our services in an evolving market requires an effective planning and management process. We have expanded our operations rapidly since inception, and we intend to continue to expand them in the foreseeable future. This rapid growth places significant demand on our managerial and operational resources and our internal training capabilities. In addition, we plan to increase our total work force. This growth will continue to substantially burden our management team. To manage growth effectively, we must: · implement and improve our operational, financial and other systems, procedures and controls on a timely basis; and · expand, train and manage our workforce, particularly our sales and marketing and support organizations. 12 We cannot be certain that our systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our current or future operations or that our management will be able to handle such expansion and still achieve the execution necessary to meet our growth expectations. Failure to manage our growth effectively could diminish our growth prospects and could result in lost opportunities as well as operating expenses exceeding the amount budgeted. Our operations are vulnerable to natural disasters or other events Our operating income may be reduced by natural disasters, in locations where we own and/or operate significant manufacturing facilities. Some types of losses, such as from earthquake, severe winter storms and environmental hazards, may be either uninsurable or too expensive to justify insuring against. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in any particular property, as well as any anticipated future revenue from such property. We have limited business insurance coverage in China The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products. As a result, we do not have any business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. We are controlled by a small group of our existing stockholders, whose interests may differ from other stockholders Our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Gang Li, beneficially owns approximately 50.1% of the outstanding shares of our common stock and is our largest stockholder. Our Chief Executive Officer, together with our other executive officers and members of our Board of Directors, beneficially own approximately 64.7% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Accordingly these stockholders acting together will have significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. They will also have significant influence in preventing or causing a change in control. In addition, without the consent of these stockholders, we may be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. The interests of these stockholders may differ from the interests of the other stockholders Risks Related to Our Company’s Common Stock Future sales of our common stock could adversely affect our stock price If our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. In addition, the sale of these shares could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We are listed on the OTC Bulletin Board, which can be a volatile market Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, a NASD sponsored and operated quotation system for equity securities. It is a more limited trading market than the NASDAQ Small Cap, and timely and accurate quotations of the price of our common stock may not always be available. Investors may expect trading volume to be low in such a market. Consequently, the activity of only a few shares may affect the market and may result in wide swings in price and in volume. 13 Trading of our common stock is limited, which may make it difficult for investors to sell their shares at times and prices that investors feel are appropriate Trading of our common stock has been extremely limited. This adversely effects the liquidity of our common stock, not only in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price, but also through delays in the timing of transactions and reduction in security analysts’ and the media’s coverage of us. This may result in lower prices for our common stock than might otherwise be obtained and could also result in a larger spread between the bid and asked prices for our common stock. There is a limited market for our common stock and an active trading market for our common stock may never develop Trading in our common stock has been limited and has been characterized by wide fluctuations in trading prices, due to many factors that may have little to do with a company’s operations or business prospects. Because it may be a “penny stock,” it will be more difficult for shareholders to sell shares of our common stock In addition, our common stock may be considered a “penny stock” under SEC rules because it has been trading on the OTC Bulletin Board at prices lower than $1.00. Broker-dealers who sell penny stocks must provide purchasers of these stocks with a standardized risk-disclosure document prepared by the SEC. This document provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks involved in investing in the penny-stock market. A broker must also give a purchaser, orally or in writing, bid and offer quotations and information regarding broker and salesperson compensation, make a written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser, and obtain the purchaser’s written agreement to the purchaser. Broker-dealers also must provide customers that hold penny stocks in their accounts with such broker-dealers a monthly statement containing price and market information relating to the penny stock. If a penny stock is sold to investors in violation of the penny stock rules, investors may be able to cancel the purchase and get the money back. The penny stock rules may make it difficult for investors to sell their shares of our stock, and because of these rules, there is less trading in penny stocks. Moreover, many brokers simply choose not to participate in penny-stock transactions. Accordingly, investors may not always be able to resell shares of our common stock publicly at times and at prices that investors feel are appropriate. The market price of our common stock has been and will likely continue to be volatile. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for stockholders to sell shares of our common stock when desired or at attractive prices The market price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to continue to be so. During 2006, the trading price of our common stock ranged from a low of $.51 per share to a high of $10.50 per share. During 2007, the trading price of our common stock ranged from a low of $.20 per share to a high of $.75 per share. During 2008, the trading price of our common stock ranged from a low of $.04 per share to a high of $.55 per share. On March 20, 2009, the closing price of our common stock was $.08 per share. 14 The price for our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products and media reports by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, and news reports relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions. The volatile price of our stock makes it difficult for investors to predict the value of our investment, to sell shares at a profit at any given time, or to plan purchases and sales in advance. We will not be able to control many of these factors, and we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results will not necessarily be indicative of our future performance In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that may have been unrelated and disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Because we have not paid and do not plan to pay dividends, investors will not realize any income from an investment in our common stock unless and until investors sell their shares at profit We did not pay dividends on our common stock in 2008, and we do not anticipate paying any dividends in the near future. Investors should not rely on an investment in our stock if they require dividend income. Further, investors will only realize income on an investment in our stock in the event they sell or otherwise dispose of their shares at a price higher than the price they paid for their shares. Such a gain would result only from an increase in the market price of our common stock, which is uncertain and unpredictable. We intend to retain all of our earnings for use in our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the near future The payment of any future dividends will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend upon a number of factors, including future earnings, the success of our business activities, general financial condition, future prospects, general business conditions and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant. Risk Related to the People’s Republic of China All of our current prospects and deals are generated in mainland China; thus all of our revenues are derived from our operations in the PRC. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant extent, to economic, political and legal developments in the PRC. Political, economic and social policies of the PRC government could affect our business. All of our business, operating assets, fixed assets and operations are located in China, and all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our business may be adversely affected by changes in political, economic or social conditions in China, adjustments in PRC government policies or changes in laws and regulations. 15 We may suffer currency exchange losses if the RMB depreciates relative to the US Dollar Our reporting currency is the US Dollar. However, substantially all of our revenues are denominated in RMB. In July 2005, China reformed its exchange rate regime by establishing a managed floating exchange rate regime based on market supply and demand with reference to a basket of currencies. The RMB is no longer pegged to the US dollar and the exchange rate will have some flexibility. Hence, considering the floating exchange rate regime, if the RMB depreciates relative to the US Dollar, our revenues as expressed in our US Dollar financial statements will decline in value. On May 19, 2007, the People’s Bank of China announced a policy to expand the maximum daily floating range of RMB trading prices against the U.S. dollar in the inter-bank spot foreign exchange market from 0.3% to 0.5%. While the international reactions to the RMB revaluation and widening of the RMB’s daily trading band have generally been positive, with the increased floating range of the RMB’s value against foreign currencies, the RMB may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar or other foreign currencies in the long term, depending on the fluctuation of the basket of currencies against which it is currently valued. In addition, there are very limited hedging transactions available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure, if at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into US Dollars. Changes in PRC Corporate Income Tax Law may affect our effective tax for 2008 and beyond In March 2007, the Chinese government enacted the Corporate Income Tax Law, and promulgated related regulations, which were effective January 1, 2008. The Corporate Income Tax Law, among other things, imposes a unified income tax rate of 25% for both domestic and foreign invested enterprises. The previous income tax laws and rules, which stipulated income tax rates for domestic and foreign invested enterprises at different rates, expired upon the effectiveness of the Corporate Income Tax Law. The Corporate Income Tax Law provides a five-year transitional period for those entities established before March 16, 2007, which enjoyed a favorable income tax rate of less than 25% under the previous income tax laws and rules, to gradually change their rates to 25%. In addition, the Corporate Income Tax Law provides grandfather treatment to allow foreign invested enterprises to continue to enjoy their unexpired tax holiday under the previous income tax laws and rules. The Corporate Income Tax Law also imposes a 10% withholding income tax for dividends distributed by a foreign invested enterprise to its immediate holding company outside China, which were exempted under the previous income tax laws and rules. A lower withholding tax rate will be applied if there is a tax treaty arrangement between mainland China and the jurisdiction of the foreign holding company. Holding companies in Hong Kong, for example, will be subject to a 5% rate. All of these foreign invested enterprises will be subject to the withholding tax on January 1, 2008. Since we intend to reinvest our earnings to further expand our businesses in mainland China, we do not intend to declare dividends in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, as of December 31, 2008, we have not recorded any withholding tax on the retained earnings of our foreign invested subsidiary in China. The Corporate Income Tax Law emphasizes the requirement of an arm’s length basis for transfer pricing arrangements between related parties. Also, it requires enterprises with related party transactions to prepare transfer pricing documentation which includes the basis for determining pricing, the computation methodology and detailed explanations. Under a tax inspection by tax authorities, if our transfer pricing arrangements between the China-based subsidiaries are judged as tax avoidance, or related documentation does not meet the requirements of the Corporate Income Tax Law, our China-based subsidiaries may be subject to tax adjustments and late payment interest. 16 Our China subsidiary Nengfa Energy being a foreign invested enterprise currently enjoys a two year exemption from corporate income tax for 2007-2008 and a reduced corporate income rate of 15% for the following three years from 2009-2011. If we cannot continue to enjoy the unexpired tax holidays and reduced corporate tax rate or if the withholding tax on dividends is applied to our business, our effective tax rate will be increased significantly. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protections available to us and you, or could lead to penalties on us The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the PRC Government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past 25 years has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in Mainland China. Our PRC operating subsidiary, Nengfa Energy, a wholly foreign-owned enterprises (“WFOEs”), is subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in the PRC in general and laws and regulations applicable to WFOEs in particular. It may be difficult to enforce any civil judgments against us or our board of directors or officers, because most of our operating and/or fixed assets are located outside of the United States Although we are incorporated in the State of Delaware, most of our operating and fixed assets are located in the PRC. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to enforce judgments outside the United States obtained in actions brought against us in the United States, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States or of the securities laws of any state of the United States. In addition, certain of our directors and officers (principally based in the PRC) and all or a substantial portion of their assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon those directors and officers, or to enforce against them or us judgments obtained in United States courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States or of the securities laws of any state of the United States. We have been advised by our PRC counsel that, in their opinion, there is doubt as to the enforceability in the PRC, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of United States courts, of civil liabilities predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States or the securities laws of any state of the United States. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 