Risk Factors.” PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS The Company As used herein the terms “we”, “us”, “our,” “NFEC” and the “Company” means, NF Energy Saving Corporation, a Delaware corporation, formerly known as NF Energy Saving Corporation of America, Diagnostic Corporation of America, Global Broadcast Group, Inc., and Galli Process, Inc. These terms also include our subsidiaries, Liaoning Nengfa Weiye Energy Technology Company Ltd., a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the Peoples’ Republic of China (“PRC”), and Liaoning Nengfa Weiye Tie Fa Sales Co., Ltd., a limited liability corporation organized and existing under the laws of the PRC. NF Energy Saving Corporation was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware under the name of Galli Process, Inc. on October 31, 2000 for the purpose of seeking and consummating a merger or acquisition with a business entity organized as a private corporation, partnership, or sole proprietorship. On December 31, 2001, Galli Process, Inc. became a majority owned subsidiary of City View TV, Inc., a Florida corporation (“City View”). On February 7, 2002, Galli Process, Inc. changed its name to Global Broadcast Group, Inc. On March 1, 2002, City View merged into Global Broadcast Group, Inc., which was the surviving entity. On November 12, 2004, the Company changed its name to Diagnostic Corporation of America. On March 15, 2007, we changed our name to NF Energy Saving Corporation of America, and on August 24, 2009, the Company further changed its name to NF Energy Saving Corporation, in both instances to more accurately reflect our business after the Plan of Exchange (see below). Our principal place of business is 21-Jia Bei Si Dong Road, Tie Xi Qu, Shenyang, P. R. China 110021. Our telephone number is (8624) 2560-9750. 3 On November 15, 2006, we executed a Plan of Exchange (“Plan of Exchange”), among the Company, Liaoning Nengfa Weiye Pipe Network Construction and Operation Co. Ltd. (“Nengfa”), the shareholders of Nengfa (the "Nengfa Shareholders") and Gang Li, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (“Mr. Li”). At the closing of the Plan of Exchange, which occurred on November 30, 2006, we issued to the Nengfa Shareholders 12,000,000 shares of our common stock, or 89.4% of our then outstanding common stock, in exchange for all of the shares of capital stock of Nengfa owned by the Nengfa Shareholders. Immediately upon the closing, Nengfa became our 100% owned subsidiary, and the Company adopted and implemented the business plan of Nengfa. On September 5, 2007, we established a new sales company, Liaoning Nengfa Weiye Tie Fa Sales Co., Ltd. (“Sales Company”). Sales Company is a subsidiary, which is 99% owned by Liaoning Nengfa Weiye Energy Technology Company Ltd. Sales Company engages in the sales and marketing of flow control equipments and products in PRC. On January 31, 2008, to better reflect our energy technology business we changed the name of Nengfa to Liaoning Nengfa Weiye Energy Technology Company Ltd. (“Nengfa Energy”). Nengfa Energy’s area of business includes research and development, processing, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of energy saving flow control equipment; manufacturing, marketing and distribution of energy equipment, wind power equipment and fittings; energy saving technical reconstruction; and energy saving technology consulting services. On August 26, 2009, the Company completed a 3 to 1 reverse share split of its common stock. As a result, the total number of shares of outstanding common stock changed from 39,872,704 pre-split to 13,291,387 post-split. On December 11 and December 15, 2009, there were certain warrant exercises on a cashless basis that resulted in the issuance of an additional 24,099 shares of our common stock, and thus the total number of shares of outstanding common stock increased from 13,291,387 to 13,315,486 The structure of our corporate organization is as follows: Business Description Nengfa Energy specializes in the energy technology business. We provide energy saving technology consulting, optimization design services, energy saving reconstruction of pipeline networks and contractual energy management services for China’s electric power, petrochemical, coal, metallurgy, construction, and municipal infrastructure development industries. We are also engaged in the manufacturing and sales of the energy-saving flow control equipment. At present, our valve business holds a leading position in China. Our company has the Det Norske Veritas Management System Certificate, which certifies that our products conform to the Management System Standard ISO9001:2000. We have been a member of Chicago Climate Exchange since 2006. In 2007 Nengfa Energy received contracts for our products and services to be used in three sections of the prominent project “Redirect the water from the Rivers in the South to the North water supply engineering project, Middle Section- Jingshi Section”. This phase of the project was completed and passed inspection in 2008. In 2008, the Company also received flow control equipment contracts from seven cities in Liaoning Province for their water supply systems. In 2009, the Company was awarded several flow control equipment supply contracts, including one for the Xijiang diversion project of Guandong Province, and one for Phase 1 of Guangdong Yuedian Huilai Power Plant. 4 Our principal development focus is to complete the construction of our new energy manufacturing facility which will enhance the Company’s product lines and expand the manufacturing capacity. In conjunction with the planned facility expansion, we also will undertake efforts to optimize the business structure of the Company, develop other low-carbon technologies, and promote energy-saving technologies efficiency as part of our sales efforts. We are aiming to become the navigator of the small to medium sized energy saving service industry by integrating sources in new energy and energy conservation and environmental protection. 5 Products and Services Our products and services include the manufacturing and sales of energy-saving flow control equipment, energy saving technology consulting, optimization design services, energy saving reconstruction of pipeline networks and contractual energy management services for China’s electric power, water power, petrochemical, coal, metallurgy, construction, and municipal infrastructure development industries. Production and Sales of Energy Saving Flow Control Equipment The Company’s current principal business is the production and sale of energy-saving valves, intelligent valves, and flow control equipment. This business currently accounts for the majority of the Company’s revenues. Pipeline transport is one of the basic modes of transportation together with rail transport, road transport, air transport and water transport. Water, gas, oil, and heat rely on various kinds of pipelines and pipe networks to be transported to end users. In the case of water pipelines, such systems are also used for public health and safety, waste and flood control. The key to the efficiency and energy conservation of the pipeline transportation process is the valve and the flow control equipment. Having unique technology in this field, Nengfa Energy has obtained a number of patents and applied for other patents in China for flow control devices, especially in the area of the bidirectional seal zero revelation installation system with its special characteristics. Using valves of this type can result in reduced energy consumption by 20% for customers and has received favorable evaluations throughout the world. The reduced energy consumption thereby increases the efficiency of the pipeline system. It is widely used in the fields of electric power, hydro power, petroleum, and natural gas. The Nengfa Energy valves were awarded “Number One Energy Saving Value of China” by the Chinese Energy Conservation Association. These products currently are exported to the United States, Japan, South Korea, Vietnam, India, Iraq, and Afghanistan. Because these technologies are an important revenue source and represent an important part of the energy efficiency focus of the Company, Nengfa Energy will continue to develop comprehensive energy conservation and reduction equipment and services, and to pursue research and development and manufacturing of flow control and new energy related equipment. Energy Saving Reconstruction Projects We also have a business focus on the reconstruction of various industrial boiler/furnace systems with the objective of modernization and overall efficiency improvement of existing systems. Efficiency can be expressed in several ways, such as lower operating costs, reduced energy consumption, recapture of by-products which can be used for other purposes, and pollution reduction. China’s industrial boilers and furnaces are used mainly in the iron and steel, metallurgy, building materials, machinery manufacturing, chemical industry and other high energy consumption industries. Their energy consumption accounts for about 10% of China’s total energy consumption. Half of the enterprises have outdated technology and equipment, and experience serious waste of energy. Using our existing technology, we can reconstruct the boiler’s or furnace’s structure, its heat source system, combustion system, and control system, and thereby both improve the overall efficacy of the system and yield important conservation and pollution control benefits. One of the most important opportunities for the Company is to undertake projects that refurbish or reconstruct industrial boilers and create cogeneration opportunities for coal fired boilers. In the PRC, 95% of the industrial boilers are coal fired. The effect of these types of boilers in the industrial setting is that they are very inefficient because they have the following problems: (i) they typically have smaller capacities than required for the purpose for which they are employed, (ii) their output is not matched to the auxiliary equipment used by the boilers, (iii) they use fuel that is not optimized for the size and design of the boiler, and (iv) the boilers are typically at or beyond their estimated useful life. Overall, it is estimated that these types of boilers are operating at about 60-70% of their efficiency, which is 20% below that of international standards. The inefficiency, in part, results from their use of mixed sizes of coal particles in layer combustion. Among these types of boilers, about 60% of them are clockwise rotation boilers. The use of the differing sizes of the coal particles results in a highly inefficient combustion, due to the poor ventilation for the combustion to be effective and the accumulation of dust which chokes the combustion. Therefore, the coal is not totally burned and there is a loss of potential energy. The current methods of coal feed to the boilers and the current combustion cannot solve this problem. Given the large quantities of these types of industrial boilers in use, the Company sees a tremendous opportunity to focus on boiler transformation technology and projects. 6 The Nengfa Energy solution is to redesign and reconstruct elements of an existing boiler or boiler system to improve its overall performance and increase its optimization rates. This is done in a number of different ways, such as the following: a) Boilers using a pulverized coal fired or a clockwise rotation chain grate system can be refitted with a circulating fluidized bed combustion technology. This change has the benefit of permitting the boiler to use a lower grade of coal but improve the thermal efficiency. The ash from the fluidized bed combustion system can be used in building materials, which is a valuable by-product and reduces pollution output. b) The control system of a boiler can be either reconstructed or modified to improve the operations of the unit and system. c) The coal feed system of a boiler system can be altered to provide more efficient coal layer arrangement according to different volume and nature of the coal , with the effect that the boiler will fully combust the coal. This improves the operating cost and fuel optimization. d) Another change that can be made to boilers is to improve the ventilation system, with the result that the combustion of the fuel is improved, efficiency is increased and operating costs are reduced. e) One of the most important improvements that the Company seeks to introduce into existing and into new boiler systems are methods to reclaim discharged water. The Company designs recovery equipment which permits recovery of significant amounts of the waste water used in a traditional boiler. This recovery can also improve the capture of pollutants by the boiler system. f) Another important improvement is heat recovery of a boiler, whether it is coal, natural gas or petroleum fueled. By-product heat can be used in a number of different ways, such as to create steam for other uses or localized heating of the factory. The further use of the residual heat reduces its emission into the atmosphere, thereby reducing heat pollution. This can be an additional source of income or help reduce operating costs. Nengfa Energy is capable of designing and introducing steam thermal systems into existing systems with the effect of recovering the condensed water, eliminating the leakage losses due to faulty or worn steam trap valves and improving the heat preservation systems. Another area of energy savings is the reconstruction of motor drive systems. In China, motor drive systems use about two thirds of the total electricity consumption of the country. About 90% of these motors are AC asynchronous motors. Nengfa Energy redesigns such systems to convert them so that they can be used for variable load fans and pumps through frequency conversion and speed regulation technology. NF Energy focuses on the reconstruction and energy conservation on the fans of power station boilers, industrial furnaces and kilns, and the energy-saving pumps in the cold/hot water pipe system. As we analyze whole industrial project reconstruction projects, we can also provide power conservation reconstruction in solid material conveyor systems used in the mining, metallurgy, iron and steel industries. Approximately 12% of China’s power consumption is for lighting. As one of the most important energy-saving projects, the Chinese government plans to popularize 150 million energy-saving lamps to the whole country during the "Eleventh Five Year Plan" period through a fiscal subsidy in an effort to replace the inefficient incandescent lamps and other lighting products. The government also plans to reduce the consumption of power by changing the use of lighting through a rational distribution of public lighting, improving the quality of power consumption and introducing on-demand controls. Between 2008 and 2009, Nengfa Energy, as one of the assigned companies by the National Development and Reform Commission, distributed 2.5 million green lighting products in Liaoning Province China. A new business for the Company is biomass power generation projects. The Company cooperates actively with different levels of municipal governments, corporations and strategic partners, to jointly develop potential projects in this area. At present, the Company is discussing with a municipality a biomass central gas supply project to a county. This project will use the slurry from local chicken farms and straw to generate gas and establish a city gas pipeline supply system. The Company believes that the above energy-saving technological transformation measures have considerable economic benefits after their implementation to the end-user. As noted, the benefits are not only in the improved operations, but are also reflected in cleaner operations, pollution reduction, and lower energy consumption and costs. Some of these elements also can also make a company eligible to receive pollution credits, which can add directly to the bottom line of operations of a plant. Additionally, the by-products may also provide a source of additional income. 7 Comprehensive Energy Conservation And Emission Reduction Services For Municipalities China State Council, in its 11th Five-Year Plan for 2005 through 2010, set energy conservation and emission reduction targets to be achieved by local governments and industries. These initiatives effect the policy decisions of the national and local governments. It is expected that the next five year plan of the China State Council will expand the initial objectives for environmental improvement in China, with increased funding, more stringent objectives and greater breadth in green initiatives. 2010 is the last year of the "Eleventh Five-Year" emission reduction targets. It is also the first year for China to put forward its 40-45% emission reduction target, which is a point of emphasis for the Chinese government. Mr. Zhang Shaochun, the Vice Minister of Finance for the central government, has stated that the special funding for the energy-saving emission reduction industry will be 70% more than the prior year, which will be up to 500 billion RMB. The state intends to promote large-scaled energy-saving and efficiency products and will support key energy-saving emission reduction projects. In a 2010 government report from the office of the Chinese Premier, Wen Jiabao, it was stated that: "We shall put greater efforts on development of low-carbon technologies, promotion of efficient energy-saving technologies, and actively develop new energy and renewable energy…." The report further stated that the country "…should attempt to engage in construction characterized by industrial carbon emissions system and consumption patterns.” This indicates that in 2010 and thereafter low carbon initiatives "…will become a new impetus and engine for economic development, and it will become a new weathervane for construction of leading industrial systems and consumption patterns.” The Ministry of Finance is increasing investment in the development of a low-carbon economy. The government sees promotion of energy-efficiency resulting in economic benefits and promoting growth in higher value technologies and industries. Therefore the expectation is that government support for energy saving projects will be widespread and touch on many aspects of the economy, including geo-water sources, energy management contracts, efficient motors and other energy-saving elements in the industry. This will promote the development of energy efficiency, industrial energy efficiency and energy-efficient power transmission and distribution. Nengfa Energy already has experience in energy project management in China. Going forward, the Company will further develop its business model and regularly will seek projects to develop comprehensive energy conservation and emission reduction solutions for building energy conservation. Wind Power Systems An important part of the Chinese government’s 11th Five Year Plan is to encourage the development of wind power as a significant source of energy for the country. This is due in part to the growing recognition that fossil fuels are becoming more difficult to locate and develop. Such fuel is becoming more expensive as it becomes subject to greater world-wide demand, and China will become one of the largest energy consuming countries as its industrial output increases and the standard of living of its population improves. To address this potential market opportunity, the Company conducted research during 2007 and 2008 into wind production equipment and concluded that it could effectively compete in this segment of the energy industry. To that end the Company designed and is building a production facility to produce new energy equipment. This facility is expected to be operational in the second quarter 2010. The current product includes a 1.5MW wind power equipment system (the hub, forward engine room foundation, bearing seat, and the principal axle). The planned facility is anticipated to have the capacity to provide 300 sets of wind power equipment of this configuration per year. We believe that the market for the equipment will be both to users in China and to users in different countries. Cooperation and Technology Agreements General Electric Alliance Nengfa Energy signed a Strategic Cooperation Agreement with GE Enterprise Development (Shanghai) Co. LTD ("GE") in July 2009. The GE technology which Nengfa Energy will employ in the blast furnace waste recovery project at the Iron & Steel Co. is a proven technology which differs from other types of waste heat recovery technologies because it is capable of using the low heating value blast furnace waste flue gas to produce steam for electric power generation. If not for the GE technology, blast furnace flue gas with low heating value would either be let go into the open air, causing pollution and leaving the heat unused, or have to be mixed for power generation with the flue gas from coking furnaces, which contains higher heating value and other usable chemicals. The GE waste heat to power technology is applicable in most steel plants in China and Nengfa Energy's project of using the GE technology in the Iron & Steel Co. creates a cooperative relationship between Nengfa Energy and GE with great opportunities for duplicating the success into many other Chinese steel mills. 8 Recently, the Company and GE jointly approached a company with the intention of implementing a bio-mass power generation project by using cow dung, chicken manure, pig manure and other biomass. Global Environmental Facility (GEF) / World Bank (WB) / National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) The GEF/WB/NDRC China Energy Conservation Promotion Project began in 1997. It was sponsored by the GEF--the Global Environmental Facility and implemented by the World Bank in cooperation with the Chinese government. The project's goal is to help China promote energy conservation and energy efficiency with a free market mechanism—the “Energy Performance Contract,” which has been successful in Western developed countries. The senior managers of Nengfa Energy, especially Mr. Gang Li and Mrs. Lihua Wang, have more than ten years of experience in leading one of the pilot and demonstration companies of the GEF/WB/NDRC China Energy Conservation Promotion Project, and have succeeded in achieving investment, energy saving and environmental protection objectives in more than 200 major industrial energy efficiency enhancement projects. Nengfa Energy has developed a full range risk assessment and mitigation system for energy efficiency projects, from energy saving potential assessment, customer credit evaluation, technical solution design, technology and product procurement, engineering construction quality control, project operation management, to project financing and payment collection. Nengfa Energy's experience in energy efficiency project profit maximization and risk mitigation have been used as training materials by China Energy Management Companies Association (EMCA) in its training programs for new energy service companies. Municipal Government of Zibo City, Shandong Province Nengfa Energy signed an Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction Cooperation Framework Agreement with the municipal government of Zibo City, Shandong Province in November 2009. The two parties plan to set up a joint venture in Zibo City with total investment of RMB100 million. The joint venture’s main business is carrying on energy saving projects through an Energy Management Contract (“EMC”) basis, i.e. including energy saving planning, consulting, energy auditing, providing energy saving solutions, engineering design, project financing, project management, energy saving technology development and production of energy saving products. Osaka Gas, Japan In July 2007, Nengfa Energy signed an agreement with Osaka Gas, Japan on an experimental project of concentration technology of low concentration coal bed methane in a Mining Administration Bureau, China. The project has continued for two years and is expected to obtain provincial and national identification on its energy conservation performance in 2010. After which, the technology will be promoted in domestic coal companies. The explored reserve of coal bed methane in China is 0.1 trillion cubic meters, but only 2.3 billion cubic meters are pumped from coal mines, within which, only about 40% is utilized and the rest, about 60% of low concentration coal bed methane, is wasted due to technology constraints. Therefore, the Company believes that using low concentration coal bed methane in power generation has a large market potential. It is expected that Nengfa Energy will be engaged in these projects in the future. However, there is no assurance that Nengfa Energy will be the project partner at this time. Schneider Electric SA Nengfa Energy signed a cooperation agreement with Schneider Electric (China) Investment Co., Ltd. in 2008 to establish a strategic partnership to develop integrated energy saving and reconstruction projects. Schneider Electric is responsible for project development, and Nengfa Energy provides energy saving and reconstruction solutions regarding the heat, water and cooling systems, and is the project contractor of these reconstruction projects in China. Patents and Technology Nengfa Energy currently has been issued two invention patents and has applied for eleven new patents in the PRC. We rely on our patents and pending patents for market differentiation and to compliment our ability to bid on and win contracts for the large industrial projects in which we typically participate. We expend a certain amount of time and economic resources in developing and maintaining our leading position in the flow valve industry. The invention patents include the following: a) Processing technology of butterfly valve seal (ZL2006 1 0152644.8), which expires on September 26, 2026; and 9 b) Butterfly valve body dynamic seal ring pointing device (ZL2007 1 0159250.X), which expires on December 28, 2027. The patents that we have applied for include the following: a) An energy-saving heat-sink used in heating (ZL2008 2 0218146.3), with an application date of September 23, 2008 b) A device used in energy-saving boiler combustion ( ZL2008 2 0218145.9), with an application date of September 23, 2008; c) Butterfly valve sealing ring instruction device (ZL2007 2 0185293.0), with an application date of December 12, 2007; d) Butterfly valve with block for opening butterfly plate (ZL2007 2 0185289.4), with an application date of December 12, 2007; e) Piston flow-adjusting valve with removable piston sealing ring (ZL2007 2 0185288.X), with an application date of December 12, 2007; f) J-shaped large dimension butterfly valve hard sealing ring (ZL2007 2 0185292.6), with an application date of December 12, 2007; g) Composite valve sealing ring (ZL2007 2 0185290.7), with an application date of December 12, 2007; h) Multi-level buffering full oriented valve fuel tank (ZL2007 2 0185287.5), with an application date of December 12, 2007; i) Fluid control valve on-off speed control device (ZL2007 2 0185286.0), with an application date of December 12, 2007; j) T-shaped large dimension butterfly valve rubber sealing ring (ZL2007 2 0185291.1), with an application date of December 12, 2007; and k) Butterfly valve with butterfly plate adjusting device (ZL2008 2 0231340.5), with an application date of September 23, 2008; In addition to the patent protection that we seek, we also rely on the confidentiality of our operations, proprietary know-how and business secrets. Although we do not have formal agreements with our employees, we do consider our employees work to be proprietary and owned by the Company. Where necessary, we will take steps to protect our intellectual property interests under the laws of the PRC. There can be no assurance that we will be able to enforce our rights if they are improperly taken by our employees or adopted by our competitors outside of sanctioned use and royalty agreements with the Company. Certain of our service offerings will not be patentable or otherwise registrable as intellectual property. Therefore, the Company will rely solely on such services being proprietary. As such the Company will have to rely on the services being more advanced or better than its competitors’ offerings or rely on trade secret laws and protections. Such protections in the PRC are considered rather weak and are difficult if not impossible to enforce. Consequently, it may be possible for our competitors to obtain our information and to copy, adopt or adapt our methods, services and technical aspects to their own business with no assurance that we will be able to prevent them from using the intellectual property in competition with us. The Company does not have any significant trademarks in use at this time. As our business develops, we will consider the advantage of developing specific trademarks for our products and services and seeking registration of those marks with the PRC government authorities for their protection. 10 Markets and Customers The South-North Water Diversion Project is a multi-decade project undertaken by the Chinese government to better utilize water resources available to China. Part of this massive project was brought forward to provide additional water supply for the 2008 Olympics in Beijing. While the main task is to divert water from the Yangtze River to the Yellow River and Hai River, other spin-off plans are also loosely included. Among these, a plan calling for the capture and diversion of water from Brahmaputra River, located in Yarlung Zangbo Grand Canyon north of India, has been under study for years. This is because the heavily industrialized Northern China has a much lower rainfall and its rivers are running at reduced rates as demand increases for industrial water and general population usage. For example, the Yellow River and Hai River have experienced significant flow reduction and at times during certain years have been dried. Currently, the Grand Canal is being upgraded, as the Eastern route for diverting water to the North. Water from the Yangtze River will be drawn into the canal in Jiangdu City, where a giant 400 m³/s. pumping station was built in the 1980s, and will then be fed uphill by pumping stations along the Grand Canal and through a tunnel under the Yellow River, from where it can flow downhill to reservoirs near Tianjin. Construction on the eastern route officially began in December 2002, and water is supposed to reach Tianjin by 2012. The central route for the water diversion project is from Danjiangkou Reservoir on Han River, a tributary of the Yangtze River, to Beijing. This route is built on the North China Plain and, once the Yellow River has been crossed, water can flow all the way to Beijing by gravity. The main engineering challenge is to build a tunnel under the Yellow River. Construction on the central route began in 2004. In 2008 the 307 km-long Northern stretch of the central route was completed at a cost of $2 billion. Water in that stretch of the canal does not yet come from the Han River, but from various reservoirs in Hebei Province south of Beijing. Farmers and industries in Hebei have had to cut back their water consumption to allow for water to be transferred to Beijing. The whole project was expected to be completed around 2010. This has recently been set back to 2014 to allow for more environmental protection elements to be built into the system. A major difficulty in completion of the central route has been the resettlement of approximately 250,000 persons around Danjiangkou Reservoir and along the route. Another consideration that has to be accommodated in the implementation of the central route is the effect of removing approximately one third of the water from Han River and the effect of that reduction on the environment and other users that currently depend on the Han River. One long-term consideration to reduce the effect on the Han River basin is to build another canal to divert water from the Three Gorges Dam to Danjiangkou Reservoir. The western route for the water diversion project is to divert water from the headwaters of the Yangtze River into the headwaters of the Yellow River. In order to move the water through the drainage divide between these rivers, huge dams and long tunnels are needed to be built to cross the Tibetan-Qinghai and Western Yunnan Plateaus. The feasibility of this route is still under study and this part of the project will not start anytime soon. To date, the Company has participated in the water diversion project by being a supplier of valves for various parts of the water flow infrastructure. And as part of providing that equipment, the Company has also provided design and related services. Contracts related to this project represented approximately 29.45% of the gross revenue of the Company for 2009. We anticipate that revenues related to this project will continue to represent a significant portion of the Company revenues for 2010. The Company intends to continue to provide long term after-sale and consultant services in connection with such contracts. In addition to the water diversion project, the Company also supplies valves and related equipment to the power generation industry (thermal, hydroelectric, wind and nuclear). Customers in these market segments are well-established, larger state and private corporations. Combined, these markets represent approximately 70.55 % of the revenues of the Company for 2009. In connection with its work on the water diversion project and some of the power plan projects, the Company has a preferred provider agreement with Nengfa Weiye Tieling Valve Joint Stock Co., Ltd. (“Tieling Valve”) under which Nengfa Energy is the preferred provider of the valves and other related flow control equipment that Tieling Valve required in its own work on the water diversion project. The agreement is in the manner of a right of first refusal whereby Tieling Valve is obliged to offer supply opportunities to Nengfa Energy within its scope of product offerings and expertise, but Tieling Valve is not prohibited from developing other supply arrangements. Tieling Valve and Nengfa Energy have agreed to cooperate to develop and market their respective technologies, equipment, products and services for their respective and mutual benefit, and will work together to examine and expand their respective businesses. Under the agreement, each party retains full right to their respective intellectual property. The agreement terminates in 2013, but by its terms will automatically extend for additional one year terms unless notice of termination is given by one party to the other at least six months prior to the then termination date. The Company will focus its marketing to the wind power generation and the boiler/furnace industry through participation in and addressing government organizations and industry associations related to energy conservation and emission reduction. Marketing will also focus on equipment suppliers and end-users such as the larger and medium sized high energy consumption enterprises that provide or use the kinds of products and services that the Company currently offers or plans to offer. The focus will not only be to sell the products and services, but also to learn of the customers needs so that the Company can develop and adapt its products and services to the needs of its customer base. Another important aspect of the marketing strategy will be to participate directly in the consulting and reconstruction services of energy conservation projects organized by government agencies. Nevertheless, the Company plans to continue to participate in the bidding process for government projects, in an effort to enhance its market position. 11 The Company’s marketing and sales strategy also relies on the use of exclusive agents throughout China who act as marketing agents and after sale service providers. The Company currently has 23 exclusive agents national wide. At certain times each year, the Company provides and organizes training sessions for these agents and their personnel. These sessions provide the Company with a valuable opportunity to gather feedback and to foster an exchange of technical ideas. These agents have agreements with the Company to sell NF flow control equipments and systems, and they are managed by the Sales Company. The Company evaluates the productivity of these exclusive agents annually, based on how well they achieve the annual sales target established by the Company. The Company typically will terminate its agreement with those agents that miss the sales targets. Raw Materials The major raw materials for our production are pig iron, steel, copper, and plastic. We source our materials locally in China. Nengfa Energy is located in Liaoning Province which is China’s largest production base for iron and steel. We have stable long term supply arrangements for our principal raw materials based on long standing business relationships. Since we are located close to the supplies of many of our essential raw materials, we enjoy price and transportation cost advantages over our competitors and competing users. Through our advanced technology and our management of raw materials, we are able to manage and improve our consumption rates of the raw materials we use in production, which results in lower operating expense and extension of our inventories. Regulatory Compliance The products that represent a majority of our sales are subject to regulatory standards and code enforcement which typically require that these products meet stringent performance criteria. Standards are established by industry testing and certification organizations such as the Ministry of Mechanical and Electronic Engineering of China, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (A.S.M.E.), the Canadian Standards Association (C.S.A.), the Japanese Standards Association (J.S.A.), the International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials (I.A.P.M.O.), Factory Mutual (F.M.), and Underwriters Laboratory (U.L.). These standards are incorporated into state and municipal plumbing and heating, building and fire protection codes in China. We maintain stringent quality control and testing procedures at each of our manufacturing facilities in order to manufacture products in compliance with code requirements. Our products are certified to conform to the ISO 9001 standards by the Det Norske Veritas Management System. Competition We believe that the valve products of the Company place it in a leading position in the flow control equipment production industry in China. For super-size mid-low pressure energy-saving flow control equipment and systems, the Company has an extensive competitive advantage compared to Chinese domestic manufactures. Other manufactures that are focusing on the development of different products may finally enter into this competition. Our potential competitor is China Valve Technology. In the other areas of the Company’s business, there are many different competitors with differing focuses and strengths. To some extent, boilers and furnaces are specialized to particular industries and output requirements. This specialization engenders specialization in the design, manufacture and installation of new equipment and retrofit solutions. Therefore, there are many engineering and manufacturing companies that focus on certain types of boilers and furnaces resulting in a relatively fragmented market for these services. The same is true for the retrofit and reconstruction of other industrial systems for improved energy efficiency, as well as for the localized projects for energy conservation and biomass utililization, and similar projects. Therefore, the competition that the Company faces tends to be localized companies with no dominant players at this time. In the wind power equipment market, the Company believes that there are other companies that provide similar equipment to what the Company intends to commence manufacturing and selling in 2010. Many of the suppliers may be international companies. Because this is a newer industry, the market participants are somewhat fragmented, and there are no discernable market leaders at this time in the China market. Also, because of the expected demand for this type of equipment, there are not anticipated to be identifiable competitors in the short term. 12 We plan to compete based on our ability to address a wide spectrum of solutions in our various market areas. We believe our competitive advantages result from our patented technologies, our strategic relationships with engineering companies, our marketing and our business relationships. We plan to continue to expand these aspects of our business to further grow our core businesses and provide solutions for the energy savings and green energy projects. We intend to participate actively in the government sponsored projects and government contracting. Research and Development The research and development expenses are to develop new products or new production technologies, including significant improvements to existing products. The research and development expenses include the materials and labor costs. We incurred research and development expenses to study the possibility of using the Company’s existing manufacturing facilities and valve production expertise to produce equipment and fittings for wind power plants. The R&D expense for 2008 and 2007 were $111,030 and $370,633, respectively. Due to the integral relationship between the R&D on the design of products during the process of satisfying customer requirements and manufacturing our flow control equipment, the cost for R&D for 2009 was relatively low and we recorded the R&D cost as part of the cost of production in fiscal year 2009. Employees As of December 31, 2009, there were 225 employees including 31 management personnel working in our subsidiaries located in China. We believe we have a good relationship with our employees. Other Our internet website address is http://www.nfenergy.com . Through our website, we make available, free of charge, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, proxy and registration statements, and all of our insider Section 16 reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. These SEC reports can be accessed through the “Investors” section of our website. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to other information included in this annual report, in evaluating NF Energy Saving Corporation and our business. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business We have a relatively short operating history and are subject to the risks of any growing enterprise, any one of which could limit our growth and our product and market development. Our operating history makes it difficult to predict how our businesses will develop and where the Company will find success. This is especially true in respect of our expansion into areas other than flow valve technology and their design, sales and installation. Accordingly, we face all of the risks and uncertainties encountered by companies in earlier stages to development and initial expansion, such as: (i) uncertain and continued market acceptance for our product extensions and our services; (ii) the evolving nature of the wind energy equipment industry in the PRC, where significant consolidation may occur, leading to the formation of companies which may be better able to compete with us than is currently the case; (iii) the fragmented nature of the boiler and furnace business which may limit our ability to penetrate the market and provide comprehensive solutions on a sufficiently wide basis to make the business profitable; (iv) changing competitive conditions, technological advances or customer preferences could adversely effect the sales of our products or services; (v) maintaining our competitive position in the PRC and competing with Chinese and international companies, many of which have longer operating histories and greater financial resources than us; (vi) continuing to offer commercially successful products to attract and retain a larger base of direct customers and ultimate users; (vii) maintaining effective control of our costs and expenses; and (viii) retaining our management and skilled technical staff and recruiting additional key employees. If we are not able to meet the challenge of building our businesses and managing our growth, the likely result will be slowed growth, lower margins, additional operational costs and lower income. 13 We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or obtain financing in the future to support our operations and expansion. Having access to sufficient operating funds and capital funds for expansion will affect our ability to execute our business plan. We finance our business mainly through internally generated funds and, from time to time, selling equity securities to raise additional capital. There is no guarantee that we will always have internal funds available for our future development or that we will be able to raise capital from investor financing and loans granted by investors and financial institutions in the future. In addition, there may be delays in the process of selling our securities, which may require us to cut back on our operations or expansion activities. Our access to debt or equity financing depends on the investors’ and banks’ willingness to lend to and invest in us, our financial condition and on general conditions in the capital markets. We may not be able to secure additional sources of financing on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. Any shortfall in our cash flow and capital needs may result in our having to curtail our business plans or have an adverse effect on our financial condition. We believe that we need to raise additional capital for the expansionary elements of our business plan, which financing may not be available or available on terms favorable to us. During the next phase of our business development, as we continue our planned expansion into the wind energy equipment segment and other aspects of the energy savings industry, we believe that we will need to raise additional capital from outside sources during the next year or two. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all. One possible impediment to raising capital is the tightening credit policies of the Chinese banks and the continued effects of the global credit and financial crisis of 2008-2009. If we cannot raise additional capital on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our services, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. We cannot be sure that we will be able to secure all the financing we will require, or that it will be available on favorable terms. If we are unable to obtain any necessary additional financing, we will be required to substantially curtail our approach to implementing our business objectives. Additional financing may be debt, equity or a combination of debt and equity. If equity is used, it could result in significant dilution to our shareholders. We have pledged our assets in connection with a debt financing completed in early 2010, which may limit our ability to raise debt based financing in the future. In connection with the private placement of notes to two investors in early 2010, the Company pledged its assets in China as security for the debt of $960,000. The debt is due in one year, but is repayable with equity. While the debt is outstanding and the lenders hold the security in our assets, our ability to obtain additional debt financing from individual investors and institutional lenders who demand similar security through our assets may be limited. The current holders of the secured debt are not required to subordinate their security interest to other lenders and may not be willing to do so if requested. Efforts to protect our intellectual property rights and to defend against claims against us can increase our costs and will not always succeed. Any failures could adversely affect our sales and results of operations or restrict our ability to conduct our business. Intellectual property rights are important to many aspects of our business. We actively pursue patent protection in our flow valve business, and we expect to pursue intellectual property rights in our other business endeavors as we develop unique solutions to business demands. We, however, may be unable to obtain protection for our intellectual property. Even if protection is obtained, competitors may raise legal challenges to our rights or illegally infringe on our rights, including through means that may be difficult to prevent, detect or defend. In addition, because of the rapid pace of technological change and the confidentiality of patent applications in some jurisdictions, competitors may be issued patents from applications that were unknown to us prior to issuance. The patents of others could reduce the value of our commercial or pipeline of products or, to the extent they cover key technologies on which we have unknowingly relied, require that we seek to obtain licenses at a financial cost to us or cease using the technology, no matter how valuable the patents may be to our business. We cannot assure you we would be able to obtain such licenses on acceptable terms. Also, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of our and the proprietary rights of others. There is a risk that the outcome of such litigation will not be in our favor. Such litigation may be costly and may divert management attention as well as expend other resources which could otherwise have been devoted to our business. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. In addition, we have no insurance coverage against litigation costs and would have to bear all costs arising from such litigation to the extent we are unable to recover such costs from other parties. The occurrence of any of the foregoing may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Finally, implementation of PRC intellectual property-related laws has historically been limited, primarily because of ambiguities in the PRC laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries, which increases the risk that we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property. 14 For aspects of our business we rely on strategic relationships, and there is no assurance that we will be able to renew these arrangements. We have several strategic relationships which provide us with access to technology and provide us with a competitive advantage. These include the relationships with GE Enterprise Development (Shanghai) Co. LTD., Global Environmental Facility / World Bank / National Development and Reform Commission, Osaka Gas, Japan, and Schneider Electric (China) Investment Co, Limited. There is no guarantee that any of these agreements and arrangements will provide the benefits that we hope will result or that the relationships will be renewed. Moreover, there is no assurance that any steps we have already taken or might take in the future will ensure the successful renewal of any or all our rights or the granting of further new rights or that the terms of any renewals would not be significantly less favorable to us than the terms of our current agreements. The loss of such arrangements or diminution of the rights may have an adverse impact on our business development, including product offerings, research and development and competitive position. We derive a substantial part of our revenues from several major customers, therefore if we lose any of these customers or they reduce the amount of business they do with us in the future, our revenues may be affected Our two largest customers, Nengfa Weiye Tieling Valve Joint Venture Company, Ltd and Shenyang Baotong Gate Company, accounted for 72% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 and accounted for 70% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. Our largest customer, Nengfa Weiye Tieling Valve Joint Venture Company, Ltd., accounted for 62% of our revenues in the year ended December 31, 2009. These customers may not maintain the same volume of business with us in the future. If we lose any of these customers or they reduce the amount of business they do with us, our revenues may be materially adversely affected. Although we have a preferred provider agreement with our largest current customer with a term ending in 2013, which is automatically renewable, there can be no assurance that the customer will continue to have the current level of demand or will not seek to modify, terminate or breach the agreement. Our technology may not satisfy the changing needs of our customers. With any technology, including the technology of our current and proposed products, there are risks that the technology may not successfully address our customers' needs. Certain of our product offerings in relation to the wind energy equipment will be new for the Company. While we have already established successful relationships with our customers, their needs may change or vary. This may affect the ability of our present or proposed products to address all of our customers' ultimate technology needs in an economically feasible manner. We may not be able to keep pace with rapid technological changes and competition in our industry. While we believe that we have hired or engaged personnel and outside consultants who have the experience and ability necessary to keep pace with advances in technology, and while we continue to seek out and develop "next generation" technology through our research and development efforts, there is no guarantee that we will be able to keep pace with technological developments and market demands in this evolving industry and market. In addition, our industry is competitive in various aspects. Although we believe that we have developed strategic relationships to best penetrate the China market, we face competition from other manufacturers of product similar to our products and services. Some of these companies have significant advantages over us with respect to their products, marketing and services, and their financial resources and customer relationships. If we are not as successful as our competitors in our target markets, our sales could decline, our margins could be negatively impacted and we could lose market share, any of which could materially harm our business. We depend on our productivity capacity to complete existing orders and provide delivery on time. If we are unable to finish the production when needed we would experience delays in realizing our sales objectives and our financial results could be adversely affected. The first phase of our new production facility, which will include expansion for a number of our business lines, including our wind energy equipment business, is under construction and expected to be completed in 2010. If there is a delay on completing the new facility, it will negatively impact our predicted production capability, which in addition negatively affects our financial results. We may experience high account receivables balances from time to time, which may have an adverse effect on our operating profitability and cash flow and financing needs. Although we generally have a 30 to 90 day accounts receivable period, if our customers extend the period in which they pay, we will experience a reduced cash flow, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to fund our operations and growth. One result may be that we will have to obtain outside financing and our operating expense will increase. Extension of the accounts receivable period may also result in reduced collections, which will adversely affect our operations and profitability. 15 To the extent that we depend on government projects, our business is dependent on government policy and, to some extent, government funding and government contracts. Although we do not characterize our business as a government contractor, some aspects of our business are indirectly dependant on government policy, government funding, and government contracts. For example, the water diversion project is largely a government funded project, and our customers are contractors with the government. It is possible that our wind energy equipment business will also be highly dependent on government funding, if not government contracts. Much of the pollution control and green industries are dependent on government policy to implement societal improvements. Our business has a number of aspects that are dependent on the government and our products, services and revenues are dependent on policies that can change if the government officials determine to redirect attention and investment to other aspects of society and industrial development. Therefore, if there is change or modification in government policy concerning any of the areas of our business, we may suffer a reduction in demand for our products and services and a reduction in our revenues. Additionally, as a number of our customers are dependant on the government for their revenues through the provision of products and services on government contracts or government funded projects, there may be delays in our receiving payment for our products and services. Fluctuation in the availability and cost of our raw materials may have an adverse effect on our operations and results of operations. A portion of the inventory of raw materials and parts may be affected by fluctuations in the availability of the items and the price. Such things may include steel, electronic components, power systems, paints and welding rods. We do not generally have long term supply contracts with our suppliers, but rely on long standing relationships. To the extent that we are not able to obtain the requirement materials and parts necessary to enable us to fabricate our products, or we are required to pay more for such items, then there could be an adverse effect on our operations and our results of operations. We may be unable to effectively manage our growth. As we expand our business into several different areas of energy savings and green industry, we will need to manage our growth effectively, which may entail devising and effectively implementing business plans, training and managing our growing workforce, managing our costs, and implementing adequate control in our reporting systems in a timely manner. We may not be able to successfully manage our growth. Our failure to do so could affect our success in executing our business plan and adversely affect our revenues, profitability and results of operations. If we fail to successfully manage our planned expansion of operations, our growth prospects will be diminished and our operating expenses could exceed budgeted amounts. Our ability to offer our services in an evolving market and in different markets requires effective planning and management process. We have expanded our operations rapidly since inception, and we intend to continue to expand them in the foreseeable future. This rapid growth places significant demand on our managerial and operational resources and our internal training capabilities. In addition, we plan to increase our total work force. This growth will continue to substantially burden our management team. To manage growth effectively, we must implement and improve our operational, financial and other systems, procedures and controls on a timely basis and expand, train and manage our workforce, particularly our sales and marketing and support organizations. We cannot be certain that our systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our current or future operations or that our management will be able to handle such expansion and still achieve the execution necessary to meet our growth expectations. Failure to manage our growth effectively could diminish our growth prospects and could result in lost opportunities as well as operating expenses exceeding the amount budgeted. 16 If we fail to establish and maintain an effective system of internal control, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or to prevent fraud. Any inability to report and file our financial results accurately and timely could harm our business and adversely impact the trading price of our common stock. We are required to establish and maintain internal controls over financial reporting, disclosure controls, and to comply with other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the rules promulgated by the SEC thereunder. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, cannot guarantee that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all possible errors or all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no system of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected. Our operations are vulnerable to natural disasters or other events. Our operating income may be reduced by natural disasters in locations where we own and/or operate significant manufacturing facilities or are working on significant projects. Some types of losses, such as from earthquake, severe winter storms and environmental hazards, may be either uninsurable or too expensive to justify insuring against. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in any particular property, as well as any anticipated future revenue from such property. Our products may contain defects, which could adversely affect our reputation and cause us to incur significant costs. Despite numerous testing and quality controls, defects may be found in existing or new products. Any such defects could cause us to incur significant return and exchange costs, re-engineering costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts, and cause significant customer relations and business reputation problems. Any such defects could force us to undertake a product recall program, which could cause us to incur significant expenses and could harm our reputation and that of our products. If we deliver products with defects, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our products could be harmed. Our business could be subject to environmental liabilities. We use certain hazardous substances in our operations. Currently we do not anticipate any material adverse effect on our business, revenues or results of operations, as a result of compliance with Chinese environmental laws and regulations. However, the risk of environmental liability and charges associated with maintaining compliance with environmental laws is inherent in the nature of our business, and there is no assurance that material environmental liabilities and compliance charges will not arise in the future. We have limited business insurance coverage in China The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products. As a result, we do not have any business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. Because our funds are held in banks in the PRC that do not provide insurance, the failure of any bank in which we deposit our funds could affect our ability to continue in business. Banks and other financial institutions in the PRC do not provide insurance for funds held on deposit. A portion of our assets are in the form of cash deposited with banks in the PRC, and in the event of a bank failure, we may not have access to our funds on deposit. Depending upon the amount of money we maintain in a bank that fails, our inability to have access to our cash could impair our operations, and, if we are not able to access funds to pay our suppliers, employees and other creditors, we may be unable to continue in business. 17 We substantially depend on a few key personnel who, if not retained, could cause declines in productivity and operational results and loss of our strategic guidance, all of which would diminish our business prospects and value to investors. Our success depends to a large extent upon the continued service of a few executive officers and key employees, including, Mr. Gang Li, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees would have an adverse effect on us and our PRC operating subsidiaries, as these individuals play a significant role in developing and executing our overall business plan and maintaining customer relationships and proprietary technology systems. While none of our key personnel is irreplaceable, the loss of the services of any of these individuals would be disruptive to our business. We believe that our overall future success depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial and marketing personnel. There is no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel on terms acceptable to the Company or the employee. Inadequate personnel will limit our growth, and will be seen as a detriment to our prospects, leading potentially to a loss in value for investors. We are controlled by a small group of our existing stockholders, whose interests may differ from other stockholders. Our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, Mr. Gang Li, beneficially owns approximately 37.26% of the outstanding shares of our common stock and is our largest single stockholder. Together with, Ms Luiha Wang, who is our Chief Financial Officer, they own 47.78% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Accordingly these stockholders acting together will have significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. They will also have significant influence in preventing or causing a change in control. In addition, without the consent of these stockholders, we may be prevented from entering into transactions. The interests of these stockholders may differ from the interests of the other stockholders. We are responsible for the indemnification of our officers and directors. Delaware law and our Bylaws provide for the indemnification of our directors, officers, employees, and agents, under certain circumstances, against costs and expenses incurred by them in any litigation to which they become a party arising from their association with or activities on our behalf. Consequently, we may be required to expend substantial funds to satisfy these indemnity obligations. Any payment in respect of these indemnification rights could have an adverse effect on our cash flow and our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Company’s Common Stock Future sales of our common stock could adversely affect our stock price. We have a substantial number of outstanding shares held by persons that are able to sell or will be able to sell in the near future under Rule 144. Additionally, there are a significant number of shares in the public float. The holders of these shares subject to Rule 144 include our significant shareholders and a number of investors. If our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. In addition, the sale of these shares could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity or equity based securities. We are listed on the OTC Bulletin Board, which can be a volatile market. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, a NASDAQ sponsored and operated quotation system for equity securities. It is a more limited trading market than the NASDAQ markets, and timely and accurate quotations of the price of our common stock may not always be available. Investors may experience low trading volume and price volatility. Consequently, the activity of only a few shares may affect the market and may result in wide swings in price and in volume. Additionally, factors that may have little to do with the Company operations and business prospects may have dramatic impact on the price and volume of stock traded on the OTC. Although we are seeking to change to have our common stock traded on an exchange, there can be no assurance that we will obtain an exchange listing for our common stock. To obtain an exchange listing requires an application and lengthy review process by the exchange. Even if we do obtain an exchange listing, our stock may still experience trading volatility and there is no assurance that trading volumes will increase. Trading of our common stock has been limited, which may make it difficult for investors to sell their shares at times and prices that investors feel are appropriate To date, trading of our common stock has been limited. The lower trading volumes adversely effects the liquidity of our common stock, not only in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price, but also through delays in the timing of transactions and reduction in security analysts’ and the media’s coverage of us. This may result in lower prices for our common stock than might otherwise be obtained and could also result in a larger spread between the bid and asked prices for our common stock. 18 While our stock is traded on the OTC our common stock may at times be characterized as a “penny stock,” with the result that at those times it will be more difficult for shareholders to sell shares of our common stock. From time to time, our common stock may be considered a “penny stock” under SEC rules which is at times when it is traded on the OTC Bulletin Board at prices lower than $1.00. Broker-dealers who sell penny stocks must provide purchasers of these stocks with a standardized risk-disclosure document prepared by the SEC. This document provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks involved in investing in the penny-stock market. A broker must also give a purchaser, orally or in writing, bid and offer quotations and information regarding broker and salesperson compensation, make a written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser, and obtain the purchaser’s written agreement to the purchaser. Broker-dealers also must provide customers that hold penny stocks in their accounts with such broker-dealers a monthly statement containing price and market information relating to the penny stock. If a penny stock is sold to investors in violation of the penny stock rules, investors may be able to cancel the purchase and get the money back. The penny stock rules may make it difficult for investors to sell their shares of our stock, and because of these rules, there is less trading in penny stocks. Moreover, many brokers simply choose not to participate in penny-stock transactions. Accordingly, investors may not always be able to resell shares of our common stock publicly at times and at prices that investors feel are appropriate. The price for our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products and media reports by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, and news reports relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions. The volatile price of our stock makes it difficult for investors to predict the value of our investment, to sell shares at a profit at any given time, or to plan purchases and sales in advance. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results will not necessarily be indicative of our future performance. The price for our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products and media reports by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, and news reports relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions. The volatile price of our stock makes it difficult for investors to predict the value of our investment, to sell shares at a profit at any given time, or to plan purchases and sales in advance. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that may have been unrelated and disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Because we have not paid dividends, investors will not realize any income from an investment in our common stock unless and until investors sell their shares at profit. We did not pay dividends on our common stock in the period 2007 through 2009, and we do not anticipate paying any dividends in the near future. Investors should not rely on an investment in our stock if they require dividend income. Further, investors will only realize income on an investment in our stock in the event they sell or otherwise dispose of their shares at a price higher than the price they paid for their shares. Such a gain would result only from an increase in the market price of our common stock, which is uncertain and unpredictable. The payment of any future dividends will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend upon a number of factors, including future earnings, the success of our business activities, general financial condition, future prospects, general business conditions and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant. Risk Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. All of our business operations are currently conducted in the PRC, under the jurisdiction of the PRC government. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to a significant degree to economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, and control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors of China. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. 19 Unprecedented rapid economic growth in China may increase our costs of doing business, and may negatively impact our profit margins and/or profitability. Our business depends in part upon the availability of relatively low-cost labor and materials. Rising wages in China may increase our overall costs of production. In addition, rising raw material costs, due to strong demand and greater scarcity, may increase our overall costs of production. If we are not able to pass these costs on to our customers in the form of higher prices, our profit margins and/or profitability could decline We may suffer currency exchange losses if the RMB depreciates relative to the US Dollar. Our reporting currency is the US Dollar. However, substantially all of our revenues are denominated in RMB. In July 2005, China changed its exchange rate regime by establishing a managed floating exchange rate regime based on market supply and demand with reference to a basket of currencies. The RMB is no longer officially pegged to the US dollar, and the exchange rate will have some flexibility, although recently it has been fairly stable. Despite the stability, there is increasing pressure to dissociate the RMB from the US Dollar and let it float more in line with the state of the Chinese economy and other important trading currencies. Hence, considering the floating exchange rate regime, if the RMB depreciates relative to the US Dollar, our revenues as expressed in our US Dollar financial statements will decline in value and if the RMB appreciates relative to the US Dollar, our revenues as expressed in our US Dollar financial statements will increase in value. There are very limited hedging transactions available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure, if at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into US Dollars. New labor laws in the PRC may adversely affect our results of operations. On January 1, 2008, the PRC government promulgated the Labor Contract Law of the PRC, or the New Labor Contract Law. The New Labor Contract Law imposes greater liabilities on employers and significantly impacts the cost of an employer’s decision to reduce its workforce. Further, it requires certain terminations to be based upon seniority and not merit. In the event we decide to significantly change or decrease our workforce, the New Labor Contract Law could adversely affect our ability to enact such changes in a manner that is most advantageous to our business or in a timely and cost effective manner, thus materially and adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in PRC Corporate Income Tax Law may affect our effective tax for 2008 and beyond. In March 2007, the Chinese government enacted the Corporate Income Tax Law, and promulgated related regulations, which were effective January 1, 2008. The Corporate Income Tax Law, among other things, imposes a unified income tax rate of 25% for both domestic and foreign invested enterprises. The previous income tax laws and rules, which stipulated income tax rates for domestic and foreign invested enterprises at different rates, expired upon the effectiveness of the Corporate Income Tax Law. The Corporate Income Tax Law provides a five-year transitional period for those entities established before March 16, 2007, which enjoyed a favorable income tax rate of less than 25% under the previous income tax laws and rules, to gradually change their rates to 25%. In addition, the Corporate Income Tax Law provides grandfather treatment to allow foreign invested enterprises to continue to enjoy their unexpired tax holiday under the previous income tax laws and rules. The Corporate Income Tax Law also imposes a 10% withholding income tax for dividends distributed by a foreign invested enterprise to its immediate holding company outside China, which were exempted under the previous income tax laws and rules. A lower withholding tax rate will be applied if there is a tax treaty arrangement between mainland China and the jurisdiction of the foreign holding company. Holding companies in Hong Kong, for example, will be subject to a 5% rate. All of these foreign invested enterprises will be subject to the withholding tax on January 1, 2008. Since we intend to reinvest our earnings to further expand our businesses in mainland China, we do not intend to declare dividends in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, as of December 31, 2009, we have not recorded any withholding tax on the retained earnings of our foreign invested subsidiary in China. 20 The Corporate Income Tax Law emphasizes the requirement of an arm’s length basis for transfer pricing arrangements between related parties. Also, it requires enterprises with related party transactions to prepare transfer pricing documentation which includes the basis for determining pricing, the computation methodology and detailed explanations. Under a tax inspection by tax authorities, if our transfer pricing arrangements between the China-based subsidiaries are judged as tax avoidance, or related documentation does not meet the requirements of the Corporate Income Tax Law, our China-based subsidiaries may be subject to tax adjustments and late payment interest. Our China subsidiary Nengfa Energy, being a foreign invested enterprise, enjoyed a two year exemption from corporate income tax for 2007-2008 and will enjoy a reduced corporate income rate of 15% for the three years from 2009-2011. If we cannot continue to obtain the unexpired tax holidays and reduced corporate tax rate or if the withholding tax on dividends is applied to our business, our effective tax rate will be increased significantly. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive all our revenues in RMB. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from the SAFE or its local branch is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protections available to us and you, or could lead to penalties on us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the PRC Government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past 25 years has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in mainland China. Our PRC operating subsidiary, Nengfa Energy, a wholly foreign-owned enterprises (“WFOEs”), is subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in the PRC in general and laws and regulations applicable to WFOEs in particular. It may be difficult to enforce any civil judgments against us or our board of directors or officers, because most of our operating and/or fixed assets are located outside of the United States. Although we are incorporated in the State of Delaware, most of our operating and fixed assets are located in the PRC. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to enforce judgments outside the United States obtained in actions brought against us in the United States, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States or of the securities laws of any state of the United States. In addition, certain of our directors and officers (principally based in the PRC) and all or a substantial portion of their assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon those directors and officers, or to enforce against them or us judgments obtained in United States courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States or of the securities laws of any state of the United States. We have been advised by our PRC counsel that, in their opinion, there is doubt as to the enforceability in the PRC, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of United States courts, of civil liabilities predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States or the securities laws of any state of the United States. Because our assets are located overseas, shareholders may not receive distributions that they would otherwise be entitled to if we were declared bankrupt or insolvent. Because all of our assets are located in the PRC, they may be outside of the jurisdiction of U.S. courts to administer if we are the subject of an insolvency or bankruptcy proceeding. As a result, if we declared bankruptcy or insolvency, our shareholders may not receive the distributions on liquidation that they would otherwise be entitled to if our assets were to be located within the U.S., under U.S. Bankruptcy law. 21 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 