Risk Factors” included in this report. We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 3 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS As used in this report, references to “we,” “us,” “our” or “the Company” refer to the consolidated operations of AXIS Capital and its direct and indirect subsidiaries and branches, including AXIS Specialty Limited (“AXIS Specialty Bermuda”), AXIS Re Limited (“AXIS Re Ireland”), AXIS Specialty Europe Limited (“AXIS Specialty Ireland”), AXIS Reinsurance Company (“AXIS Re U.S.”), AXIS Specialty Insurance Company (“AXIS Specialty U.S.”), AXIS Surplus Insurance Company (“AXIS Surplus U.S.”), AXIS Insurance Company (“AXIS Insurance U.S.”), AXIS Re Europe and AXIS Specialty London, unless the context suggests otherwise. General Development & Business AXIS Capital Holdings Limited (“AXIS Capital”) is the Bermuda-based holding company for the AXIS Group of Companies. Through our various operating subsidiaries, we provide a broad range of insurance and reinsurance products to insureds and reinsureds worldwide with operations in Bermuda, Europe, Singapore and the United States. Our business consists of two distinct global underwriting platforms, AXIS Insurance and AXIS Re. In November 2001, we established our operations in Bermuda as a worldwide reinsurer of catastrophe risks and an insurer of global specialty risks accessed predominantly through the London broker network. In May 2002, we commenced insurance and reinsurance operations in Europe through our Dublin office. During 2003, we established our U.K. branch, AXIS Specialty London, and our Zurich branch, AXIS Re Europe. In late 2002, we commenced underwriting in the United States with the acquisition of a shell insurance and reinsurance company licensed in all 50 states and a non-admitted shell insurance company. In early 2003, we added a team of professionals from Combined Specialty Group, Inc. to underwrite business in the specialty admitted and non-admitted property and casualty insurance marketplace in the U.S. and also acquired the renewal rights to a portfolio of professional liability insurance and related lines of business written by the Financial Insurance Solutions Group of Kemper Insurance Companies. Our Business Strategy Our long-term business strategy focuses on utilizing our management’s extensive expertise, experience and long-standing market relationships to identify and underwrite attractively priced risks while delivering insurance and reinsurance solutions to our customers. Our underwriters worldwide are focused on constructing a portfolio of risks that effectively utilizes our capital while optimizing the risk-reward characteristics of the portfolio. We exercise disciplined underwriting practices and manage a diverse book of business while we seek to maximize our profitability and generate superior returns on equity. To afford ourselves ample opportunity to construct a portfolio diversified by product and geography that meets our profitability and return objectives, we have implemented organic growth strategies in key markets worldwide. The markets in which we operate have historically been cyclical. During periods of excess underwriting capacity, as defined by availability of capital, competition can result in lower pricing and less favorable policy terms and conditions for insurers and reinsurers. During periods of reduced underwriting capacity, pricing and policy terms and conditions are generally more favorable for insurers and reinsurers. Historically, underwriting capacity has been impacted by several factors, including industry losses, catastrophes, changes in legal and regulatory guidelines, investment results and the ratings and financial strength of competitors. 4 Our short-term strategies conform to our long-term objectives but also reflect changes and opportunities within the global market place. The following is an overview of the insurance and reinsurance market since our first full year of operations in 2002, together with a discussion as to how the Company has evolved during this period. We were established in late 2001 to take advantage of the significant imbalance that had been created between the demand for insurance and reinsurance and the supply of capacity from adequately capitalized insurers and reinsurers. Pricing and deductibles were increasing dramatically and policy terms and coverages tightening across many specialist lines of business. In a short period of time following our formation, we were able to assemble a diverse portfolio of specialist insurance risks. We also established a property reinsurance portfolio largely comprising worldwide catastrophe exposure. Since our inception, we have focused our efforts on identifying and recruiting talented specialist underwriters and diligently building our infrastructure to access and analyze risks for our global portfolio and to deliver service of the highest quality to our clients. During 2003, we were able to further diversify our global business by adding select underwriting teams and infrastructure in the U.S. and in Europe. Specifically, we established a meaningful presence in the wholesale insurance market in the U.S., which allowed us to quickly take advantage of favorable market conditions. We also entered the professional lines insurance business through a renewal rights transaction and simultaneous recruitment of an underwriting team from Kemper. The shortage of capacity for U.S. professional lines reinsurance business served as an opportunity for further diversification of our global treaty reinsurance business and establishment of a local presence in the U.S. reinsurance marketplace. By the end of 2003, we had also established a local presence in the Continental European reinsurance marketplace. We have been able to further develop our global catastrophe and property portfolios and diversify into other traditional European treaty reinsurance business including motor liability and credit and bond. The strong diversity by product and geography we have created over time, coupled with our rigorous underwriting processes, allows us the flexibility to trade from one class of business to another as we see market conditions alter and the ability to focus on overall diversification as we do this. Notably, towards the end of 2005, we were faced with a deteriorating aviation insurance market. As we substantially reduced our participation in the aviation market, we focused more closely on more stable lines, such as professional lines. We continue to selectively add underwriting expertise and broaden our producer relationships to find additional opportunities. Competition The insurance and reinsurance industry is highly competitive. We compete on an international and regional basis with major U.S., Bermuda, European and other international insurers and reinsurers and with underwriting syndicates, some of which have greater financial, marketing and management resources than we do. We also compete with new companies that continue to be formed to enter the insurance and reinsurance markets. In addition, capital markets participants offer alternative products that are intended to compete with reinsurance products. Increased competition could result in fewer underwriting submissions, lower premium rates and less favorable policy or contract terms, which could have a material adverse impact on our growth and profitability. Competitive information by segment is included in each of the segment discussions below. Segment Information We operate through the following business segments: insurance and reinsurance. Our insurance segment is further divided into two sub-segments: global insurance and U.S. insurance. We evaluate the performance of our segments based on underwriting results. Many of our lines of business have loss 5 experience characterized as low frequency and high severity, which may result in volatility in our segments’ operating results and cash flows. We do not allocate our assets by segment as we evaluate the underwriting results of each segment separately from the results of the investment portfolio. Financial data relating to our segments is included in our Consolidated Financial Statements presented under Item 8 of this report. The following discussion of the Company’s business segments is organized as follows: (i) lines of business; (ii) methods of distribution; (iii) underwriting and risk management; (iv) ceded reinsurance; and (v) competition. Insurance Segment Lines of business Following are the lines of business in our global insurance sub-segment: · Property: provides physical damage and business interruption coverage for industrial properties and physical damage, business interruption and liability coverage for onshore energy property and operations. Coverage relates to both catastrophic and non-catastrophic events. · Marine: provides coverage for hull, liability, cargo and specie and recreational marine risks. These risks include property damage or physical loss to ships, pollution damage caused by vessels on a sudden and accidental basis and protection for general cargo and the contents of armored cars, vaults, exhibitions and museums. This line of business also provides physical damage, business interruption and liability coverage for offshore energy property and operations. · Terrorism and war risk: includes coverage for physical damage and associated business interruption of an insured following an act of terrorism and specific war coverage for the interests not otherwise covered in our aviation and marine hull and liability business. · Aviation and aerospace: primarily includes hull and liability coverage for passenger and cargo airlines and privately owned aircraft, select aviation product liability coverage, and to a much lesser extent, physical damage coverage on satellite launches and satellite liability. · Political risk: generally provides protection against sovereign default or sovereign actions resulting in impairment of cross-border investments for banks and major corporations. It also provides protection on structured credit based transactions where lenders seek to mitigate some of the non-payment risk of their borrowers. · Professional lines and other specialty: primarily consist of directors’ and officers’ and errors and omissions liability coverage. For the majority of our global insurance business, gross premiums are written throughout the year. Exceptions to this are the business written in our aviation and aviation war accounts, which is predominantly written in the last quarter of the calendar year, and our property business for which two significant renewal dates are April 1 and July 1. In addition, the timing of the premiums that we write for our political risk business is variable. Customers in global insurance include major companies in the airline, banking, multimedia and natural resources industries. During 2006, no customer accounted for more than 10% of gross premiums written within global insurance. Following are the lines of business in our U.S. insurance sub-segment: · Property: provides coverage for physical damage and business interruption primarily with respect to commercial properties. The book consists of both primary and excess risks, some of which are catastrophe-exposed. 6 · Professional lines: primarily consists of coverage for directors’ and officers’ liability, errors and omissions liability and employment practices liability. · Liability: primarily targets casualty risks in the U.S. excess and surplus lines markets. Target classes include mercantile, manufacturing and building/premises, with particular emphasis on commercial and consumer products, commercial construction and miscellaneous general liability. · Other specialty: primarily provides employee medical coverage for self-insured, small and medium sized employers for losses in excess of a retention. For the majority of our U.S insurance business, gross premiums are written throughout the year, however, for our primary property business two significant renewal dates are April 1 and July 1. Many of the property and casualty insurance products are for non-standard and complex risks. U.S. insurance has the ability to write business on an admitted basis using forms and rates as filed with state insurance regulators and on a non-admitted basis, or surplus lines basis, with flexibility in forms and rates as these are not filed with state regulators. Having access to non-admitted carriers provides the pricing flexibility needed to write non-standard coverage. During 2006, no customer accounted for more than 10% of gross premiums written within U.S. insurance. Methods of Distribution Our global insurance sub-segment operates from offices based in Bermuda and Europe and provides specialty lines coverage predominantly through the London broker network and intermediaries. Our U.S. insurance sub-segment operates from offices throughout the U.S. and provides coverage through a variety of channels in the U.S. We produce our business primarily though insurance brokers worldwide, who receive brokerage fees upfront. In addition to using brokers, some insurance products are also distributed through managing general agents and underwriters. Our management and underwriting team have longstanding relationships with key insurance brokers, such as Marsh, Inc., Aon Corporation and Willis Group Holdings Ltd. Gross premiums written by broker, shown individually where premiums are 10% or more of the total, were as follows: Year ended December 31 2006 2005 2004 (In thousands) Marsh $ 340,976 16.5 % $ 385,489 20.6 % $ 533,037 27.8 % Aon 311,138 15.0 % 256,729 13.7 % 337,293 17.6 % Willis 224,842 10.9 % 189,702 10.1 % 221,757 11.6 % Other brokers 915,437 44.2 % 798,065 42.6 % 719,598 37.4 % Managing general agencies and underwriters, and direct 278,074 13.4 % 245,032 13.0 % 107,878 5.6 % Total gross premiums written $ 2,070,467 100.0 % $ 1,875,017 100.0 % $ 1,919,563 100.0 % Underwriting and Risk Management “Submit.AXIS” is a unique, web-based policy submission system that we developed for our global insurance sub-segment. Developed in late 2001 for brokers in the London market and enhanced in 2003, Submit.AXIS allows brokers to provide details of a policy submission via the Internet so that our underwriters may review online submission details and relevant policy documentation. The system provides local and group management with submissions information, acts as a repository for documentation, assists with market intelligence, assists with global clearance, and enables local and international peer review. Although we have been taking submissions electronically since inception, the London market has began a 7 number of initiatives which will eventually allow for full electronic submission and placement across the industry. We are working closely with the key London brokers and several of the key IT/support firms to actively support these projects. Since 2005, we have developed our “Underwriter Workstation” in U.S. insurance, which acts as the workbench tool for underwriters for all lines of business in the segment. This system contains a submission module, clearance function, captures all underwriting details and interfaces in real-time with our cash & billing system. The Underwriter Workstation assists with core pricing and underwriting processes and provides a consistent data feed to our underwriting accounting system. The system allows for complete and consistent data capture and issues quotes and binders. For our global insurance sub-segment, internal underwriting controls are exercised through a “senior peer review panel” comprised of several senior underwriters within this sub-segment. Proposal details for each risk we consider underwriting reside in Submit.AXIS and can be reviewed by all underwriting staff. For some lines of business in this segment, we have developed strict guidelines and risks can be bound within those guidelines, subject to peer review by a team of underwriters. For the vast majority of our business and for any exceptions to the guidelines discussed above, risks are peer reviewed by the “senior peer review panel” on a daily basis by means of Submit.AXIS and a daily conference call. A daily conference call log is maintained of all the risks discussed and this, together with a daily underwriting log of all risks written within each underwriting office, is reviewed and approved regularly by the “senior peer review panel”. Our U.S. insurance sub-segment also has a review process in place. Due to the large number of submissions received and the generally smaller net retentions on this business, we use a modified peer review process whereby every account is reviewed by two or more underwriters before a risk is bound and only risks that have the approval of a senior officer are bound. Depending upon the risk’s characteristics and our underwriting guidelines, the risk may also be reviewed by a senior underwriting panel. We use a variety of proprietary and commercially available tools to quantify and monitor the various risks that we accept as a company. Our proprietary systems include those for modeling risks associated with property catastrophe, terrorism risks, and various casualty and specialty pricing models as well as our proprietary portfolio risk model. With respect to the catastrophe-exposures, we utilize Risklink version 6.0. licensed by Risk Management Solutions (“RMS”) to price and to accumulate individual risks for our commercial property and onshore energy books. This analysis is then combined with the analyses of our reinsurance segment to monitor group-wide aggregate exposures. For terrorism perils, we use the RMS Probabilistic Terrorism Model as well as a tool developed by RMS to measure accumulations around select targets on a deterministic basis. To price and accumulate our offshore energy business in our global insurance sub-segment, a modeling tool licensed by RMS is used as a component of our analyses of this business. Due to limitations on the modeling of offshore energy exposures, significant underwriting judgment is also required. With respect to the non-catastrophe exposed business in our U.S. insurance sub-segment, we generally analyze specialty insurance contracts using a variety of rating models. Where applicable, our models draw upon industry information, including historical trend, loss development and settlement patterns, claim frequency, claim severity, and pricing information licensed from Insurance Services Office, Inc. (“ISO”), AMS-Rackley, Institutional Shareholders Services, and Advisen Ltd. In addition to the above technical and analytical practices, our underwriters use a variety of factors, including specific contract terms and diversification of risk by geography and type of risk, to manage our exposure to loss. Substantially all business written is subject to aggregate limits in addition to event limits. 8 Ceded Reinsurance Our insurance segment purchases treaty and facultative reinsurance to reduce exposure to large losses or a series of large losses. Facultative reinsurance provides for all or a portion of the insurance provided by a single policy and each policy reinsured is individually negotiated. Treaty reinsurance provides for a specified type or category of risks. Our reinsurance agreements are written on either an excess of loss or quota share basis. Excess of loss covers provide a contractually set amount of cover after an excess point has been reached. This excess point can be based on the size of an industry loss or a fixed monetary amount. These covers can be purchased on a package policy basis, which provide cover for a number of lines of business within one contract. Quota share covers provide a proportional amount of coverage from the first dollar of loss. All of these reinsurance covers provide for recovery of a portion of losses and loss expenses from reinsurers. We remain liable to the extent that reinsurers do not meet their obligations under these agreements. In late 2006 we created a new integrated Ceded Reinsurance Unit within our insurance segment that coordinates our reinsurance purchasing activities to improve efficiency and consistency and take advantage of any new opportunities in the marketplace. All of our reinsurance is subject to financial requirements specified by our Reinsurance Security Committee. This committee, comprising senior management personnel, maintains a list of approved reinsurers, performs credit assessments for existing and potential counterparties, determines counterparty tolerance levels for short and medium tail business, monitors concentrations of credit risk and provides recommendations in respect of reserves required for non-collectable reinsurance. It is generally the Reinsurance Security Committee’s policy to require reinsurers which do not meet counterparty security requirements pre-approved by the committee to provide collateral. Competition In our global and U.S. insurance sub-segments, where competition tends to be focused more on availability, service and considerations other than price, we compete with insurers that provide property and casualty based lines of insurance such as: ACE Limited, Allianz Group, Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd., American International Group, Inc., Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., Chubb Corporation, Factory Mutual Insurance Company,, Lloyd’s of London, Munich Re Group, Swiss Reinsurance Company, Zurich Financial Services and XL Capital Ltd. We believe we achieve a competitive advantage through the strategic and operational linking of our global insurance and U.S insurance sub-segments, which allows us to design our insurance programs on a global basis in alignment with the global needs of many of our clients. Reinsurance Lines of Business The following are our lines of business we write on both a treaty and facultative basis in our reinsurance segment: · Catastrophe: provides protection for most catastrophic losses that are covered in the underlying insurance policies written by our ceding company clients which is principally property exposure. This business also consists of contracts covering non-property exposures, including workers compensation, personal accident and life. The principal perils in this portfolio are hurricane and windstorm, earthquake, flood, tornado, hail and fire. In some instances, terrorism may be a covered peril or the only peril. · Property: includes reinsurance written on both a pro rata and a per risk basis and covers underlying personal lines and commercial property exposures. Property pro rata treaty reinsurance 9 covers a cedent’s aggregate losses from all events in the covered period on a proportional basis. Property per risk treaty reinsurance reinsures a portfolio of particular property risks of ceding companies on an excess of loss basis. · Professional Liability: covers directors’ and officers’ liability, employment practices liability, medical malpractice and miscellaneous errors and omissions insurance risks. · Credit and Bond: consists principally of reinsurance of trade credit insurance products and includes both proportional and excess-of loss structures. The underlying insurance indemnifies sellers of goods and services against a payment default by the buyer of those goods and services. Also included in this book is coverage for ceding insurers against losses arising from a broad array of surety bonds issued by bond insurers principally to satisfy regulatory demands in a variety of jurisdictions around the world, but predominantly in Europe. · Motor: provides coverage to insurers for motor liability losses arising out of any one occurrence. The occurrence can involve one or many claimants where the ceding insurer aggregates the claims from the occurrence. · Liability: provides coverage to insurers of standard casualty lines, including auto liability, general liability, personal and commercial umbrella and workers’ compensation. · Other: includes aviation, engineering, marine, personal accident and crop reinsurance. During 2006, no customer accounted for more than 10% of gross premiums written within our reinsurance segment. Methods of Distribution Our reinsurance segment operates through offices based in Bermuda, the U.S. and Europe and provides treaty property and casualty reinsurance to insurance companies on a worldwide basis. Treaty reinsurance contracts are contractual arrangements that provide for automatic reinsurance of any agreed upon portion of business written as specified in a reinsurance contract. Contracts can be written on an excess of loss basis or a pro rata basis, also known as proportional. We produce our business primarily though brokers worldwide, who receive brokerage fees upfront. Our management and underwriting team have longstanding relationships with key reinsurance brokers, such as Marsh, Inc, including its subsidiary, Guy Carpenter Company, Inc, Aon Corporation, Willis Group Holdings Ltd., and Benfield Group and with many ceding companies. Gross premiums written by broker, shown individually where premiums are 10% or more of the total, were as follows: Year ended December 31 2006 2005 2004 (In thousands) Marsh $ 548,016 35.6 % $ 566,440 37.3 % $ 376,245 34.4 % Aon 313,766 20.4 % 274,418 18.1 % 245,743 22.5 % Benfield 233,880 15.2 % 186,177 12.3 % 153,542 14.1 % Other brokers 390,671 25.4 % 387,604 25.4 % 293,371 26.8 % Managing general agencies and underwriters, and direct 52,236 3.4 % 104,229 6.9 % 23,847 2.2 % Total gross premiums written $ 1,538,569 100.0 % $ 1,518,868 100.0 % $ 1,092,748 100.0 % 10 Underwriting and Risk Management All risks in our reinsurance segment are reviewed by a senior underwriter. If the risk meets our internal guidelines for exposure and profitability, it is referred for further analysis to one of three executive officers who coordinate our reinsurance underwriting activities in Bermuda, the U.S. and Europe. Following approval by one of these three executives, contracts presenting significant exposures or with liability exposure are made available for review by at least one of the three executive officers in our reinsurance segment or the Company’s Chief Executive Officer for final comments. In every case, the review process is completed before we commit contractually. Additionally, for catastrophe exposures, we ensure that pricing methodology is consistent and appropriate throughout the segment through the use of proprietary rating and accumulation tools, underwriting authority limits and frequent communication. All business is rated using the same basic risk measurement standards to ensure consistency within the segment. All offers, quotes and bound lines are circulated daily to the senior reinsurance underwriters within the segment to allow for feedback and commentary. This process ensures that the knowledge base and experience of the segment is available to all underwriters to supplement the technology that we use to price our business. We use a variety of proprietary and commercially available tools to quantify and monitor the various risks that we accept as a company. Our proprietary systems include those for modeling risks associated with property catastrophe, workers’ compensation, terrorism risks, and various casualty and specialty pricing models as well as our proprietary portfolio risk model. For the analysis of our catastrophe-exposed business, we use four natural catastrophe modeling tools (Risklink version 6.0 licensed by RMS, Classic/2 and CATRADER version 7.5 licensed by AIR and WORLDCAT Enterprise licensed by Eqecat). For the analysis of terrorism perils, we license the RMS Probabilistic Terrorism Model. In addition, we have developed an internal proprietary application, the “Reinsurance Work Station”, (“RWS”), which allows us to track the results from each of these models for both pricing and accumulation purposes. For our underwriters focused on property reinsurance business, the system supports pricing and aggregation and interfaces with the catastrophe models used by our underwriters. From this base, we have expanded the system to address non-property business written worldwide by AXIS Re and this enhancement is currently used in our Continental European reinsurance operations. RWS will eventually serve as the sole underwriting application used by all lines of business within our Reinsurance segment. Our modeling system (including an aggregate exposure management tool) allows the underwriting team, in conjunction with the actuarial team, to analyze risk exposure on a per peril (for example, fire, flood, earthquake) and a geographic basis. If a program meets our underwriting criteria, the proposal is evaluated in terms of its risk/reward profile to assess the adequacy of the proposed pricing and its potential impact on our overall return on capital. For our property pro rata business, we use a combination of actuarial techniques and catastrophe modeling. We use actuarial techniques to examine our ceding companies’ underwriting results as well as the underwriting results from the companies with comparable books of business and pertinent industry results. In our property per risk business, we rely almost exclusively on actuarial techniques. Although per risk treaties may include exposure to natural perils, catastrophe modeling systems are generally not used largely because the cedents do not generally provide location level information that will allow accurate measurement of exposure to per risk treaty structures. To minimize this impact, we generally participate in middle to upper layers where the natural catastrophe element of exposure is minimized. For our non-property medium and long-tail reinsurance business in the U.S., we use standard experience rating and exposure rating pricing models. The pricing parameters in these models are drawn from a number of industry sources (ISO, National Council on Compensation Insurance, Inc., Cornerstone Research, Jury Verdict Data, and the National Practitioners Data Bank) and are supplemented with information compiled from clients’ submissions. 11 For our non-property medium and long-tail reinsurance business in Europe, we work almost exclusively with our in-house built actuarial model based on perceived market standards in respect of experience, exposure, extrapolation and simulation techniques. To a very large extent, the pricing parameters are drawn from information compiled from clients’ submissions and supplemented with publicly accessible information where appropriate. In addition to the above technical and analytical practices, our underwriters use a variety of factors, including specific contract terms and diversification of risk by geography and type of risk, to manage our exposure to loss. Substantially all business written is subject to aggregate limits in addition to event limits. Competition In our reinsurance segment where competition tends to be focused on availability, service, financial strength and considerations other than price, we compete with reinsurers that provide property and casualty based lines of reinsurance such as: ACE Limited, Arch Capital Group Ltd., Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd, Endurance Specialty Holdings Ltd., Everest Re Group, Ltd., General Re Corporation., Hannover Re Group, Harbor Point Ltd., IPCRe Limited, Lloyd’s of London, Max Re Corporation, Montpelier Re Holdings Ltd., Munich Re Group, PartnerRe Ltd., Platinum Underwriters Holdings, Ltd., QBE Re Ltd., Renaissance Re Holdings Ltd., Signet Star Re, LLC, SCOR Group, Swiss Reinsurance Company, Transatlantic Holdings Inc. and XL Capital Ltd. We believe we achieve a competitive advantage through our technical expertise that allows us to respond quickly to customer needs and provide quality and innovative underwriting solutions. In addition, our customers highly value our exemplary service, strong capitalization and financial strength ratings. Technology We have developed a number of sophisticated technology platforms to support our underwriting activities worldwide. We believe our use of technology and our business model allows us to maintain a low-cost infrastructure and efficient underwriting operations. In addition, we believe our technologies provide us with competitive advantages as we seek to improve our relationships with our customers, provide enhanced levels of customer service and optimize our internal decision making process. Management’s directive to our information technology department is to implement a technology platform to support efficiency, facilitate a dynamic and opportunistic business plan and, therefore, sustain competitive advantage. To achieve this, the department works to provide scalable platforms supporting growth while ensuring reliability, redundancy and failover. Critical in the development of these platforms are the efficient receipt, processing and transmission of information from and between business partners, clients, employees and management. In 2006, we continued to improve the overall capacity, reliability and recoverability of our global network infrastructure. We completed an overhaul of our global email environment to accommodate growth and improve capabilities. We also updated our WAN and LAN infrastructure to accommodate greater data capacity for our critical business applications. We successfully completed multiple disaster recovery tests of key office locations. We are committed to identifying and deploying technologies that enhance our processing and underwriting capabilities and simultaneously enable us to realize additional operating efficiencies. Claims Management We have claims teams located in Bermuda, Europe and the United States. Our claims teams provide global coverage and claims support for the insurance and reinsurance business we write. The role of our claims units is to investigate, evaluate and pay claims efficiently. We have implemented claims handling 12 guidelines and claims reporting and control procedures in all of our claims units. To ensure that claims are handled and reported in accordance with these guidelines, all claims matters are reviewed during a weekly claims meeting. The minutes from each meeting are also circulated to our underwriters, senior management and our independent actuaries. To maintain communication between underwriting and claims teams, claims personnel regularly report at underwriting meetings and frequently attend client meetings. When we receive notice of a claim, regardless of size, it is recorded within our underwriting and claims system. To assist with the reporting of significant claims, we have also developed a large claims information database, or LCID. The database is primarily used to “flash report” significant events and potential insurance or reinsurance losses, regardless of whether we have exposure. Where we have exposure, the system allows a direct notification to be instantly communicated to underwriters and senior management worldwide. Similarly, for natural catastrophes such as hurricanes, we have developed a catastrophe database that allows for the gathering, blending and reporting of loss information as it develops from early modeled results to fully adjusted and paid losses. Reserves We establish reserves for losses and loss expenses that arise from our insurance and reinsurance products. These reserves are balance sheet liabilities representing estimates of future amounts required to pay losses and loss expenses for insured or reinsured claims that have occurred at or before the balance sheet date, whether already known or not yet reported. Our loss reserves are established based upon our estimate of the total cost of claims that were reported to us but not yet paid, (“case reserves”), the costs of additional case reserves on claims reported to us but not considered to be adequately reserved (“ACR”), and the anticipated cost of claims incurred but not yet reported to us (“IBNR”). For a discussion of the methods used to establish our ultimate claim liabilities refer to Item 7, Critical Accounting Estimates—Reserve for losses and loss expenses. 13 The following table shows the subsequent development of the estimated year-end liability for net unpaid loss and loss expenses since our inception. The “cumulative redundancy” represents the aggregate change with respect to that liability originally estimated. The table also shows the cumulative net paid amounts as of successive years with respect to the net reserve liability. Conditions and trends that affected development of liabilities in the past may not necessarily occur in the future. Accordingly, it is inappropriate to anticipate future redundancies or deficiencies based on historical experience. Year ended December 31 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 (in thousands) Gross reserve for losses and loss expenses $ 963 $ 215,934 $ 992,846 $ 2,404,560 $ 4,743,338 $ 5,015,113 Reinsurance recoverable — (1,703 ) (124,899 ) (596,299 ) (1,518,110 ) (1,359,154 ) Net losses and loss expenses reserve 963 214,231 867,947 1,808,261 3,225,228 3,655,959 Net reserves reestimated as of: 1 Year later $ 165 $ 158,443 $ 686,235 $ 1,425,265 $ 3,008,692 2 Years later 165 141,290 539,110 1,147,866 3 Years later 165 109,711 434,221 4 Years later 196 97,981 5 Years later 196 Cumulative redundancy 767 116,250 433,726 660,395 216,536 Cumulative Net Paid Losses 1 Year later $ 15 $ 46,096 $ 113,024 $ 333,543 $ 898,562 2 Years later 125 55,437 175,235 475,721 3 Years later 165 73,647 210,100 4 Years later 196 69,118 5 Years later 196 For an analysis of paid, unpaid and incurred losses and loss expenses and a reconciliation of beginning and ending losses and loss expense reserves for 2006, 2005 and 2004 together with information regarding the development of prior year loss reserve estimates refer to Note 7 of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report. 14 Cash and Investments The table below shows our portfolio of investments and cash and cash equivalents: At December 31 2006 2005 Amortized Amortized Cost Fair Value Cost Fair Value (in thousands) U.S. government and agency securities $ 1,190,700 $ 1,177,911 $ 1,589,640 $ 1,572,411 Non U.S. government securities 146,847 153,258 143,534 137,496 Corporate debt securities 1,423,146 1,418,553 1,236,928 1,219,878 Mortgage-backed securities 2,896,362 2,868,578 2,466,324 2,433,649 Asset-backed securities 540,118 538,350 295,043 291,824 Municipals 377,076 376,073 359,529 357,167 Total Fixed Maturities 6,574,249 6,532,723 6,090,998 6,012,425 Cash at investment managers, net of unsettled trades 811,295 811,295 197,604 197,604 Total Invested Assets 7,385,544 7,344,018 6,288,602 6,210,029 Other cash and cash equivalents 1,115,807 1,115,807 1,083,310 1,083,310 Total Cash and Fixed Maturities $ 8,501,351 $ 8,459,825 $ 7,371,912 $ 7,293,339 Other Investments 1,130,664 409,504 Total cash and invesments $ 9,590,489 $ 7,702,843 Our current investment strategy seeks to preserve principal and maintain liquidity while trying to maximize investment return through a high quality, diversified portfolio. In this regard, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, our investment portfolio consisted primarily of fixed income securities and cash and cash equivalents. A significant portion of our fixed income securities and cash provide liquidity to settle claims which arise from our operations and as such, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, all of the fixed income securities were investment grade with 84.1% and 82.1%, respectively, rated AA- or better, with an overall weighted average rating of AA+, based on ratings assigned by Standard & Poor’s. Our investment policy is to invest primarily in debt instruments of high credit quality issuers and to limit the amount of credit exposure with respect to particular ratings categories and any one issuer. Within this fixed income portfolio, we attempt to limit our credit exposure by purchasing fixed income investments rated BBB- or higher. In addition, we have limited our exposure to any single corporate issuer to 5% or less of our portfolio for securities rated A-/A3 or above and 2% or less of our portfolio for securities rated between BBB-/Baa3 and BBB+/Baa1. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, we did not have an aggregate exposure to any single issuer of 10% of more of our shareholders’ equity, other than with respect to U.S. government and agency securities. The current duration target range for our investment portfolios is two to four years. The duration of an investment is based on the maturity of the security and also reflects the payment of interest and the possibility of early principal payment of such security. We seek to use investment performance benchmarks that reflect this duration target. Management periodically revises these investment benchmarks based on business and economic factors, including the average duration of our potential liabilities. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, our invested assets (assets under management by external investment managers) had an approximate average duration of 3.0 years. When incorporating our operating cash into this calculation, the average duration at December 31, 2006 and 2005 is reduced to 2.6 years. The finance committee of our board of directors establishes our investment policies and creates guidelines for external investment managers. Management implements the investment strategy with the assistance of those external managers. These guidelines specify minimum criteria on the overall credit 15 quality and liquidity characteristics of the portfolio and include limitations on the size of some holdings as well as restrictions on purchasing some types of securities. Beginning in 2004, we began to allocate funds to our other investments portfolio as part of a diversification program. These funds represent a portion of our capital and are invested to maximize investment returns within a defined level of risk over a longer period of time, while reducing the correlation of returns with those from US high grade fixed income securities. The finance committee of our board of directors review each of these investments made to ensure they are within our approved strategic and tactical asset allocation targets. Other investments portfolio consists of collateralized loan obligations (“CLOs”), investment funds (such as short duration high yield fund, credit funds, and fund of hedge funds) and life settlement contracts. We account for other investments at fair value (see Item 7, Critical Accounting Estimates—Other Investments). The table below summarizes the fair values of other investments: At December 31 2006 2005 (in thousands) Life settlement contracts $ 377,767 $ — Collateralized loan obligations 263,621 192,986 Fund of hedge funds 235,377 106,077 Credit funds 156,337 48,897 Short duration high yield fund 97,562 61,544 Total $ 1,130,664 $ 409,504 For additional information regarding the investment portfolio, including analysis of sector, rating and maturity distributions, refer to Note 6 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8. For information on the performance of our investment portfolio in 2006, 2005 and 2004, refer to Item 7 of this report. Ratings Ratings by independent agencies are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance and reinsurance companies and are important to our ability to market and sell our products. Rating organizations continually review the financial positions of insurers, including ourselves. Standard & Poor’s maintains a letter scale rating system ranging from “AAA” (extremely strong) to “R” (under regulatory supervision). A.M. Best maintains a letter scale rating system ranging from “A++” (superior) to “F” (in liquidation). Moody’s Investors Service maintains a letter scale rating from “Aaa” (exceptional) to “NP” (not prime). Our insurance subsidiaries have been rated “A” (strong) by Standard & Poor’s, which is the sixth highest of twenty-one rating levels, and “A” (excellent) by A.M. Best, which is the third highest of fifteen rating levels. AXIS Specialty Bermuda, AXIS Re Ireland and AXIS Re U.S. are rated “A2” (good) by Moody’s Investors Service, which is the sixth highest of 21 ratings. The objective of these ratings systems is to assist policyholders and to provide an opinion of an insurer’s or reinsurer’s financial strength and ability to meet ongoing obligations to its policyholders. In addition, our $500 million of senior notes were assigned a senior unsecured debt rating of Baa1 (stable) by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB+ (stable) by Standard & Poor’s. Our Series A and B preferred shares are rated Baa3 (stable) by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by Standard and Poor’s. These ratings are subject to periodic review by, and may be revised downward or revoked, at the sole discretion of the rating agencies. Administration We outsource a number of functions to third parties that can provide levels of service/expertise in a more cost-efficient manner than we could replicate internally. In certain areas this also provides us with 16 the flexibility to adjust quickly our administrative infrastructure and costs in response to changing market conditions. Functions that we outsource or partially outsource include, but are not limited to the following: · bulk contract processing and administration; · actuarial (reserving) services; · internal audit and Sarbanes-Oxley 404 management testing; · investment accounting services; and · claims processing. Regulation General The business of insurance and reinsurance is regulated in most countries, although the degree and type of regulation varies significantly from one jurisdiction to another. Bermuda As a holding company, AXIS Capital is not subject to Bermuda insurance regulations. However, the Insurance Act 1978 of Bermuda and related regulations, as amended (together, the “Insurance Act”), regulate the insurance business of our operating subsidiary in Bermuda, AXIS Specialty Bermuda, and provide that no person may carry on any insurance business in or from within Bermuda unless registered as an insurer by the Bermuda Monetary Authority (the “BMA”) under the Insurance Act. Insurance as well as reinsurance is regulated under the Insurance Act. The Insurance Act also imposes on Bermuda insurance companies solvency and liquidity standards and auditing and reporting requirements and grants the BMA powers to supervise, investigate, require information and the production of documents and intervene in the affairs of insurance companies. The material aspects of the Bermuda insurance regulatory framework are set forth below. Classification of Insurers The Insurance Act distinguishes between insurers carrying on long-term business and insurers carrying on general business. There are four classifications of insurers carrying on general business, with Class 4 insurers subject to the strictest regulation. AXIS Specialty Bermuda, which is incorporated to carry on general insurance and reinsurance business, is registered as a Class 4 insurer in Bermuda and is regulated as such under the Insurance Act. AXIS Specialty Bermuda is not licensed to carry on long-term business. Long-term business broadly includes life insurance and disability insurance with terms in excess of five years. General business broadly includes all types of insurance that are not long-term business. Principal Representative An insurer is required to maintain a principal office in Bermuda and to appoint and maintain a principal representative in Bermuda. Independent Approved Auditor Every registered insurer must appoint an independent auditor who will audit and report annually on the statutory financial statements and the statutory financial return of the insurer, both of which, in the case of AXIS Specialty Bermuda, are required to be filed annually with the BMA. AXIS Specialty Bermuda’s independent auditor must be approved by the BMA and may be the same person or firm that audits AXIS Capital’s consolidated financial statements and reports for presentation to its shareholders. 17 Loss Reserve Specialist As a registered Class 4 insurer, AXIS Specialty Bermuda is required to submit an opinion of its approved loss reserve specialist with its statutory financial return in respect of its losses and loss expenses provisions. The loss reserve specialist, who will normally be a qualified casualty actuary, must be approved by the BMA. Annual Statutory Financial Return and Statutory Financial Statements AXIS Specialty Bermuda is required to file with the BMA a statutory financial return no later than four months after its financial year end unless specifically extended upon application to the BMA. The statutory financial return for a Class 4 insurer includes, among other matters, a report of the approved independent auditor on the statutory financial statements of the insurer, solvency certificates, the statutory financial statements, the opinion of the loss reserve specialist and a schedule of reinsurance ceded. The statutory financial statements are not prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and are distinct from the financial statements prepared for presentation to an insurer’s shareholders under The Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda (the “Companies Act”). Minimum Solvency Margin and Restrictions on Dividends and Distributions Under the Insurance Act, the value of the general business assets of a Class 4 insurer, such as AXIS Specialty Bermuda, must exceed the amount of its general business liabilities by an amount greater than the prescribed minimum solvency margin. AXIS Specialty Bermuda is required, with respect to its general business, to maintain a minimum solvency margin equal to the greatest of: · $100,000,000; · 50% of net premiums written (being gross premiums written less any premiums ceded by AXIS Specialty Bermuda, but AXIS Specialty Bermuda may not deduct more than 25% of gross premiums written when computing net premiums written); and · 15% of net losses and loss expense reserves. AXIS Specialty Bermuda is prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends during any financial year if it is in breach of its minimum solvency margin or minimum liquidity ratio or if the declaration or payment of such dividends would cause it to fail to meet such margin or ratio. In addition, if it has failed to meet its minimum solvency margin or minimum liquidity ratio on the last day of any financial year, AXIS Specialty Bermuda will be prohibited, without the approval of the BMA, from declaring or paying any dividends during the next financial year. AXIS Specialty Bermuda is also prohibited from declaring or paying in any financial year dividends of more than 25% of its total statutory capital and surplus (as shown on its previous financial year’s statutory balance sheet) unless it files with the BMA, at least seven days before payment of such dividends, an affidavit stating that it will continue to meet the required margins. AXIS Specialty Bermuda is prohibited, without the approval of the BMA, from reducing by 15% or more its total statutory capital as set out in its previous year’s financial statements, and any application for such approval must include an affidavit stating that it will continue to meet the required margins. In addition, at any time it fails to meet its solvency margin, AXIS Specialty Bermuda is required, within 30 days (45 days where total statutory capital and surplus falls to $75 million or less) after becoming aware of such failure or having reason to believe that such failure has occurred, to file with the BMA a written report containing certain information. Additionally, under the Companies Act, AXIS Capital and AXIS Specialty Bermuda may declare or pay a dividend, or make a distribution from contributed surplus, only if it has no reasonable grounds for believing that it is, or would after the payment be, unable to pay its liabilities as they become due, or that 18 the realizable value of its assets would thereby be less than the aggregate of its liabilities and its issued share capital and share premium accounts. Minimum Liquidity Ratio The Insurance Act provides a minimum liquidity ratio for general business insurers, like AXIS Specialty Bermuda. An insurer engaged in general business is required to maintain the value of its relevant assets at not less than 75% of the amount of its relevant liabilities. Relevant assets include, but are not limited to, cash and time deposits, quoted investments, unquoted bonds and debentures, first liens on real estate, investment income due and accrued, accounts and premiums receivable and reinsurance balances receivable. There are some categories of assets which, unless specifically permitted by the BMA, do not automatically qualify as relevant assets, such as unquoted equity securities, investments in and advances to affiliates and real estate and collateral loans. The relevant liabilities are total general business insurance reserves and total other liabilities less deferred income tax and sundry liabilities (by interpretation, those not specifically defined). Supervision and Investigation The Insurance Act confers on the BMA wide-ranging powers in relation to the supervision and investigation of insurers. Disclosure of Information In addition to powers under the Insurance Act to investigate the affairs of an insurer, the BMA may require information from an insurer (or other persons) to be produced to the BMA. Further, the BMA has been given powers to assist other regulatory authorities, including foreign insurance regulatory authorities, with their investigations involving insurance and reinsurance companies in Bermuda. Under the Companies Act, the Minister of Finance has been given powers to assist a foreign financial regulator that has requested assistance in connection with inquires being carried out by it in the performance of its regulatory functions. The Minister’s powers include requiring a person to furnish him or her with information, to produce documents to him or her, to attend and answer questions and to give assistance in connection with inquiries. Shareholder Controllers Any person who, directly or indirectly, becomes a holder of at least 10 percent, 20 percent, 33 percent or 50 percent of the common shares of AXIS Capital must notify the BMA in writing within 45 days of becoming such a holder or 30 days from the date they have knowledge of having such a holding, whichever is later. The BMA may, by written notice, object to such a person if it appears to the BMA that the person is not fit and proper to be such a holder. The BMA may require the holder to reduce their holding of common shares in AXIS Capital and direct, among other things, that voting rights attaching to the common shares shall not be exercisable. A person that does not comply with such a notice or direction from the BMA will be guilty of an offence. For so long as AXIS Capital has as a subsidiary an insurer registered under the Insurance Act, the BMA may at any time, by written notice, object to a person holding 10 percent or more of the its common shares if it appears to the BMA that the person is not or is no longer fit and proper to be such a holder. In such a case, the BMA may require the shareholder to reduce its holding of common shares in AXIS Capital and direct, among other things, that such shareholder’s voting rights attaching to the common shares shall not be exercisable. A person who does not comply with such a notice or direction from the BMA will be guilty of an offence. 19 Other Bermuda Law Considerations Although AXIS Capital is incorporated in Bermuda, it is classified as a non-resident of Bermuda for exchange control purposes by the BMA. Pursuant to its non-resident status, AXIS Capital may engage in transactions in currencies other than Bermuda dollars and there are no restrictions on its ability to transfer funds (other than funds denominated in Bermuda dollars) in and out of Bermuda or to pay dividends and interest payments to U.S. residents who are holders of its securities. Under Bermuda law, exempted companies are companies formed for the purpose of conducting business outside Bermuda from a principal place of business in Bermuda. As “exempted” companies, AXIS Capital and AXIS Specialty Bermuda may not, without the express authorization of the Bermuda legislature or under a license or consent granted by the Minister of Finance, participate in certain business transactions, including: (1) the acquisition or holding of land in Bermuda, subject to some exceptions; (2) the taking of mortgages on land in Bermuda to secure an amount in excess of $50,000; or (3) the carrying on of business of any kind for which it is not licensed in Bermuda, except in limited circumstances such as doing business with another exempted undertaking in furtherance of AXIS Capital’s business or AXIS Specialty Bermuda’s business (as the case may be) carried on outside Bermuda. AXIS Specialty Bermuda is a licensed insurer in Bermuda, and so may carry on activities from Bermuda that are related to and in support of its insurance business. Securities may be offered or sold in Bermuda only in compliance with the provisions of the Investment Business Act 2003 of Bermuda, which regulates the sale of securities in Bermuda. In addition, the BMA must approve all issuances and transfers of securities of a Bermuda exempted company. The BMA has issued its permission for the free transferability of our securities, as long as our shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange or other appointed stock exchange, to and among persons who are non-residents of Bermuda for exchange control purposes and up to 20% of the common shares to and among persons who are residents of Bermuda for exchange control purposes. Any other transfers remain subject to approval by the BMA. The Bermuda government actively encourages foreign investment in “exempted” entities like AXIS Capital and AXIS Specialty Bermuda that are based in Bermuda, but which do not operate in competition with local businesses. AXIS Capital and AXIS Specialty Bermuda are not currently subject to taxes computed on profits or income or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax or to any foreign exchange controls in Bermuda. Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians (other than spouses of Bermudians, holders of a permanent resident’s certificate or holders of a working resident’s certificate) may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without an appropriate governmental work permit. Work permits may be granted or extended by the Bermuda government upon showing that, after proper public advertisement in most cases, no Bermudian (or spouse of a Bermudian, holder of a permanent resident’s certificate or holder of a working resident’s certificate) is available who meets the minimum standard requirements for the advertised position. In 2001, the Bermuda government announced a new immigration policy limiting the duration of work permits to between six and nine years, with specified exemptions for “key” employees. In March 2004, the Bermuda government announced an amendment to the immigration policy which expanded the categories of occupations recognized by the government as “key” and for which businesses are eligible to apply for holders of jobs in those categories to be exempt from the six to nine year term limits. The categories include senior executives (chief executive officers, presidents through vice presidents), managers with global responsibility, senior financial posts (treasurers, chief financial officers through controllers, specialized qualified accountants, quantitative modeling analysts), certain legal professionals (general counsels, specialist attorneys, qualified legal librarians and knowledge managers), senior insurance professionals (senior underwriters, senior claims adjustors), experienced/specialized brokers, actuaries, specialist investment traders/analysts and senior information technology 20 engineers/managers. All executive officers who work in our Bermuda office that require work permits have obtained them. United States AXIS Capital has four operating insurance subsidiaries domiciled in the United States, which we refer to as the AXIS U.S. Subsidiaries. U.S. Insurance Holding Company Regulation of AXIS Capital AXIS Capital, as the indirect parent of the AXIS U.S. Subsidiaries, is subject to the insurance holding company laws of Connecticut, New York and Illinois. These laws generally require each of the AXIS U.S. Subsidiaries to register with its respective domestic state insurance department and to furnish annually financial and other information about the operations of companies within the holding company system. Generally, all material transactions among companies in the holding company system to which any of the AXIS U.S. Subsidiaries is a party, including sales, loans, reinsurance agreements and service agreements, must be fair and, if material or of a specified category, require prior notice and approval or non-disapproval by the insurance department where the subsidiary is domiciled. Change of Control Before a person can acquire control of a United States insurance company, prior written approval must be obtained from the insurance commissioner of the state where the domestic insurer is domiciled. Prior to granting approval of an application to acquire control of a domestic insurer, the state insurance commissioner will consider such factors as: the financial strength of the applicant, the integrity and management of the applicant’s board of directors and executive officers, the acquiror’s plans for the management of the applicant’s board of directors and executive officers, the acquiror’s plans for the future operations of the domestic insurer and any anti-competitive results that may arise from the consummation of the acquisition of control. Generally, state statutes provide that control over a domestic insurer is presumed to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, owns, controls, holds with the power to vote, or holds proxies representing, 10% or more of the voting securities of the domestic insurer. Because a person acquiring 10% or more of our common shares would indirectly control the same percentage of the stock of the AXIS U.S. Subsidiaries, the insurance change of control laws of Connecticut, Illinois and New York would likely apply to such a transaction. While our bye-laws limit the voting power of any shareholder to less than 9.5%, there can be no assurance that the applicable state insurance regulator would agree that a shareholder who owned 10% of our common shares did not control the applicable AXIS U.S. Subsidiary. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of AXIS Capital, including transactions that some or all of the shareholders of AXIS Capital might consider to be desirable. Terrorism Risk Insurance Act On November 26, 2002, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act (“TRIA”) was enacted. TRIA established a temporary Federal program that requires United States and other insurers writing specified commercial property and casualty insurance policies in the United States to make available in some policies coverage for losses resulting from terrorists’ acts committed by foreign persons or interests in the United States or with respect to specified U.S. air carriers, vessels or missions abroad. The coverage made available may not differ materially from the terms, amounts and other coverage limitations applicable to losses arising from events other than acts of terrorism. The program had been set to expire on December 31, 2005; however, on December 22, 2005, the President of the United States signed into law the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005, which modified and extended the existing program. 21 Under TRIA, as amended, if an act is determined to be a covered terrorist act, then losses resulting from the act are ultimately shared among insurers, the federal government and policyholders. Generally, insurers must retain a defined deductible and 10% (15% in 2007) of losses above the deductible but can obtain reimbursement from the federal government for their covered losses in excess of those amounts, once certain aggregate industry loss triggers are met. An insurer’s deductible for 2006 is 17.5% of the insurer’s 2005 direct earned premiums on TRIA covered lines and for 2007 is 20% of the insurer’s 2006 direct earned premiums on TRIA covered lines. Total reimbursement by the federal government is limited to $100 billion each year, and no insurer that has met its deductible shall be liable for the payment of its portion of the aggregate industry insurer loss that exceeds $100 billion. As amended, the entire TRIA program, including provisions authorizing Federal reimbursement of insurers and the requirement to make coverage available, will expire at the end of 2007 unless the Congress passes and the President signs legislation extending this program. State Insurance Regulation State insurance authorities have broad regulatory powers with respect to various aspects of the business of U.S. insurance companies, including: licensing to transact business, accreditation of reinsurers, admittance of assets to statutory surplus, regulating unfair trade and claims practices, establishing reserve requirements and solvency standards, regulating investments and dividends, approving policy forms and related materials in some instances and approving premium rates in some instances. State insurance laws and regulations may require the AXIS U.S. Subsidiaries to file financial statements with insurance departments everywhere they are licensed or authorized or accredited to conduct insurance business, and their operations are subject to examination by those departments at any time. The AXIS U.S. Subsidiaries prepare statutory financial statements in accordance with statutory accounting principles (“SAP”) and procedures prescribed or permitted by these departments. State insurance departments also conduct periodic examinations of the books and records, financial reporting, policy filings and market conduct of insurance companies domiciled in their states, generally once every three to five years. Examinations are generally carried out in cooperation with the insurance departments of other states under guidelines promulgated by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”). The terms and conditions of reinsurance agreements generally are not subject to regulation by any U.S. state insurance department with respect to rates or policy terms. As a practical matter, however, the rates charged by primary insurers do have an effect on the rates that can be charged by reinsurers. State Dividend Limitations New York. Under New York law, the New York Superintendent of Insurance must approve any dividend declared or paid by AXIS Re U.S. that, together with all dividends declared or distributed by it during the preceding twelve months, exceeds the lesser of 10% of AXIS Re U.S.’s statutory surplus as shown on its latest statutory financial statement on file with the New York Superintendent of Insurance, or 100% of AXIS Re U.S.’s adjusted net investment income during that period. New York does not permit a dividend to be declared or distributed, except out of earned surplus. Connecticut. Under Connecticut law, AXIS Specialty U.S. may not pay a dividend or make a distribution that exceeds the greater of 10% of AXIS Specialty U.S. statutory surplus as of December 31 of the preceding year, or the net income of AXIS Specialty U.S. for the twelve-month period ending December 31of the preceding year, without the prior approval of the Connecticut Insurance Commissioner unless thirty days have passed after receipt by the Insurance Commissioner of notice of such payment without the Insurance Commissioner having disapproved of such payment. In addition, AXIS Specialty U.S. must report for informational purposes to the Insurance Commissioner all dividends and other distributions to security holders following the declaration and prior to payment. Connecticut only permits a dividend to be declared or distributed, either out of earned surplus or with prior regulatory approval. 22 Illinois. Under Illinois law, AXIS Surplus U.S. and AXIS Insurance U.S. may not pay a dividend or make a distribution that exceeds the greater of 10% of the company’s surplus as of December 31 of the preceding year, or the net income of the company, for the twelve-month period ending December 31 of the preceding year, until thirty days after the Illinois Director of Insurance has received notice and the Director of Insurance has not disapproved of such payment or until the Director of Insurance has approved such payment within the thirty day period. In addition, AXIS Surplus U.S. and AXIS Insurance U.S. must report to the Director of Insurance all dividends and distributions to shareholders following declaration and prior to payment. Illinois does not permit a dividend to be declared or paid, except out of earned surplus. The dividend limitations imposed by the state laws are based on the statutory financial results of the respective AXIS U.S. Subsidiaries determined by using SAP, which differ in some respects from accounting principles used in financial statements prepared in conformity with U.S. GAAP. The significant differences relate to deferred acquisition costs, investment valuation and deferred income taxes. Risk-Based Capital Regulations Connecticut and Illinois require that each domestic insurer report their risk-based capital based on a formula calculated by applying factors to various asset, premium and reserve items. The formula takes into account the risk characteristics of the insurer, including asset risk and insurance risk. Insurance risk takes into consideration that pricing may not be adequate and that loss reserves held might develop adversely. The respective state insurance regulators use the formula as an early warning regulatory tool to identify possibly inadequately capitalized insurers for purposes of initiating regulatory action, and not as a means to rank insurers generally. State insurance laws impose broad confidentiality requirements on those engaged in the insurance business (including insurers, agents, brokers and others) and on state insurance departments as to the use and publication of risk-based capital data. The respective state insurance regulators have explicit financial regulator authority to require various actions by, or to take various actions against, insurers whose total adjusted capital does not exceed certain risk-based capital levels. The New York Insurance Department requires domestic property and casualty insurers to report their risk-based capital. A bill is pending before the New York state legislature that would codify this regulatory requirement. Each of AXIS Re U.S., AXIS Specialty U.S., AXIS Surplus U.S. and AXIS Insurance U.S. have risk-based capital in excess of the required levels. Guaranty Associations and Similar Arrangements Most of the jurisdictions in which the AXIS U.S. Subsidiaries are admitted to transact business require property and casualty insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations, which are organized to pay contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. These associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer is engaged. Some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. Operations of AXIS Specialty Bermuda, AXIS Re Ireland, AXIS Specialty Ireland, AXIS Re Europe and AXIS Specialty London. The insurance laws of each state of the United States and of many other countries regulate or prohibit the sale of insurance and reinsurance within their jurisdictions by non-domestic insurers and reinsurers that are not admitted to do business within such jurisdictions. AXIS Specialty Ireland (including its branch AXIS Specialty London) is authorized to write surplus lines business in 42 states in the United States and is in the process of applying for authorization to write surplus lines business in the remaining states. AXIS Specialty Bermuda, AXIS Re Ireland and AXIS Re Europe are not licensed or eligible to write business in 23 the United States. We do not intend that AXIS Specialty Bermuda, AXIS Re Ireland, AXIS Specialty Ireland, AXIS Re Europe and AXIS Specialty London maintain offices or solicit, advertise, settle claims or conduct other insurance activities in any jurisdiction in the United States where the conduct of such activities would require these companies to be admitted or authorized. In addition to the regulatory requirements imposed by the jurisdictions in which they are licensed, reinsurers’ business operations are affected by regulatory requirements in various states of the United States governing “credit for reinsurance” that are imposed on their ceding companies. In general, a ceding company obtaining reinsurance from a reinsurer that is licensed, accredited or approved by the jurisdiction or state in which the ceding company files statutory financial statements is permitted to reflect in its statutory financial statements a credit in an aggregate amount equal to the ceding company’s liability for unearned premiums (which are that portion of premiums written which applies to the unexpired portion of the policy period), loss reserves and loss expense reserves ceded to the reinsurer. Neither AXIS Specialty Bermuda nor AXIS Re Ireland are licensed, accredited or approved in any state in the United States. The great majority of states, however, permit a credit to statutory surplus resulting from reinsurance obtained from a non-licensed or non-accredited reinsurer to be recognized to the extent that the reinsurer provides a letter of credit, trust fund or other acceptable security arrangement. A few states do not allow credit for reinsurance ceded to non-licensed reinsurers except in certain limited circumstances and others impose additional requirements that make it difficult to become accredited. Ireland AXIS Specialty Ireland AXIS Specialty Ireland is a non-life insurance company incorporated under the laws of Ireland. AXIS Specialty Ireland is subject to the regulation and supervision of the Irish Financial Services Regulatory Authority (the “Irish Financial Regulator”) pursuant to the Irish Insurance Acts 1909 to 2000, regulations relating to insurance business and the Central Bank and Financial Services Authority of Ireland Acts 2003 and 2004 (together, the “the Insurance Acts and Regulations”). AXIS Specialty Ireland is authorized to undertake the business of non-life insurance in various classes of business. As is normal in the case of insurance companies, when AXIS Specialty Ireland was authorized to write non-life insurance business, in addition to the obligations imposed on AXIS Specialty Ireland by the Insurance Acts and Regulations, the authorization was granted subject to certain conditions. The following are the main conditions that have been imposed: · AXIS Specialty Ireland must adhere to the business plan submitted in connection with its application for authorization unless otherwise agreed with the Irish Financial Regulator; · AXIS Specialty Ireland is not permitted to reduce the level of its capital without the consent of the Irish Financial Regulator; · AXIS Specialty Ireland may not make any dividend payments without the Irish Financial Regulator’s prior approval; · No intercompany loans may be made by AXIS Specialty Ireland without prior notification to and approval of the Irish Financial Regulator; · The management accounts of AXIS Capital must be submitted to the Irish Financial Regulator on a quarterly basis for the initial years of operation of AXIS Specialty Ireland; · AXIS Specialty Ireland must maintain a minimum solvency margin equal to 200% of the solvency margin laid down by the Insurance Acts and Regulations (and a solvency ratio of 50%); and 24 · AXIS Specialty Ireland must file annual statutory insurance returns in the format prescribed by the European Communities (Non-Life Insurance Accounts) Regulations, 1995. In addition to the above conditions, AXIS Specialty Ireland has agreed with the Irish Financial Regulator to limit the level of treaty reinsurance business that it underwrites. European Passport. Ireland is a member of the European Economic Area (the “EEA”), which comprises each of the countries of the European Union (the “EU”) and some additional countries. Ireland has adopted the EU’s Third Non-Life Insurance Directive (92/49/EEC) into Irish law. This directive introduced a single system for the authorization and financial supervision of non-life insurance companies by their home member state. Under this system, AXIS Specialty Ireland (as an Irish authorized insurance company) is permitted to carry on insurance business in any other EEA member state by way of freedom to provide services, on the basis that it has notified the Irish Financial Regulator of its intention to do so and subject to complying with such conditions as may be laid down by the regulator of the jurisdiction in which the insurance activities are carried out for reasons of the “general good”. The Third Non-Life Directive also permits AXIS Specialty Ireland to carry on insurance business in any other EEA member state under the so called “freedom of establishment” rules. Under these rules, AXIS Specialty Ireland established a London branch in May 2003. The Irish Financial Regulator remains responsible for the authorization and financial supervision of the London branch. In addition, the London branch must comply with the “general good” requirements of the Financial Services Authority of the United Kingdom. On the basis of the foregoing, in addition to being authorized to carry on non-life insurance business in Ireland, AXIS Specialty Ireland is also authorized to carry on non-life insurance business in all other EEA member states under freedom to provide services (and also, in the case of the United Kingdom, under freedom of establishment). However, AXIS Specialty Ireland is not licensed as an insurance company in any jurisdiction other than Ireland and the other EEA member states. Qualifying Holding. The Insurance Acts and Regulations require that anyone acquiring or disposing of a “qualifying holding” in an insurance company (such as AXIS Specialty Ireland), or anyone who proposes to decrease or increase that holding to specified levels, must first notify the Irish Financial Regulator of their intention to do so. It also requires any insurance company that becomes aware of any acquisitions or disposals of its capital involving the “specified levels” to notify the Irish Financial Regulator. A “qualifying holding” means a direct or indirect holding in an insurance company that represents 10% or more of the capital or of the voting rights of such company or that makes it possible to exercise a significant influence over the management of such company. The specified levels are 20%, 33% and 50%, or such other level of ownership that results in the company becoming the acquiror’s subsidiary. Any person having a holding of 10% or more of the capital or voting rights of AXIS Capital would be considered to have an indirect holding in AXIS Specialty Ireland over the 10% limit. AXIS Specialty Ireland is required, at such times as may be specified by the Irish Financial Regulator, and at least once a year, to notify the Irish Financial Regulator of the names of persons possessing qualifying holdings and the size of such holdings. Transactions with Related Companies. The Insurance Acts and Regulations provide that prior to entering into any transaction of a material nature with a related company or companies (including, in particular, the provision of loans to and acceptance of loans from a related company or companies), AXIS Specialty Ireland must submit to the Irish Financial Regulator a draft of any contract or agreement that is to be entered into by AXIS Specialty Ireland in relation to the transaction. In addition, AXIS Specialty Ireland must notify the Irish Financial Regulator on an annual basis with respect to transactions with related companies in excess of EUR 10,000. 25 Financial Requirements. AXIS Specialty Ireland is required to maintain technical reserves calculated in accordance with the Insurance Acts and Regulations. Assets representing its technical reserves are required to cover AXIS Specialty Ireland’s calculated underwriting liabilities. In addition to filing various statutory returns with the Irish Financial Regulator, AXIS Specialty Ireland is obligated to prepare annual accounts (comprising balance sheet, profit and loss account and notes) in accordance with the provisions of the European Communities (Insurance Undertakings: Accounts) Regulations, 1996 (the “Insurance Accounts Regulations”). The accounts must be filed with the Irish Financial Regulator and with the Registrar of Companies in Ireland. Additionally, AXIS Specialty Ireland is required to establish and maintain an adequate solvency margin and a minimum guarantee fund, both of which must be free from all foreseeable liabilities. Currently, the solvency margin is calculated as the higher amount of a percentage of the annual amount of premiums (premiums basis) or the average burden of claims, generally for the last three years (claims basis). The amount of premiums or, as the case may be, claims is subject to a 50% increase in the case of certain types of liability business. As noted above with respect to the conditions attaching to AXIS Specialty Ireland’s authorization, AXIS Specialty Ireland is required to have a solvency margin significantly in excess of the prescribed minimum. The amount of the minimum guarantee fund that AXIS Specialty Ireland is required to maintain is equal to one-third of the solvency margin requirement as set out above, subject to a minimum. Regulatory Guidelines. In addition to the Insurance Acts and Regulations, AXIS Specialty Ireland is expected to comply with guidelines issued by the Irish Financial Regulator in July 2001. The following are the most relevant guidelines: · All insurance companies supervised by the Irish Financial Regulator are obliged to appoint a compliance officer, who must carry out the duties and functions set forth in the guidelines; · All directors of insurance companies supervised by the Irish Financial Regulator are required to certify to the Irish Financial Regulator on an annual basis that the company has complied with all relevant legal and regulatory requirements throughout the year; · All insurance companies must adopt an appropriate asset management policy having regard to its liabilities profile; · All companies supervised by the Irish Financial Regulator must formulate a clear and prudent policy on the use of derivatives for all purposes and, furthermore, have controls in place to ensure that the policy is implemented; · Non-life companies supervised by the Irish Financial Regulator such as AXIS Specialty Ireland are required to provide an annual actuarial opinion as to the adequacy of their reserves; and · All insurance companies must have a reinsurance strategy approved by its board of directors that is appropriate to their risk profile. Supervision and Investigation. The Insurance Acts and Regulations confer on the Irish Financial Regulator wide-ranging powers in relation to the supervision and investigation of insurers. AXIS Re Ireland AXIS Re Ireland is a reinsurance company incorporated under the laws of Ireland and is subject to the regulation and supervision of the Irish Financial Regulator. The European Communities (Reinsurance) Regulations 2006 (the “Regulations”) came into effect on July 15, 2006 and Ireland thereby became the first EU member state to implement the European 26 Reinsurance Directive (the “Reinsurance Directive”). The Regulations introduce a comprehensive framework for the authorization and supervision of reinsurers in Ireland for the first time. The Reinsurance Directive provides for a single passport system within Europe for reinsurers similar to that which currently applies to direct insurers. The Reinsurance Directive provides that the authorization and supervision of European reinsurers is the responsibility of the EU member where the head office of the relevant reinsurer is located (known as the “home state”). Once authorized in its home state, a reinsurer is automatically entitled to conduct reinsurance business in all EU member states under the principles of freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services. The Directive provides that the financial supervision of a reinsurer, including that of the business it carries on in other member states, either through branches or under the freedom to provide services, is the sole responsibility of the home state. Reinsurers are required to maintain assets covering technical reserves and, in the case of credit reinsurers, equalization reserves. Reinsurers are also required to maintain a solvency margin of assets free of any foreseeable liabilities. In the case of a reinsurer such as AXIS Re Ireland, the required solvency margin is the higher of a premium basis or a claims basis calculation as set out in the Regulations. The Irish Financial Regulator will be encouraging companies to have a solvency margin of at least 150% of the figure calculated in accordance with the Regulations. If a reinsurer falls below 150% of the required solvency margin, it will be required to engage in discussions with the Irish Financial Regulator and may have to report to the Irish Financial Regulator more frequently than would otherwise be the case. Reinsurers are also required to maintain a minimum guarantee fund, which must contain funds equivalent to at least one-third of the reinsurer’s required solvency margin and, for reinsurers such as AXIS Re Ireland, must not be less than EUR 3,000,000. All Irish reinsurers established before December 10, 2005 (including AXIS Re Ireland) are deemed to be authorized under the Regulations, subject to complying with certain requirements not later than December 10, 2007. The Irish Financial Regulator requested all such non-life reinsurers to submit a statement of compliance by June 30, 2006 on the basis of their most recent audited financial statements and AXIS Re Ireland duly filed such a compliance statement. In addition, the Regulations require that anyone acquiring or disposing of a direct or indirect holding in an Irish authorized reinsurance company (such as AXIS Re Ireland) that represents 10% or more of the capital or of the voting rights of such company or that makes it possible to exercise a significant influence over the management of such company, or anyone who proposes to decrease or increase that holding to specified levels, must first notify the Irish Financial Regulator of their intention to do so. The Regulations also require any Irish authorized reinsurance company that becomes aware of any acquisitions or disposals of its capital involving the specified levels to notify the Irish Financial Regulator. The specified levels are 20%, 33% and 50% or such other level of ownership that results in the company becoming the acquiror’s subsidiary within the meaning of the Regulations. The Irish Financial Regulator has three months from the date of submission of a notification within which to oppose the proposed transaction on certain specified grounds. Other Irish Law Considerations. As each of AXIS Specialty Ireland, AXIS Re Ireland and AXIS Ireland Holdings are companies which are incorporated in Ireland and which carry on business in Ireland, they are subject to the laws and regulations of Ireland. Some of the applicable restrictions and obligations contained in the Irish Companies Acts, 1963 to 2006 (the “Companies Acts”) are as follows: · Irish company law applies capital maintenance rules. In particular, each of AXIS Specialty Ireland, AXIS Re Ireland and AXIS Ireland Holdings is restricted to declaring dividends only out of “profits available for distribution.” Profits available for distribution are a company’s accumulated realized profits less its accumulated realized losses. Such profits may not include profits previously utilized 27 either by distribution or capitalization and such losses do not include amounts previously written-off in a reduction or reorganization of capital; · Irish law restricts a company from entering into certain types of transactions with its directors and officers by either completely prohibiting such transactions or permitting them only subject to conditions; · All Irish companies are obliged to file prescribed returns in the Companies Registration Office annually and on the happening of certain events such as the creation of new shares, a change in directors or the passing of certain shareholder resolutions; · A statutory body (known as the Office of the Director of Corporate Enforcement) has power to carry out investigations into the affairs of Irish companies in circumstances prescribed in the Companies Acts; and · Civil and criminal sanctions exist for breaches of the Companies Acts. United Kingdom Under United Kingdom law, a company may only transact insurance and/or reinsurance business upon authorization. AXIS Specialty Bermuda, AXIS Re Ireland and AXIS Specialty Ireland are not authorized to transact insurance and/or reinsurance business in the United Kingdom, except as otherwise described above in “Ireland—AXIS Specialty Ireland—European Passport”. AXIS Specialty Ireland has established a branch office in the United Kingdom that allows it to transact business in the United Kingdom. Switzerland In September 2003, AXIS Re Ireland established a branch in Zurich, Switzerland named AXIS Re Europe. The activities of this branch are limited to reinsurance so it is not required to be licensed by the Swiss insurance regulatory authorities. Singapore In October 2004, AXIS Specialty Bermuda established a representative office in Singapore. The activities of this office are limited to referring business to AXIS Specialty Bermuda, so it is not required to be licensed by the Singapore insurance regulatory authorities. Employees As of February 23, 2007 we had 570 employees. We believe that our employee relations are excellent. None of our employees is subject to a collective bargaining agreement. Available Information We file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC (such as us) and the address of that site is (http://www.sec.gov). Our common shares are traded on the NYSE with the symbol “AXS” and you can review similar information concerning us at the office of the NYSE at 20 Broad Street, New York, New York, 10005. 28 Our Internet website address is http://www.axiscapital.com. Information contained in our website is not part of this report. We make available free of charge, including through our Internet website, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Current copies of the Charter for each of our Audit Committee, Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, Compensation Committee, Finance Committee and Executive Committee, as well as our Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Business Conduct, are available on our Internet website and are available, without charge, in print to any shareholder who requests it by contacting the Company’s Secretary at 92 Pitts Bay Road, Pembroke, Bermuda, HM 08. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Company Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by adverse development of losses related to Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. We have substantial exposure to losses resulting from natural disasters, including hurricanes. During the third and fourth quarters of 2005, Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma caused significant destruction in the Gulf Coast region of the United States. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our estimate of net losses and loss expenses from these hurricanes was $1,019.1 million. During 2006, we strengthened our estimate of our ultimate liability by a further $105.0 million to $1,124.1 million. At December 31, 2006, $767.0 million, or 68.2%, of our total estimate represented net paid losses. Our estimate of the ultimate net losses and loss expenses for our insurance and reinsurance segments was derived from a combination of the review of in-force contracts and loss information from our clients, brokers and loss adjusters. If our actual losses from these hurricanes are materially greater than our estimated losses, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Credit agency ratings of our insurance companies and our securities have become an increasingly important factor in maintaining the competitive position of our insurance and reinsurance companies and are also important in establishing the market value of our securities. Our ratings are subject to periodic review by, and may be revised downward or revoked at the sole discretion of, the rating agencies. If our losses from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita or Wilma materially exceed our estimates, or if additional large loss events occur, our ratings could be revised downward or revoked, which could result in a substantial loss of business and a reduction in the market value of our securities. See below, “Our operating subsidiaries are rated by rating agencies and a decline in these ratings could affect our standing among brokers and customers and cause our premiums and earnings to decrease.” We purchase reinsurance for our insurance and reinsurance operations in order to mitigate the volatility of losses upon our financial results. The occurrence of additional large loss events could reduce the reinsurance coverage that is available to us and could weaken the financial condition of our reinsurers, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. See below “If we choose to purchase reinsurance, we may be unable to do so, and if we successfully purchase reinsurance, we may be unable to collect.” Our future performance is difficult to predict because we have a limited operating history. We began our business in November 2001 and have a limited operating and financial history. As a result, there is limited historical financial and operating information available to help you evaluate our 29 performance. Because we are in the early stages of development, we face substantial business and financial risks and may suffer significant losses. We must continue to develop and maintain business relationships, operating procedures, management information and other systems and complete other tasks necessary to conduct our intended business activities. It is possible that we will not be successful in implementing our business strategy or accomplishing these necessary tasks. Our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by the occurrence of natural and man-made disasters. We have substantial exposure to unexpected losses resulting from natural disasters, man-made catastrophes and other catastrophic events. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including hurricanes, earthquakes, hailstorms, explosions, severe winter weather, fires, war, acts of terrorism, political instability and other natural or man-made disasters. In addition, we have written and intend to continue to write policies explicitly covering war, acts of terrorism and political risk. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable and our losses from catastrophes could be substantial. The occurrence of claims from catastrophic events is likely to result in substantial volatility in our results of operations or financial condition for any fiscal quarter or year. This volatility is compounded by accounting regulations that do not permit reinsurers to reserve for catastrophic events until they occur. Although we attempt to manage our exposure to such events, a single catastrophic event could affect multiple geographic zones or the frequency or severity of catastrophic events could exceed our estimates. In addition, increases in the values and concentrations of insured property and demand surge caused by the frequency of events may generate more volatility in the level of losses from catastrophic events. As a result, the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition and our ability to write new business. If actual claims exceed our loss reserves, our financial results could be adversely affected. Our results of operations and financial condition depend upon our ability to accurately assess the potential losses associated with the risks that we insure and reinsure. We establish loss reserves to cover our estimated liability for the payment of all losses and loss expenses incurred with respect to premiums earned on the policies that we write. Our operating history is limited and our loss history is insufficient to allow us currently to extrapolate reserves directly for most of our lines of business. Instead, our current loss reserves are primarily based on estimates involving actuarial and statistical projections of our expectations of the ultimate settlement and administration costs of claims incurred. We utilize actuarial models and historical insurance industry loss development patterns to establish appropriate loss reserves, as well as estimates of future trends in claims severity, frequency and other factors. Establishing an appropriate level of loss reserves is an inherently uncertain process. Accordingly, actual losses and loss expenses paid will deviate, perhaps substantially, from the reserve estimates reflected in our consolidated financial statements. If our loss reserves are determined to be inadequate, we will be required to increase loss reserves at the time of such determination and our net income will be reduced. If our net income is insufficient to absorb a required increase in our loss reserves, we would incur an operating loss and could incur a reduction of our capital. The failure of any of the loss limitation methods we employ could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We seek to mitigate our loss exposure by writing a number of our insurance and reinsurance contracts on an excess of loss basis. Excess of loss insurance and reinsurance indemnifies the insured against losses in excess of a specified amount. In addition, we limit the program size for each client on our insurance business and purchase reinsurance for many of our lines of business. In the case of proportional reinsurance treaties, we seek per occurrence limitations or loss and loss expense ratio caps to limit the 30 impact of losses from any one event. In proportional reinsurance, the reinsurer shares a proportional part of the premiums and losses of the reinsured. We cannot be sure that any of these loss limitation methods will be effective and mitigate our loss exposure. We also seek to limit our loss exposure by geographic diversification. Geographic zone limitations involve significant underwriting judgments, including the determination of the area of the zones and the inclusion of a particular policy within a particular zone’s limits. Various provisions of our policies, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum negotiated to limit our risks may not be enforceable in the manner we intend. As a result of these risks, one or more catastrophic or other events could result in claims that substantially exceed our expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance or reinsurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. One example of an emerging claims and coverage issue is whether some of the substantial losses from recent hurricanes are the result of storm surge, which is sometimes covered by insurance, or flood, which is generally not covered. Another example of an emerging coverage and claims issue is larger settlements and jury awards against professionals and corporate directors and officers covered by professional liability and directors’ and officers’ liability insurance. The risk associated with reinsurance underwriting could adversely affect us. In our reinsurance business, we do not separately evaluate each of the individual risks assumed under reinsurance treaties. This is common among reinsurers. Therefore, we are largely dependent on the original underwriting decisions made by insurers that reinsure their liabilities, or ceding companies. We are subject to the risk that the ceding companies may not have adequately evaluated the risks to be reinsured and that the premiums ceded may not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume. We could be adversely affected by the loss of one or more key executives or by an inability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our success depends on our ability to retain the services of our existing key executives and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in the future. The loss of the services of any of our key executives or the inability to hire and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. We do not maintain key man life insurance policies with respect to our employees, except for our Chief Executive Officer and President, John R. Charman. On February 6, 2006, Mr. Charman informed us that he intends to retire on December 31, 2008. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company will be successful in identifying, hiring or retaining successors on terms acceptable to the Company or on any terms. Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians, with some limited exceptions, may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without an appropriate governmental work permit. Work permits may be granted or extended by the Bermuda government only upon showing that, after proper public advertisement in most cases, no Bermudian or spouse of a Bermudian, holder of a permanent resident’s certificate or holder of a working resident’s certificate is available who meets the minimum standard requirements for the advertised position. In 2001, the Bermuda government announced a new immigration policy limiting the duration of work permits to between six and nine years, with specified exemptions for “key” employees. In March 2004, the Bermuda government announced an amendment to the immigration policy which 31 expanded the categories of occupations recognized by the government as “key” and for which businesses are eligible to apply for holders of jobs in those categories to be exempt from the six to nine year term limits. The categories include senior executives (chief executive officers, presidents through vice presidents), managers with global responsibility, senior financial posts (treasurers, chief financial officers through controllers, specialized qualified accountants, quantitative modeling analysts), certain legal professionals (general counsels, specialist attorneys, qualified legal librarians and knowledge managers), senior insurance professionals (senior underwriters, senior claims adjustors), experienced/specialized brokers, actuaries, specialist investment traders/analysts and senior information technology engineers/managers. All executive officers who work in our Bermuda office that require work permits have obtained them. Our operating subsidiaries are rated by rating agencies and a decline in these ratings could affect our standing among brokers and customers and cause our premiums and earnings to decrease. Ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance and reinsurance companies. Our insurance subsidiaries have been rated “A” (Strong) by Standard & Poor’s, which is the sixth highest of twenty-one rating levels, and “A” (Excellent) by A.M. Best, which is the third highest of fifteen rating levels. AXIS Specialty Bermuda, AXIS Re Ireland and AXIS Re U.S. are rated “A2” (Good) by Moody’s Investors Service, which is the sixth highest of 21 ratings. Our ratings are subject to periodic review by, and may be revised downward or revoked at the sole discretion of, the rating agency. If our ratings are reduced from their current levels by any rating agency, our competitive position in the insurance and reinsurance industry would suffer, and it would be more difficult for us to market our products. A downgrade, therefore, could result in a substantial loss of business as insureds, ceding companies and brokers move to other insurers and reinsurers with higher ratings. In addition, we will be in default of our credit facility if any of our subsidiaries that are party to our credit facility fails to maintain a rating of at least B++ from A.M. Best. Since we depend on a few brokers for a large portion of our revenues, loss of business provided by any one of them could adversely affect us. We market our insurance and reinsurance worldwide primarily through insurance and reinsurance brokers. Marsh Inc, including its subsidiary Guy Carpenter & Company, Inc., Aon Corporation and Willis Group Holdings Ltd., provided a total of 52.1% of our gross premiums written during 2006. These brokers also have, or may in the future acquire, ownership interests in insurance and reinsurance companies that may compete with us. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided by one or more of these brokers could have a material adverse effect on our business. For further information on the concentration of our brokers refer to Item 8, Note 11 b) of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our reliance on brokers subjects us to their credit risk. In accordance with industry practice, we generally pay amounts owed on claims under our insurance and reinsurance contracts to brokers, and these brokers pay these amounts over to the clients that have purchased insurance or reinsurance from us. Although the law is unsettled and depends upon the facts and circumstances of the particular case, in some jurisdictions, if a broker fails to make such a payment, we might remain liable to the insured or ceding insurer for the deficiency. Conversely, in certain jurisdictions, when the insured or ceding insurer pays premiums for these policies to brokers for payment over to us, these premiums might be considered to have been paid and the insured or ceding insurer will no longer be liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we have actually received the premiums from the broker. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with brokers with whom we transact business. 32 If we choose to purchase reinsurance, we may be unable to do so, and if we successfully purchase reinsurance, we may be unable to collect. We purchase reinsurance for our insurance and reinsurance operations in order to mitigate the volatility of losses upon our financial results. A reinsurer’s insolvency, or inability or refusal to make payments under the terms of its reinsurance agreement with us, could have a material adverse effect on our business because we remain liable to the insured. From time to time, market conditions have limited, and in some cases have prevented, insurers and reinsurers from obtaining the types and amounts of reinsurance that they consider adequate for their business needs. For example, following the occurrence of recent hurricanes, terms and conditions in the reinsurance markets generally became less attractive to purchasers of reinsurance. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain our desired amounts of reinsurance. In addition, even if we are able to obtain such reinsurance, we may not be able to negotiate terms that we deem appropriate or acceptable or obtain such reinsurance from entities with satisfactory creditworthiness. Our investment performance may affect our financial results and ability to conduct business. Our funds are invested by several professional investment advisory management firms under the direction of our management in accordance with investment guidelines set by us. Our investments are subject to market-wide risks and fluctuations, as well as to risks inherent in particular securities. In particular, the volatility of our claims may force us to liquidate securities, which may cause us to incur capital losses. If we do not structure our investment portfolio so that it is appropriately matched with our insurance and reinsurance liabilities, we may be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a significant loss to cover the liabilities. Investment losses could significantly decrease our asset base, thereby affecting our ability to conduct business. During 2006, $381.4 million, or 12.4% of our total revenues, was derived from our invested assets. This represented 41.2% of our net income available to common shareholders. We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes. Our operating results are affected, in part, by the performance of our investment portfolio. Our investment portfolio contains interest rate sensitive-instruments, such as bonds, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Although we take measures to manage the risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to mitigate interest rate sensitivity effectively. Despite our mitigation efforts, a significant increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our shareholders’ equity and a significant decrease in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our investment income and results of operations. In addition, our fixed investment portfolio includes mortgage-backed securities. As of December 31, 2006, mortgage-backed securities constituted approximately 29.9% of our cash and invested assets. As with other fixed income investments, the fair market value of these securities fluctuates depending on market and other general economic conditions and the interest rate environment. Changes in interest rates can expose us to prepayment risks on these investments. In periods of declining interest rates, mortgage prepayments generally increase and mortgage-backed securities are prepaid more quickly, requiring us to reinvest the proceeds at the then current market rates. In periods of increasing interest rates, these investments are exposed to extension risk, which occurs when the holders of underlying mortgages reduce the frequency on which they prepay the outstanding principal before the maturity date and delay any refinancing of the outstanding principal. 33 We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or may only be available on unfavorable terms. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business successfully, the frequency and severity of catastrophic events and our ability to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses. We may need to raise additional funds through financings or curtail our growth and reduce our assets. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. Equity financings could be dilutive to our existing shareholders and could result in the issuance of securities that have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our other securities. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our operating results may be adversely affected by currency fluctuations. Our functional currency is the U.S. dollar. However, a portion of our gross premiums are written in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. A portion of our loss reserves and investments are also in non-U.S. currencies. We may, from time to time, experience losses resulting from fluctuations in the values of these non-U.S. currencies, which could adversely affect our operating results. From time to time, we may purchase instruments to hedge our currency exposure and alleviate our potential exposure to volatility in foreign exchange losses. We currently are not aware of any material exposures to loss payments that will be paid in non-U.S. currencies. We intend to consider the use of additional hedges when we are advised of known or probable significant losses that will be paid in non-U.S. currencies. However, it is possible that we will not successfully structure those hedges so as to effectively manage these risks. The regulatory system under which we operate, and potential changes thereto, could have a material adverse effect on our business. General. Our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations or accreditations in locales where we currently engage in business or in new locales, or may be able to do so only at significant cost. In addition, we may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, the wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance or reinsurance companies or holding companies. Failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate authorizations and/or exemptions under any applicable laws could result in restrictions on our ability to do business or undertake activities that are regulated in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate and could subject us to fines and other sanctions. In addition, changes in the laws or regulations to which our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject could have a material adverse effect on our business. AXIS Specialty Bermuda. AXIS Specialty Bermuda is a registered Class 4 Bermuda insurance and reinsurance company. Bermuda statutes and regulations and policies of the BMA require AXIS Specialty Bermuda to maintain minimum levels of statutory capital, surplus and liquidity, meet solvency standards, submit to periodic examinations of its financial condition and restrict payments of dividends and reductions of capital. These statutes, regulations and policies may, in effect, restrict AXIS Specialty Bermuda’s ability to write insurance and reinsurance policies, to make some investments and to distribute funds to AXIS Capital. In addition, the offshore insurance and reinsurance regulatory environment has become subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions, including the United States and various states within the United States. Compliance with any new laws or regulations regulating offshore insurers or reinsurers could have a material adverse effect on our business. AXIS U.S. Subsidiaries. AXIS Re U.S. is organized in New York and is licensed to write certain lines of insurance and reinsurance in New York and elsewhere throughout the United States. AXIS Insurance 34 U.S. is organized in Illinois and is licensed to write certain lines of insurance and reinsurance in Illinois and elsewhere throughout the United States, except for California and New Hampshire. AXIS Specialty U.S. is organized and licensed to write certain lines of insurance in Connecticut and AXIS Surplus U.S. is organized and licensed to write certain lines of insurance in Illinois, and both are eligible to write certain lines of insurance in other U.S. jurisdictions on an excess or surplus lines basis (AXIS Re U.S., AXIS Specialty U.S., AXIS Surplus U.S. and AXIS Insurance U.S. are collectively referred to as the “AXIS U.S. Subsidiaries”). The AXIS U.S. Subsidiaries are subject to the laws and regulations of their respective states of domicile and other jurisdictions in which they are licensed or otherwise eligible to engage in business. These laws and regulations subject some affiliate transactions between such entities and other members of our holding company system to regulatory authority and require them to maintain minimum levels of capital, surplus and liquidity and comply with applicable risk-based capital requirements. In addition, they impose restrictions on the payment of dividends and distributions and in some cases require them to file insurance premium rates and policy forms. These rules and regulations may have the effect of restricting the ability of the AXIS U.S. Subsidiaries to write new business or distribute assets to AXIS Capital. The purpose of the state insurance laws and regulations is to protect U.S. insureds and U.S. ceding insurance companies, not shareholders. In recent years, the U.S. insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny, and some state legislators have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state regulation of insurance and reinsurance companies and holding companies. Moreover, the NAIC which is an association of the insurance commissioners of all 50 states and the District of Columbia, and state insurance regulators regularly reexamine existing laws and regulations. Changes in these laws and regulations or the interpretation of these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. AXIS Specialty Ireland. AXIS Specialty Ireland is a non-life insurance company incorporated under the laws of Ireland and as such is subject to the regulation and supervision of the Irish Financial Regulator and Regulations. Without the consent of the Irish Financial Regulator, AXIS Specialty Ireland is not permitted to reduce the level of its capital, may not make any dividend payments, may not make intercompany loans and must maintain a minimum solvency margin. Additionally, AXIS Specialty Ireland has agreed with the Irish Financial Regulator to limit the level of reinsurance business that it writes. These rules and regulations may have the effect of restricting the ability of AXIS Specialty Ireland to write new business or distribute assets to AXIS Capital. AXIS Re Ireland. AXIS Re Ireland is a reinsurance company incorporated under the laws of Ireland. The European Communities (Reinsurance) Regulations 2006 (the “Regulations”) came into effect on July 15, 2006 and Ireland thereby became the first EU member state to implement the European Reinsurance Directive. The Regulations introduce a comprehensive framework for the authorization and supervision of reinsurers in Ireland for the first time. The Regulations provide that all Irish reinsurers established before December 10, 2005 (including AXIS Re Ireland) are deemed to be authorized under the Regulations, subject to complying with certain requirements not later than December 10, 2007. These requirements include an obligation to maintain assets covering technical reserves and a solvency margin of assets free from any foreseeable liabilities calculated in accordance with the Regulations. If AXIS Re Ireland is unable to comply with any of the requirements of this new regulatory regime, it would not be lawful for it to continue to carry on the business of reinsurance in Ireland and this could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our inability to obtain the necessary credit could affect our ability to offer reinsurance in certain markets. Neither AXIS Specialty Bermuda nor AXIS Re Ireland is licensed or admitted as an insurer or reinsurer in any jurisdiction other than Bermuda and Ireland, respectively. Because the U.S. and some other jurisdictions do not permit insurance companies to take credit for reinsurance obtained from unlicensed or non-admitted insurers on their statutory financial statements unless appropriate security 35 mechanisms are in place, our reinsurance clients typically require AXIS Specialty Bermuda and AXIS Re Ireland to provide letters of credit or other collateral. Our credit facility is used to post letters of credit. However, if our credit facility is not sufficient or if we are unable to renew the credit facility or are unable to arrange for other types of security on commercially reasonable terms, AXIS Specialty Bermuda and AXIS Re Ireland could be limited in its ability to write business for some of our clients. Our ability to pay dividends and to make payments on indebtedness may be constrained by our holding company structure and regulatory constraints. AXIS Capital is a holding company and has no direct operations of its own. AXIS Capital has no significant operations or assets other than its ownership of the shares of its operating insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries, AXIS Specialty Bermuda, AXIS Re Ireland, AXIS Specialty Ireland, AXIS Re U.S., AXIS Specialty U.S., AXIS Surplus U.S. and AXIS Insurance U.S. (collectively, our “Insurance Subsidiaries”). Dividends and other permitted distributions from our Insurance Subsidiaries are our primary source of funds to meet ongoing cash requirements, including debt service payments and other expenses, and to pay dividends to our shareholders. Our Insurance Subsidiaries are subject to significant regulatory restrictions limiting their ability to declare and pay dividends and make distributions. The inability of our Insurance Subsidiaries to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our cash requirements at the holding company level could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to pay dividends and make payments on our indebtedness. AXIS Capital is subject to Bermuda regulatory constraints that affect its ability to declare and pay dividends on its common shares and make other payments. Under the Companies Act, AXIS Capital may declare or pay a dividend or make a distribution out of contributed surplus only if it has no reasonable grounds for believing that it is, or would after the payment be, unable to pay its liabilities as they become due or that the realizable value of its assets would thereby be less than the aggregate of its liabilities and issued share capital and share premium accounts. Our participation in a securities lending program subjects us to risk of default by the borrowers. We participate in a securities lending program whereby our securities are loaned to third parties through a lending agent. The loaned securities are collateralized by cash, government securities and letters of credit in excess of the fair market value of the securities held by the lending agent. However, sharp changes in market values of substantial amounts of securities and the failure of the borrowers to honor their commitments, or default by the lending agent in remitting the collateral to us, could have a material adverse effect on our fixed maturity investments or our results of operations. AXIS Capital is a Bermuda company and it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments against it or its directors and executive officers. AXIS Capital is incorporated pursuant to the laws of Bermuda and our business is based in Bermuda. In addition, some of our directors and officers reside outside the United States, and all or a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of such persons are located in jurisdictions outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible to effect service of process within the United States upon those persons or to recover against us or them on judgments of U.S. courts, including judgments predicated upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Further, it may not be possible to bring a claim in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers for violation of U.S. federal securities laws because these laws may have no extraterritorial application under Bermuda law and do not have force of law in Bermuda. A Bermuda court may, however, impose civil liability, including the possibility of monetary damages, on us or our directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda law. 36 We have been advised by Conyers Dill & Pearman, our Bermuda counsel, that there is doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our directors and officers, as well as any experts named herein, or in any registration statement we file predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or whether proceedings could be commenced in the courts of Bermuda against us or such persons predicated solely upon U.S. federal securities laws. Further, we have been advised by Conyers Dill & Pearman that there is no treaty in effect between the United States and Bermuda providing for the enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, and there may be grounds upon which Bermuda courts will not enforce judgments of U.S. courts. Some remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including some remedies available under the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be allowed in Bermuda courts as contrary to that jurisdiction’s public policy. There are provisions in our charter documents that may reduce or increase the voting rights of our shares. Our bye-laws generally provide that shareholders have one vote for each common share held by them and are entitled to vote, on a non-cumulative basis, at all meetings of shareholders. However, the voting rights exercisable by a shareholder may be limited so that certain persons or groups are not deemed to hold 9.5% or more of the voting power conferred by our shares. Under these provisions, some shareholders may have the right to exercise their voting rights limited to less than one vote per share. Moreover, these provisions could have the effect of reducing the voting power of some shareholders who would not otherwise be subject to the limitation by virtue of their direct share ownership. In addition, our board of directors may limit a shareholder’s exercise of voting rights where it deems it necessary to do so to avoid adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequences. We also have the authority under our bye-laws to request information from any shareholder for the purpose of determining whether a shareholder’s voting rights are to be limited pursuant to the bye-laws. If a shareholder fails to respond to our request for information or submits incomplete or inaccurate information in response to a request by us, we may, in our sole discretion, eliminate the shareholder’s voting rights. There are provisions in our bye-laws that may restrict the ability to transfer common shares and which may require shareholders to sell their common shares. Our board of directors may decline to register a transfer of any common shares under some circumstances, including if they have reason to believe that any non-de minimis adverse tax, regulatory or legal consequences to us, any of our subsidiaries or any of our shareholders may occur as a result of such transfer. Our bye-laws also provide that if our board of directors determines that share ownership by a person may result in non-de minimis adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequences to us, any of our subsidiaries or any of our shareholders, then we have the option, but not the obligation, to require that shareholder to sell to us or to third parties to whom we assign the repurchase right for fair market value the minimum number of common shares held by such person which is necessary to eliminate the non-de minimis adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequences. Applicable insurance laws may make it difficult to effect a change of control of our company. Before a person can acquire control of a U.S. insurance company, prior written approval must be obtained from the insurance commissioner of the state where the domestic insurer is domiciled. Prior to granting approval of an application to acquire control of a domestic insurer, the state insurance commissioner will consider such factors as the financial strength of the applicant, the integrity and management of the applicant’s board of directors and executive officers, the acquiror’s plans for the management of the applicant’s board of directors and executive officers, the acquiror’s plans for the future operations of the domestic insurer and any anti-competitive results that may arise from the consummation 37 of the acquisition of control. Generally, state statutes provide that control over a domestic insurer is presumed to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, owns, controls, holds with the power to vote, or holds proxies representing, 10% or more of the voting securities of the domestic insurer. Because a person acquiring 10% or more of our common shares would indirectly control the same percentage of the stock of the AXIS U.S. Subsidiaries, the insurance change of control laws of Connecticut, Illinois and New York would likely apply to such a transaction. In addition, the Insurance Acts and Regulations in Ireland require that anyone acquiring or disposing of a direct or indirect holding in an Irish authorized insurance company (such as AXIS Specialty Europe) that represents 10% or more of the capital or of the voting rights of such company or that makes it possible to exercise a significant influence over the management of such company, or anyone who proposes to decrease or increase that holding to specified levels, must first notify the Irish Regulatory Authority of their intention to do so. They also require any Irish authorized insurance company that becomes aware of any acquisitions or disposals of its capital involving the specified levels to notify the Irish Regulatory Authority. The specified levels are 20%, 33% and 50% or such other level of ownership that results in the company becoming the acquiror’s subsidiary within the meaning of article 20 of the European Communities (non-Life Insurance) Framework Regulations 1994. The Irish Regulatory Authority has three months from the date of submission of a notification within which to oppose the proposed transaction if the Irish Regulatory Authority is not satisfied as to the suitability of the acquiror in view of the necessity “to ensure prudent and sound management of the insurance undertaking concerned.” Any person owning 10% or more of the capital or voting rights or an amount that makes it possible to exercise a significant influence over the management of AXIS Capital would be considered to have a “qualifying holding” in AXIS Specialty Europe. While our bye-laws limit the voting power of any shareholder to less than 9.5%, there can be no assurance that the applicable regulatory body would agree that a shareholder who owned 10% or more of our shares did not, because of the limitation on the voting power of such shares, control the applicable Insurance Subsidiary. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of the Company, including transactions that some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable. U.S. persons who own our shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests than U.S. persons who are shareholders of a U.S. corporation. The Companies Act, which applies to us, differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. These differences include the manner in which directors must disclose transactions in which they have an interest, the rights of shareholders to bring class action and derivative lawsuits and the scope of indemnification available to directors and officers. Anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws could impede an attempt to replace our directors or to effect a change in control, which could diminish the value of our common shares. Our bye-laws contain provisions that may make it more difficult for shareholders to replace directors and could delay or prevent a change of control that a shareholder might consider favorable. These provisions include a staggered board of directors, limitations on the ability of shareholders to remove directors other than for cause, limitations on voting rights and restrictions on transfer of our common shares. These provisions may prevent a shareholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of our shares offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. Even in the absence of an attempt to effect a change in management or a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our shares if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. 38 Risks Related to Our Industry We operate in a highly competitive environment. The insurance and reinsurance industry is highly competitive. We compete on an international and regional basis with major U.S., Bermuda, European and other international insurers and reinsurers and with Lloyds’ underwriting syndicates, some of which have greater financial, marketing and management resources than we do. We also compete with new companies that continue to be formed to enter the insurance and reinsurance markets. In addition, capital market participants have recently created alternative products that are intended to compete with reinsurance products. Increased competition could result in fewer submissions, lower premium rates and less favorable policy terms and conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our growth and profitability. The insurance and reinsurance business is historically cyclical, and we expect to experience periods with excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable premium rates. The insurance and reinsurance business historically has been a cyclical industry characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted favorable premium levels. An increase in premium levels is often offset by an increasing supply of insurance and reinsurance capacity, either by capital provided by new entrants or by the commitment of additional capital by existing insurers or reinsurers, which may cause prices to decrease. Any of these factors could lead to a significant reduction in premium rates, less favorable policy terms and fewer submissions for our underwriting services. In addition to these considerations, changes in the frequency and severity of losses suffered by insureds and insurers may affect the cycles of the insurance and reinsurance business significantly. The impact of the investigations into anti-competitive practices in the insurance industry and related lawsuits cannot be predicted and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. During 2005, our U.S. holding company received subpoenas from the Office of the Attorney General of the State of New York seeking information regarding incentive commission agreements, fictitious and inflated quotes and related matters and conditioning direct insurance on the placement of reinsurance. In addition, our U.S. insurance companies have received subpoenas and requests for information from various state insurance regulators regarding these same matters. These inquiries were part of industry-wide investigations in these jurisdictions and we understand that officials from other jurisdictions in which we do business have also initiated investigations into similar matters. Accordingly, we may in the future receive additional subpoenas and requests for information. We have cooperated fully with the Attorney General of the State of New York and the other state regulators in their investigations and intend to cooperate fully with any future investigations. Responding to subpoenas and requests for information and cooperating with investigations is very costly and diverts management’s time and efforts away from our operations. In addition, we could be subject to civil and criminal actions, sanctions and penalties as a result of these investigations. Furthermore, AXIS Surplus U.S., AXIS Re U.S. and AXIS Insurance U.S. are defendants in a putative class action lawsuit captioned In re Insurance Brokerage Antitrust Litigation. The lawsuit is pending in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey and includes as defendants numerous insurance brokers and insurance companies. The lawsuit alleges antitrust and Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (“RICO”) violations in connection with the payment of contingent commissions and manipulation of insurance bids and seeks damages in an unspecified amount. We believe that these lawsuits are completely without merit and we are vigorously defending the filed action. 39 However, additional similar lawsuits may be filed against us and if the plaintiffs were to prevail in any of these lawsuits we could be subject to substantial damages. We are party to various legal proceedings generally arising in the ordinary course of our insurance and reinsurance businesses. We do not believe that the eventual outcome of any litigation or arbitration proceeding to which we are presently a party will have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition; however, every proceeding contains an element of uncertainty and if the plaintiffs were to prevail in some of these proceedings we could be subject to substantial damages. Risks Related to Taxation We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after March 28, 2016, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966 of Bermuda, as amended, has given each of AXIS Capital and AXIS Specialty Bermuda an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to AXIS Capital, AXIS Specialty Bermuda or any of their respective operations, shares, debentures or other obligations until March 28, 2016. Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance’s assurance, we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 28, 2016. Our non-U.S. companies may be subject to U.S. tax that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. AXIS Capital and AXIS Specialty Bermuda are Bermuda companies, AXIS Ireland Holdings, AXIS Re Ireland and AXIS Specialty Ireland are Irish companies and AXIS Specialty U.K. Holdings Limited (“AXIS U.K. Holdings”) is a U.K. company. We intend to manage our business so that each of these companies will operate in such a manner that none of these companies should be subject to U.S. tax (other than U.S. excise tax on insurance and reinsurance premium income attributable to insuring or reinsuring U.S. risks and U.S. withholding tax on some types of U.S. source investment income), because none of these companies should be treated as engaged in a trade or business within the United States. However, because there is considerable uncertainty as to the activities that constitute being engaged in a trade or business within the United States, we cannot be certain that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) will not contend successfully that any of AXIS Capital or its non-U.S. subsidiaries is/are engaged in a trade or business in the United States. If AXIS Capital or any of its non-U.S. subsidiaries were considered to be engaged in a trade or business in the United States, it could be subject to U.S. corporate income and additional branch profits taxes on the portion of its earnings effectively connected to such U.S. business. If this were to be the case, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our non-U.K. companies may be subject to U.K. tax that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We intend to operate in such a manner so that none of our companies, other than AXIS U.K. Holdings, should be resident in the United Kingdom for tax purposes and that none of our companies, other than AXIS Ireland Holdings and AXIS Specialty Ireland, should have a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom. Accordingly, we expect that none of our companies other than, AXIS U.K. Holdings, AXIS Ireland Holdings and AXIS Specialty Ireland should be subject to U.K. tax. Nevertheless, because neither case law nor U.K. statutes conclusively define the activities that constitute trading in the United Kingdom through a permanent establishment, the U.K. Inland Revenue might contend successfully that any of our companies, in addition to AXIS U.K. Holdings, AXIS Ireland Holdings and AXIS Specialty 40 Ireland, is/are trading in the United Kingdom through a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom and therefore subject to U.K. tax. If this were the case, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our non-Irish companies may be subject to Irish tax that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We intend to operate in such a manner so that none of our companies, other than AXIS Ireland Holdings, AXIS Re Ireland and AXIS Specialty Ireland, should be resident in Ireland for tax purposes and that none of our companies, other than AXIS Ireland Holdings, AXIS Re Ireland and AXIS Specialty Ireland, should be treated as carrying on a trade through a branch or agency in Ireland. Accordingly, we expect that none of our companies other than AXIS Ireland Holdings, AXIS Re Ireland and AXIS Specialty Ireland should be subject to Irish corporation tax. Nevertheless, since the determination as to whether a company is resident in Ireland is a question of fact to be determined based on a number of different factors and since neither case law nor Irish legislation conclusively defines the activities that constitute trading in Ireland through a branch or agency, the Irish Revenue Commissioners might contend successfully that any of our companies, in addition to AXIS Ireland Holdings, AXIS Re Ireland and AXIS Specialty Ireland, is resident in or otherwise trading through a branch or agency in Ireland and therefore subject to Irish corporation tax. If this were the case, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If corporate tax rates in Ireland increase, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Trading income derived from the insurance and reinsurance businesses carried on in Ireland by AXIS Specialty Ireland and AXIS Re Ireland is generally taxed in Ireland at a rate of 12.5%. Over the past number of years, various EU member states have, from time to time, called for harmonization of corporate tax rates within the EU. Ireland, along with other member states, has consistently resisted any movement towards standardized corporate tax rates in the EU. The Government of Ireland has also made clear its commitment to retain the 12.5% rate of corporation tax until at least the year 2025. If, however, tax laws in Ireland change so as to increase the general corporation tax rate in Ireland, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If investments held by AXIS Specialty Ireland or AXIS Re Ireland are determined not to be integral to the insurance and reinsurance businesses carried on by those companies, additional Irish tax could be imposed and our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Based on administrative practice, taxable income derived from investments made by AXIS Specialty Ireland and AXIS Re Ireland is generally taxed in Ireland at the rate of 12.5% on the grounds that such investments either form part of the permanent capital required by regulatory authorities, or are otherwise integral to the insurance and reinsurance businesses carried on by those companies. AXIS Specialty Ireland and AXIS Re Ireland intend to operate in such a manner so that the level of investments held by such companies does not exceed the amount that is integral to the insurance and reinsurance businesses carried on by AXIS Specialty Ireland and AXIS Re Ireland. If, however, investment income earned by AXIS Specialty Ireland or AXIS Re Ireland exceeds these thresholds, or if the administrative practice of the Irish Revenue Commissioners changes, Irish corporation tax could apply to such investment income at a higher rate (currently 25%) instead of the general 12.5% rate, and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 41 The impact of Bermuda’s letter of commitment to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to eliminate harmful tax practices is uncertain and could adversely affect our tax status in Bermuda. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (the “OECD”) has published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. In the OECD’s report dated April 18, 2002 and updated as of June 2004 and September 2006, Bermuda was not listed as an uncooperative tax haven jurisdiction because it had previously committed to eliminate harmful tax practices and to embrace international tax standards for transparency, exchange of information and the elimination of any aspects of the regimes for financial and other services that attract business with no substantial domestic activity. We are not able to predict what changes will arise from the commitment or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes. Changes in US federal income tax law could materially adversely affect us. Legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Congress intended to eliminate some perceived tax advantages of companies (including insurance companies) that have legal domiciles outside the United States but have certain U.S. connections. While the Company believes there are no currently pending legislative proposals which, if enacted, would have a material adverse effect on us, it is possible that similar legislation could be introduced and enacted by the current Congress or future Congresses that could have an adverse impact on us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 