ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Company Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by losses related to Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. We have substantial exposure to losses resulting from natural disasters, including hurricanes. During the third and fourth quarters of 2005, Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma caused significant destruction in the Gulf Coast region of the United States. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our estimate of net losses and loss expenses from these hurricanes was $1,091.1 million. This estimate was derived from our insurance and reinsurance segments and was derived from a combination of the output of industry models, market share analyses, a review of in-force contracts and preliminary loss information from our clients, brokers and loss adjustors. If our actual losses from these hurricanes are materially greater than our estimated losses, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Credit agency ratings of our insurance companies and our securities have become an increasingly important factor in maintaining the competitive position of our insurance and reinsurance companies and are also important in establishing the market value of our securities. Our ratings are subject to periodic review by, and may be revised downward or revoked at the sole discretion of, the rating agencies. If our losses from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita or Wilma exceed our estimates, or if additional large loss events occur, our ratings could be revised downward or revoked, which could result in a substantial loss of business and a reduction in the market value of our securities. See “—Our operating subsidiaries are rated by rating agencies and a decline in these ratings could affect our standing among brokers and customers and cause our premiums and earnings to decrease.” We purchase reinsurance for our insurance and reinsurance operations in order to mitigate the volatility of losses upon our financial results. The occurrence of additional large loss events could reduce the reinsurance coverage that is available to us and could weaken the financial condition of our reinsurers, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. See “—If we choose to purchase reinsurance, we may be unable to do so, and if we successfully purchase reinsurance, we may be unable to collect.” Our future performance is difficult to predict because we have a limited operating history. We began our business in November 2001 and have a limited operating and financial history. As a result, there is limited historical financial and operating information available to help you evaluate our performance. Because we are in the early stages of development, we face substantial business and financial risks and may suffer significant losses. We must continue to develop and maintain business relationships, operating procedures, management information and other systems and complete other tasks necessary to conduct our intended business activities. It is possible that we will not be successful in implementing our business strategy or accomplishing these necessary tasks. 30 Our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by the occurrence of natural and man-made disasters. We have substantial exposure to unexpected losses resulting from natural disasters, man-made catastrophes and other catastrophic events. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including hurricanes, earthquakes, hailstorms, explosions, severe winter weather, fires, war, acts of terrorism, political instability and other natural or man-made disasters. In addition, we have written and intend to continue to write policies explicitly covering war, acts of terrorism and political risk. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable and our losses from catastrophes could be substantial. The occurrence of claims from catastrophic events is likely to result in substantial volatility in our results of operations or financial condition for any fiscal quarter or year. This volatility is compounded by accounting regulations that do not permit reinsurers to reserve for catastrophic events until they occur. Although we attempt to manage our exposure to such events, a single catastrophic event could affect multiple geographic zones or the frequency or severity of catastrophic events could exceed our estimates. In addition, increases in the values and concentrations of insured property and demand surge caused by the frequency of events may generate more volatility in the level of losses from catastrophic events. As a result, the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition and our ability to write new business. If actual claims exceed our loss reserves, our financial results could be adversely affected. Our results of operations and financial condition depend upon our ability to accurately assess the potential losses associated with the risks that we insure and reinsure. We establish loss reserves to cover our estimated liability for the payment of all losses and loss expenses incurred with respect to premiums earned on the policies that we write. Our operating history is limited and our loss history is insufficient to allow us currently to extrapolate reserves directly for most of our lines of business. Instead, our current loss reserves are primarily based on estimates involving actuarial and statistical projections of our expectations of the ultimate settlement and administration costs of claims incurred. We utilize actuarial models and historical insurance industry loss development patterns to establish appropriate loss reserves, as well as estimates of future trends in claims severity, frequency and other factors. Establishing an appropriate level of loss reserves is an inherently uncertain process. Accordingly, actual losses and loss expenses paid will deviate, perhaps substantially, from the reserve estimates reflected in our consolidated financial statements. If our loss reserves are determined to be inadequate, we will be required to increase loss reserves at the time of such determination and our net income will be reduced. If our net income is insufficient to absorb a required increase in our loss reserves, we would incur an operating loss and could incur a reduction of our capital. The failure of any of the loss limitation methods we employ could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We seek to mitigate our loss exposure by writing a number of our insurance and reinsurance contracts on an excess of loss basis. Excess of loss insurance and reinsurance indemnifies the insured against losses in excess of a specified amount. In addition, we limit the program size for each client on our insurance business and purchase reinsurance for many of our lines of business. In the case of proportional reinsurance treaties, we seek per occurrence limitations or loss and loss expense ratio caps to limit the impact of losses from any one event. In proportional reinsurance, the reinsurer shares a proportional part of the premiums and losses of the reinsured. We cannot be sure that any of 31 these loss limitation methods will be effective and mitigate our loss exposure. We also seek to limit our loss exposure by geographic diversification. Geographic zone limitations involve significant underwriting judgments, including the determination of the area of the zones and the inclusion of a particular policy within a particular zone’s limits. Various provisions of our policies, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum negotiated to limit our risks may not be enforceable in the manner we intend. As a result of these risks, one or more catastrophic or other events could result in claims that substantially exceed our expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance or reinsurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. One recent example of an emerging claims and coverage issue is whether some of the substantial losses from recent hurricanes are the result of storm surge, which is sometimes covered by insurance, or flood, which is generally not covered. Another example of an emerging coverage and claims issue is larger settlements and jury awards against professionals and corporate directors and officers covered by professional liability and directors’ and officers’ liability insurance. The risk associated with reinsurance underwriting could adversely affect us. In our reinsurance business, we do not separately evaluate each of the individual risks assumed under reinsurance treaties. This is common among reinsurers. Therefore, we are largely dependent on the original underwriting decisions made by insurers that reinsure their liabilities, or ceding companies. We are subject to the risk that the ceding companies may not have adequately evaluated the risks to be reinsured and that the premiums ceded may not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume. We could be adversely affected by the loss of one or more key executives or by an inability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our success depends on our ability to retain the services of our existing key executives and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in the future. The loss of the services of any of our key executives or the inability to hire and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. We do not maintain key man life insurance policies with respect to our employees, except for our Chief Executive Officer and President, John R. Charman. On February 6, 2006, John R. Charman, our Chief Executive Officer and President informed us that he will retire on December 31, 2008. Andrew Cook, our Chief Financial Officer, notified us that he is leaving the Company effective April 1, 2006. Also, Carol S. Rivers, our General Counsel and Secretary, notified us that she is leaving the Company effective March 1, 2006. The Company has commenced a search for qualified individuals to succeed Mr. Cook and Ms. Rivers. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company will be successful in identifying, hiring or retaining successors on terms acceptable to the Company or on any terms. 32 Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians, with some limited exceptions, may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without an appropriate governmental work permit. Work permits may be granted or extended by the Bermuda government only upon showing that, after proper public advertisement in most cases, no Bermudian or spouse of a Bermudian, holder of a permanent resident’s certificate or holder of a working resident’s certificate is available who meets the minimum standard requirements for the advertised position. In 2001, the Bermuda government announced a new immigration policy limiting the duration of work permits to between six and nine years, with specified exemptions for “key” employees. If work permits are not obtained or renewed for our key executives in Bermuda, we could lose their services, which could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Our operating subsidiaries are rated by rating agencies and a decline in these ratings could affect our standing among brokers and customers and cause our premiums and earnings to decrease. Ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance and reinsurance companies. Our insurance subsidiaries have been rated “A” (Strong) by Standard & Poor’s, which is the sixth highest of twenty-one rating levels, and “A” (Excellent) by A.M. Best, which is the third highest of fifteen rating levels. AXIS Specialty Bermuda, AXIS Re Ireland and AXIS Re U.S. are rated “A2” (Good) by Moody’s Investors Service, which is the sixth highest of 21 ratings. Our ratings are subject to periodic review by, and may be revised downward or revoked at the sole discretion of, the rating agency. If our ratings are reduced from their current levels by any rating agency, our competitive position in the insurance and reinsurance industry would suffer, and it would be more difficult for us to market our products. A downgrade, therefore, could result in a substantial loss of business as insureds, ceding companies and brokers move to other insurers and reinsurers with higher ratings. In addition, we will be in default of our credit facility if any of our subsidiaries that are party to our credit facility fails to maintain a rating of at least B++ from A.M. Best. Since we depend on a few brokers for a large portion of our revenues, loss of business provided by any one of them could adversely affect us. We market our insurance and reinsurance worldwide primarily through insurance and reinsurance brokers. Marsh, Inc. including its subsidiary Guy Carpenter & Company, Inc., Aon Corporation, Willis Group Holdings Ltd., and Benfield Group and provided 28.0%, 15.7%, 8.4%, and 6.0% (for a total of 58.1%), respectively, of our gross premiums written in the year ended December 31, 2005. These brokers also have, or may in the future acquire, ownership interests in insurance and reinsurance companies that may compete with us. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided by one or more of these brokers could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our reliance on brokers subjects us to their credit risk. In accordance with industry practice, we generally pay amounts owed on claims under our insurance and reinsurance contracts to brokers, and these brokers pay these amounts over to the clients that have purchased insurance or reinsurance from us. Although the law is unsettled and depends upon the facts and circumstances of the particular case, in some jurisdictions, if a broker fails to make such a payment, we might remain liable to the insured or ceding insurer for the deficiency. Conversely, in certain jurisdictions, when the insured or ceding insurer pays premiums for these policies to brokers for payment over to us, these premiums might be considered to have been 33 paid and the insured or ceding insurer will no longer be liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we have actually received the premiums from the broker. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with brokers with whom we transact business. If we choose to purchase reinsurance, we may be unable to do so, and if we successfully purchase reinsurance, we may be unable to collect. We purchase reinsurance for our insurance and reinsurance operations in order to mitigate the volatility of losses upon our financial results. A reinsurer’s insolvency, or inability or refusal to make payments under the terms of its reinsurance agreement with us, could have a material adverse effect on our business because we remain liable to the insured. From time to time, market conditions have limited, and in some cases have prevented, insurers and reinsurers from obtaining the types and amounts of reinsurance that they consider adequate for their business needs. For example, following the occurrence of recent hurricanes, terms and conditions in the reinsurance markets generally became less attractive to purchasers of reinsurance. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain our desired amounts of reinsurance. In addition, even if we are able to obtain such reinsurance, we may not be able to negotiate terms that we deem appropriate or acceptable or obtain such reinsurance from entities with satisfactory creditworthiness. Our investment performance may affect our financial results and ability to conduct business. Our funds are invested by several professional investment advisory management firms under the direction of our management in accordance with investment guidelines set by us. Our investments are subject to market-wide risks and fluctuations, as well as to risks inherent in particular securities. In particular, the volatility of our claims may force us to liquidate securities, which may cause us to incur capital losses. If we do not structure our investment portfolio so that it is appropriately matched with our insurance and reinsurance liabilities, we may be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a significant loss to cover the liabilities. Investment losses could significantly decrease our asset base, thereby affecting our ability to conduct business. For the year ended December 31, 2005, $239.8 million, or 8.5% of our total revenues, was derived from our invested assets. This represented 266.3% of our net income available to common shares. We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes. Our operating results are affected, in part, by the performance of our investment portfolio. Our investment portfolio contains interest rate sensitive-instruments, such as bonds, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Although we take measures to manage the risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to mitigate interest rate sensitivity effectively. Despite our mitigation efforts, a significant increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our shareholders’ equity and a significant decrease in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our investment income and results of operations. In addition, our investment portfolio includes mortgage-backed securities. As of December 31, 2005, mortgage-backed securities constituted approximately 39.2% of our invested assets (assets under management by third party investment managers). As with other fixed income investments, the fair market value of these securities fluctuates depending on market and other general economic conditions and the interest rate environment. Changes in interest rates can expose us to prepayment 34 risks on these investments. In periods of declining interest rates, mortgage prepayments generally increase and mortgage-backed securities are prepaid more quickly, requiring us to reinvest the proceeds at the then current market rates. In periods of increasing interest rates, these investments are exposed to extension risk, which occurs when the holders of underlying mortgages reduce the frequency on which they prepay the outstanding principal before the maturity date and delay any refinancing of the outstanding principal. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or may only be available on unfavorable terms. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business successfully, the frequency and severity of catastrophic events and our ability to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses. We may need to raise additional funds through financings or curtail our growth and reduce our assets. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. Equity financings could be dilutive to our existing shareholders and could result in the issuance of securities that have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our other securities. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our operating results may be adversely affected by currency fluctuations. Our functional currency is the U.S. dollar. However, a significant portion of our gross premiums are written in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. A portion of our loss reserves and investments are also in non-U.S. currencies. We may, from time to time, experience losses resulting from fluctuations in the values of these non-U.S. currencies, which could adversely affect our operating results. We have some currency hedges in place to alleviate our potential exposure to volatility in foreign exchange losses. We currently are not aware of any material exposures to loss payments that will be paid in non-U.S. currencies. We intend to consider the use of additional hedges when we are advised of known or probable significant losses that will be paid in non-U.S. currencies. However, it is possible that we will not successfully structure those hedges so as to effectively manage these risks. The regulatory system under which we operate, and potential changes thereto, could have a material adverse effect on our business. General. Our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations or accreditations in locales where we currently engage in business or in new locales, or may be able to do so only at significant cost. In addition, we may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, the wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance or reinsurance companies or holding companies. Failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate authorizations and/or exemptions under any applicable laws could result in restrictions on our ability to do business or undertake activities that are regulated in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate and could subject us to fines and other sanctions. In addition, changes in the laws or regulations to which our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject could have a material adverse effect on our business. AXIS Specialty Bermuda. AXIS Specialty Bermuda is a registered Class 4 Bermuda insurance and reinsurance company. Bermuda statutes and regulations and policies of the BMA require AXIS 35 Specialty Bermuda to maintain minimum levels of statutory capital, surplus and liquidity, meet solvency standards, submit to periodic examinations of its financial condition and restrict payments of dividends and reductions of capital. These statutes, regulations and policies may, in effect, restrict AXIS Specialty Bermuda’s ability to write insurance and reinsurance policies, to make some investments and to distribute funds to AXIS Capital. In addition, the offshore insurance and reinsurance regulatory environment has become subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions, including the United States and various states within the United States. Compliance with any new laws or regulations regulating offshore insurers or reinsurers could have a material adverse effect on our business. AXIS U.S. Subsidiaries. AXIS Re U.S. is organized in New York and is licensed to write certain lines of insurance and reinsurance in New York and elsewhere throughout the United States. AXIS Specialty U.S. is organized and licensed to write certain lines of insurance in Connecticut and AXIS Surplus U.S. and AXIS Insurance U.S. are organized and licensed to write certain lines of insurance in Illinois, and all are eligible to write certain lines of insurance in some other U.S. jurisdictions on an excess or surplus lines basis (AXIS Re U.S., AXIS Specialty U.S., AXIS Surplus U.S. and AXIS Insurance U.S. are collectively referred to as the “AXIS U.S. Subsidiaries”). The AXIS U.S. Subsidiaries are subject to the laws and regulations of their respective states of domicile and other jurisdictions in which they are licensed or otherwise eligible to engage in business. These laws and regulations subject some affiliate transactions between such entities and other members of our holding company system to regulatory authority and require them to maintain minimum levels of capital, surplus and liquidity and comply with applicable risk-based capital requirements. In addition, they impose restrictions on the payment of dividends and distributions and in some cases require them to file insurance premium rates and policy forms. These rules and regulations may have the effect of restricting the ability of the AXIS U.S. Subsidiaries to write new business or distribute assets to AXIS Capital. The purpose of the state insurance laws and regulations is to protect U.S. insureds and U.S. ceding insurance companies, not shareholders. In recent years, the U.S. insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny, and some state legislators have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state regulation of insurance and reinsurance companies and holding companies. Moreover, the NAIC which is an association of the insurance commissioners of all 50 states and the District of Columbia, and state insurance regulators regularly reexamine existing laws and regulations. Changes in these laws and regulations or the interpretation of these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. AXIS Specialty Ireland. AXIS Specialty Ireland is a non-life insurance company incorporated under the laws of Ireland and as such is subject to the regulation and supervision of the Irish Financial Regulator and Regulations. Without the consent of the Irish Financial Regulator, AXIS Specialty Ireland is not permitted to reduce the level of its capital, may not make any dividend payments, may not make intercompany loans and must maintain a minimum solvency margin. Additionally, AXIS Specialty Ireland has agreed with the Irish Financial Regulator to limit the level of reinsurance business that it writes. These rules and regulations may have the effect of restricting the ability of AXIS Specialty Ireland to write new business or distribute assets to AXIS Capital. AXIS Re Ireland. AXIS Re Ireland is a reinsurance company incorporated under the laws of Ireland. Under Irish law, a reinsurance company is required to maintain a minimum level of paid up share capital. As a general matter, AXIS Re Ireland is not currently subject to the same level of regulation in Ireland as AXIS Specialty Ireland. However, the Insurance Acts and Regulations provide that the Irish Financial Regulator has the power to direct AXIS Re Ireland to cease writing business indefinitely or for a specified period for, among other grounds, inadequate capitalization, 36 unsuitable directors and/or management or insufficient staff based in Ireland. Changes in these laws and regulations or the interpretation of these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, the European Commission has recently adopted a directive to establish a harmonized framework for reinsurance supervision in the EU. Once implemented by the various EU member states, the reinsurance directive will permit a reinsurer licensed in one EU member state, which has notified its “home state” regulator of its intention to do so, to carry on business in any other EU member state without requiring further authorization. The proposed new supervisory regime for reinsurers will be largely based on existing rules for direct insurers with some modifications. Upon implementation of the reinsurance directive by Ireland, expected to take place in early 2006, AXIS Re Ireland will be subject to more stringent regulatory requirements such as capitalization, maintenance of reserves, reserving policy, investment policy, solvency requirements and the filing of returns. If AXIS Re Ireland were unable to comply with these requirements, it would not be lawful for it to continue to carry on its business and it would have to cease operations. Differences in interpretation of the reinsurance directive in the period following implementation may make it more difficult for us to transact business across EU member states. Transacting business through the Zurich branch of AXIS Re Ireland may be particularly difficult as EU regulators and authorities may misunderstand the legal status of this branch. Our inability to obtain the necessary credit could affect our ability to offer reinsurance in certain markets. Neither AXIS Specialty Bermuda nor AXIS Re Ireland is licensed or admitted as an insurer in any jurisdiction other than Bermuda and Ireland, respectively. Because the U.S. and some other jurisdictions do not permit insurance companies to take credit for reinsurance obtained from unlicensed or non-admitted insurers on their statutory financial statements unless appropriate security mechanisms are in place, our reinsurance clients typically require AXIS Specialty Bermuda and AXIS Re Ireland to post letters of credit or other collateral. Our credit facility is used to post letters of credit. However, if our credit facility is not sufficient or if we are unable to renew the credit facility or are unable to arrange for other types of security on commercially reasonable terms, AXIS Specialty Bermuda and AXIS Re Ireland could be limited in its ability to write business for some of our clients. Our ability to pay dividends and to make payments on indebtedness may be constrained by our holding company structure and regulatory constraints. AXIS Capital is a holding company and has no direct operations of its own. AXIS Capital has no significant operations or assets other than its ownership of the shares of its operating insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries, AXIS Specialty Bermuda, AXIS Re Ireland, AXIS Specialty Ireland, AXIS Re U.S., AXIS Specialty U.S., AXIS Surplus U.S. and AXIS Insurance U.S. (collectively, our “Insurance Subsidiaries”). Dividends and other permitted distributions from our Insurance Subsidiaries are our primary source of funds to meet ongoing cash requirements, including debt service payments and other expenses, and to pay dividends to our shareholders. Our Insurance Subsidiaries are subject to significant regulatory restrictions limiting their ability to declare and pay dividends and make distributions. The inability of our Insurance Subsidiaries to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our cash requirements at the holding company level could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to pay dividends and make payments on our indebtedness. 37 AXIS Capital is subject to Bermuda regulatory constraints that affect its ability to declare and pay dividends on its common shares and make other payments. Under the Companies Act, AXIS Capital may declare or pay a dividend or make a distribution out of contributed surplus only if it has no reasonable grounds for believing that it is, or would after the payment be, unable to pay its liabilities as they become due or that the realizable value of its assets would thereby be less than the aggregate of its liabilities and issued share capital and share premium accounts. Our founding shareholders and some of our directors may have conflicts of interest with us. Our founding shareholders and some of our directors hold positions or engage in commercial activities with us or in competition with us, which may give rise to conflicts of interest. Of our directors, Mr. Charles Davis is a member and the Chief Executive Officer of Stone Point Capital LLC, Mr. Robert Friedman is a Senior Managing Director of The Blackstone Group, L.P., Mr. Thomas Forrester is the Chief Financial Officer of The Progressive Corporation and Mr. Frank Tasco is a director of Travelers Property Casualty Corp. Our directors have sponsored, and may in the future sponsor, other entities engaged in or intending to engage in insurance and reinsurance, some of which may compete with us. They have also entered into or may in the future enter into agreements with companies that may compete with us. We do not have any agreement or understanding with any of these parties regarding the resolution of potential conflicts of interest. We may not be in a position to influence any party’s decision to engage in activities that would give rise to a conflict of interest. These parties may take actions that are not in our shareholders’ best interests. Our participation in a securities lending program subjects us to risk of default by the borrowers. We participate in a securities lending program whereby our securities are loaned to third parties through a lending agent. The loaned securities are collateralized by cash, government securities and letters of credit in excess of the fair market value of the securities held by the lending agent. However, sharp changes in market values of substantial amounts of securities and the failure of the borrowers to honor their commitments, or default by the lending agent in remitting the collateral to us, could have a material adverse effect on our fixed maturity investments or our results of operations. AXIS Capital is a Bermuda company and it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments against it or its directors and executive officers. AXIS Capital is incorporated pursuant to the laws of Bermuda and our business is based in Bermuda. In addition, some of our directors and officers reside outside the United States, and all or a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of such persons are located in jurisdictions outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible to effect service of process within the United States upon those persons or to recover against us or them on judgments of U.S. courts, including judgments predicated upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Further, it may not be possible to bring a claim in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers for violation of U.S. federal securities laws because these laws may have no extraterritorial application under Bermuda law and do not have force of law in Bermuda. A Bermuda court may, however, impose civil liability, including the possibility of monetary damages, on us or our directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda law. 38 We have been advised by Conyers Dill & Pearman, our Bermuda counsel, that there is doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our directors and officers, as well as any experts named herein, or in any registration statement we file predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or whether proceedings could be commenced in the courts of Bermuda against us or such persons predicated solely upon U.S. federal securities laws. Further, we have been advised by Conyers Dill & Pearman that there is no treaty in effect between the United States and Bermuda providing for the enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, and there may be grounds upon which Bermuda courts will not enforce judgments of U.S. courts. Some remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including some remedies available under the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be allowed in Bermuda courts as contrary to that jurisdiction’s public policy. Risks Related to Our Industry We operate in a highly competitive environment. The insurance and reinsurance industry is highly competitive. We compete on an international and regional basis with major U.S., Bermuda, European and other international insurers and reinsurers and with Lloyds’ underwriting syndicates, some of which have greater financial, marketing and management resources than we do. We also compete with new companies that continue to be formed to enter the insurance and reinsurance markets. In addition, capital market participants have recently created alternative products that are intended to compete with reinsurance products. Increased competition could result in fewer submissions, lower premium rates and less favorable policy terms and conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our growth and profitability. The insurance and reinsurance business is historically cyclical, and we expect to experience periods with excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable premium rates. The insurance and reinsurance business historically has been a cyclical industry characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted favorable premium levels. An increase in premium levels is often offset by an increasing supply of insurance and reinsurance capacity, either by capital provided by new entrants or by the commitment of additional capital by existing insurers or reinsurers, which may cause prices to decrease. Any of these factors could lead to a significant reduction in premium rates, less favorable policy terms and fewer submissions for our underwriting services. In addition to these considerations, changes in the frequency and severity of losses suffered by insureds and insurers may affect the cycles of the insurance and reinsurance business significantly. The impact of the investigations into anti-competitive practices in the insurance industry and related lawsuits cannot be predicted and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our U.S. holding company has received subpoenas from the Office of the Attorney General of the State of New York seeking information regarding incentive commission agreements, fictitious and inflated quotes and related matters and conditioning direct insurance on the placement of reinsurance. In addition, our U.S. insurance companies have received subpoenas and requests for information from various state insurance regulators regarding these same matters. These inquiries 39 are part of industry-wide investigations in these jurisdictions and we understand that officials from other jurisdictions in which we do business have also initiated investigations into similar matters. Accordingly, we may in the future receive additional subpoenas and requests for information. We are cooperating fully with the Attorney General of the State of New York and the other state regulators in their investigations and intend to cooperate fully with any future investigations. Responding to subpoenas and requests for information and cooperating with investigations is very costly and diverts management’s time and efforts away from our operations. In addition, we could be subject to civil and criminal actions, sanctions and penalties as a result of these investigations. In addition, a purported shareholders class action lawsuit has been filed against us and some of our executive officers relating to the practices being investigated by the Attorney General of the State of New York and other state regulators. In re Axis Capital Holdings Ltd. Securities Litigation is pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York and alleges securities violations in connection with the failure to disclose payments made pursuant to incentive commission arrangements and seeks damages in an unspecified amount. Furthermore, AXIS Surplus U.S., AXIS Re U.S. and AXIS Insurance U.S. are defendants in a putative class action lawsuit captioned In re Insurance Brokerage Antitrust Litigation. The lawsuit is pending in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey and includes as defendants numerous insurance brokers and insurance companies. The lawsuit alleges antitrust and RICO violations in connection with the payment of contingent commissions and manipulation of insurance bids and seeks damages in an unspecified amount. We believe that these lawsuits are completely without merit and intend to vigorously defend against them; however, additional similar lawsuits may be filed against us and if the plaintiffs were to prevail in any of these lawsuits we could be subject to substantial damages. We are party to various legal proceedings generally arising in the ordinary course of our insurance and reinsurance businesses. We do not believe that the eventual outcome of any litigation or arbitration proceeding to which we are presently a party will have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition; however, every proceeding contains an element of uncertainty and if the plaintiffs were to prevail in some of these proceedings we could be subject to substantial damages. Risks Related to Taxation We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after March 28, 2016, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966 of Bermuda, as amended, has given each of AXIS Capital and AXIS Specialty Bermuda an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to AXIS Capital, AXIS Specialty Bermuda or any of their respective operations, shares, debentures or other obligations until March 28, 2016. Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance’s assurance, we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 28, 2016. 40 Our non-U.S. companies may be subject to U.S. tax that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. AXIS Capital and AXIS Specialty Bermuda are Bermuda companies, AXIS Ireland Holdings, AXIS Re Ireland and AXIS Specialty Ireland are Irish companies and AXIS Specialty U.K. Holdings Limited (“AXIS U.K. Holdings”) is a U.K. company. We intend to manage our business so that each of these companies will operate in such a manner that none of these companies should be subject to U.S. tax (other than U.S. excise tax on insurance and reinsurance premium income attributable to insuring or reinsuring U.S. risks and U.S. withholding tax on some types of U.S. source investment income), because none of these companies should be treated as engaged in a trade or business within the United States. However, because there is considerable uncertainty as to the activities that constitute being engaged in a trade or business within the United States, we cannot be certain that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) will not contend successfully that any of AXIS Capital or its non-U.S. subsidiaries is/are engaged in a trade or business in the United States. If AXIS Capital or any of its non-U.S. subsidiaries were considered to be engaged in a trade or business in the United States, it could be subject to U.S. corporate income and additional branch profits taxes on the portion of its earnings effectively connected to such U.S. business. If this were to be the case, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our non-U.K. companies may be subject to U.K. tax that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We intend to operate in such a manner so that none of our companies, other than AXIS U.K. Holdings, should be resident in the United Kingdom for tax purposes and that none of our companies, other than AXIS Ireland Holdings and AXIS Specialty Ireland, should have a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom. Accordingly, we expect that none of our companies other than., AXIS U.K. Holdings, AXIS Ireland Holdings and AXIS Specialty Ireland should be subject to U.K. tax. Nevertheless, because neither case law nor U.K. statutes conclusively define the activities that constitute trading in the United Kingdom through a permanent establishment, the U.K. Inland Revenue might contend successfully that any of our companies, in addition to AXIS U.K. Holdings, AXIS Ireland Holdings and AXIS Specialty Ireland, is/are trading in the United Kingdom through a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom and therefore subject to U.K. tax. If this were the case, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our non-Irish companies may be subject to Irish tax that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We intend to operate in such a manner so that none of our companies, other than AXIS Ireland Holdings, AXIS Re Ireland and AXIS Specialty Ireland, should be resident in Ireland for tax purposes and that none of our companies, other than AXIS Ireland Holdings, AXIS Re Ireland and AXIS Specialty Ireland, should be treated as carrying on a trade through a branch or agency in Ireland. Accordingly, we expect that none of our companies other than AXIS Ireland Holdings, AXIS Re Ireland and AXIS Specialty Ireland should be subject to Irish corporation tax. Nevertheless, since the determination as to whether a company is resident in Ireland is a question of fact to be determined based on a number of different factors and since neither case law nor Irish legislation conclusively defines the activities that constitute trading in Ireland through a branch or agency, the Irish Revenue Commissioners might contend successfully that any of our companies, in addition to AXIS Ireland Holdings, AXIS Re Ireland and AXIS Specialty Ireland, is resident in or 41 otherwise trading through a branch or agency in Ireland and therefore subject to Irish corporation tax. If this were the case, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If corporate tax rates in Ireland increase, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Trading income derived from the insurance and reinsurance businesses carried on in Ireland by AXIS Specialty Ireland and AXIS Re Ireland is generally taxed in Ireland at a rate of 12.5%. Over the past number of years, various EU member states have, from time to time, called for harmonization of corporate tax rates within the EU. Ireland, along with other member states, has consistently resisted any movement towards standardized corporate tax rates in the EU. The Government of Ireland has also made clear its commitment to retain the 12.5% rate of corporation tax until at least the year 2025. If, however, tax laws in Ireland change so as to increase the general corporation tax rate in Ireland, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If investments held by AXIS Specialty Ireland or AXIS Re Ireland are determined not to be integral to the insurance and reinsurance businesses carried on by those companies, additional Irish tax could be imposed and our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Based on administrative practice, taxable income derived from investments made by AXIS Specialty Ireland and AXIS Re Ireland is generally taxed in Ireland at the rate of 12.5% on the grounds that such investments either form part of the permanent capital required by regulatory authorities, or are otherwise integral to the insurance and reinsurance businesses carried on by those companies. AXIS Specialty Ireland and AXIS Re Ireland intend to operate in such a manner so that the level of investments held by such companies does not exceed the amount that is integral to the insurance and reinsurance businesses carried on by AXIS Specialty Ireland and AXIS Re Ireland. If, however, investment income earned by AXIS Specialty Ireland or AXIS Re Ireland exceeds these thresholds, or if the administrative practice of the Irish Revenue Commissioners changes, Irish corporation tax could apply to such investment income at a higher rate (currently 25%) instead of the general 12.5% rate, and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The impact of Bermuda’s letter of commitment to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to eliminate harmful tax practices is uncertain and could adversely affect our tax status in Bermuda. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (the “OECD”) has published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. In the OECD’s report dated April 18, 2002 and updated as of June 2004 and November 2005 via a “Global Forum”, Bermuda was not listed as an uncooperative tax haven jurisdiction because it had previously committed to eliminate harmful tax practices and to embrace international tax standards for transparency, exchange of information and the elimination of any aspects of the regimes for financial and other services that attract business with no substantial domestic activity. We are not able to predict what changes will arise from the commitment or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 42 