RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information and the consolidated financial statements of the Telkom Group and Vodacom and the related notesthereto included elsewhere in this annual report before making an investment decision with respect toTelkom’s ordinary shares or ADSs. Risks Related to our Business Increased competition in the South African telecommunications market may result in areduction in overall average tariffs and market share in our fixed-line business, which couldcause our growth rates, operating revenue, costs and net profit to decline. Telkom had the exclusive right to provide public switched telecommunications services, including international telephone services, in the Republic of South Africa until May 7, 2002, but for a number ofyears has competed with mobile operators, value added network service operators, or VANSoperators, Sentech Limited, formerly known as Sentech (Proprietary) Limited and referred to hereinas Sentech, which was issued an international carrier of carriers license and a multi media license inMay 2002, and with service providers who use least cost routing technology. In addition, in September2004, the South African Minister of Communications granted a license to provide public switchedtelecommunications services to a second national operator that will be 30% owned by TranstelLimited, or Transtel, and Eskom Enterprises (Proprietary) Limited, or Esitel, which are beneficiallyowned by the South African Government, and other strategic equity investors, including 26%beneficially owned by TATA Africa Hol dings (Proprietary) Limited, a member of the TATA Group.ICASA is in the process of issuing this license. Further competition may arise as a result of anassessment by the Minister of Communications of the feasibility of issuing additional licenses toprovide or resell public switched telecommunications services from May 2005, however, nodetermination has yet been published. A process has also commenced to issue additional licenses tosmall business operators to provide telecommunications services in underserviced areas with ateledensity of less than 5%. The Minister of Communications has identified 27 of these underservicedareas. ICASA has issued licenses to successful bidders in seven of these areas and it is expectedthat further licenses will be issued in 2005 and later. In September 2004, the Minister of Communications issued determinations pursuant to which, since February 1, 2005: • mobile cellular operators have been permitted to obtain fixed telecommunications links from parties other than Telkom; • VANS operators and private network operators have been permitted to resell the telecommunications facilities that they obtain from Telkom; • VANS operators have been permitted to allow their services for the carrying of voice; • Telkom is no longer the sole provider of facilities to VANS operators; and • licensing for the provision of payphone services has been expanded. We expect that these developments will further increase competition. There are currently different views as to whether mobile cellular operators are permitted to self provide fixed telecommunicationslinks and whether VANS operators are allowed to provide voice over internet protocol to the generalpublic or only to their own customers to whom they provide value added services, however, if mobilecellular operators are permitted to self provide fixed telecommunications links and VANS operatorsare permitted to provide voice over internet protocol to the general public, we would face significantlymore competition in the provision of leased lines and voice services. We cannot predict which viewwill prevail because the necessary regulations have not yet been published. In addition, in March 22 2005, the Minister of Communications tabled a Convergence Bill in Parliament to promoteconvergence and establish the legal framework for convergence in the broadcasting, broadcastingsignal distribution and telecommunications sectors. We expect that the new licensing framework willresult in the market becoming more horizontally integrated and will further increase competition in ourfixed-line business. In addition, the process of converting our licenses to the new licensing frameworkmay be lengthy and complex and could result in the imposition of additional obligations and limitationsin connection with the converted licenses, which could disrupt our business operations and decreaseour net profit. We expect that the introduction of number portability could further enhance competition and increase our churn rates. As competition intensifies, the main challenges our fixed-line business facesare continuing to improve customer loyalty and maintaining its leadership in the South Africancommunications market. As a result of increasing competition, we anticipate a reduction in overallaverage tariffs and market share in our fixed-line business, which could cause our growth rates,operating revenue and net profit to decline. Competition from the three existing mobile communications network operators in South Africahas resulted in significant customer migration and call substitution from fixed-line to mobileservices. If this customer migration and call substitution continues, our growth rates,operating revenue and net profit could decline. Telkom competes with the three existing mobile communications network operators, Vodacom, Mobile Telephone Network Holdings (Proprietary) Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of MTN GroupLimited, a public company listed on the JSE, or MTN, and Cell C (Proprietary) Limited or Cell C, forcustomers. Telkom also competes with other service providers who use least cost routing technologythat enables fixed-to-mobile calls from corporate private branch exchanges to bypass our fixed-linenetwork by being transferred directly to mobile networks. Telkom has experienced significant customermigration in recent years from fixed-line services to mobile services, as well as substitution of callsplaced using mobile services rather than our fixed-line service, with the increase in mobile penetrationin South Africa. If this migration continues, our growth rates, operating revenue and net profit coulddecline. The rapid growth in the mobile market in South Africa has resulted in a significant increase inthe number of Vodacom and Telkom calls terminating on other mobile networks as opposed toour fixed-line network. Vodacom’s and Telkom’s margins and net profit could decline if thistrend continues. Vodacom and Telkom have experienced a significant change in the traffic mix as mobile customers increased relative to fixed-line customers. This resulted in an increasing percentage ofcalls from Vodacom’s network and our fixed-line network terminating on other mobile networks ratherthan our fixed-line network. Vodacom’s interconnection payments have increased and its margins havedecreased because the cost of terminating calls on other mobile networks is higher than the cost ofterminating calls on Telkom’s fixed-line network. As a result, Vodacom’s South African net interconnectrevenue has been declining in recent years. Similarly, Telkom has incurred increased payments toother operators as a result of the growth in interconnection traffic for fixed-line calls terminating onother mobile networks. If mobile customers continue to increase and there is little or no growth infixed-line customers, this trend could continue and Vodacom’s and Telkom’s mar gins and net profitcould decline. 23 Increased competition in the mobile communications markets in South Africa and otherAfrican countries may result in a reduction of Vodacom’s average tariffs and Vodacom’smarket share and increased customer acquisition and retention costs, which could causeVodacom’s growth rates, revenue and net profit to decline. Vodacom faces intense competition in the mobile communications markets in South Africa and other African countries. At March 31, 2005, Vodacom estimates that it held approximately 56%, MTNheld approximately 35% and Cell C held approximately 9% of the South African mobilecommunications market, based on total estimated customers. Increasing competition, together withthe further liberalization of the South African telecommunications industry, may result in a reduction inVodacom’s overall average tariffs, loss of market share and increased customer acquisition andretention costs, which could cause Vodacom’s growth rates, revenue and net profit to decline. The value of Vodacom’s investments outside of South Africa and its revenue and net profitmay decline as a result of political, economic, regulatory and legal developments in thecountries where Vodacom has invested. Vodacom currently has investments in mobile communications network operators in Lesotho, Tanzania, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Mozambique and Vodacom and the VirginGroup recently confirmed their intention to form a consortium together to undertake a joint bid for acontrolling stake in Nigeria’s V-Mobile. These countries have political, economic, regulatory and legalsystems that are still in the process of transformation and are less developed than those in theRepublic of South Africa. Political or economic upheaval or changes in laws and regulations or in theirapplication may harm the operations of the companies in which Vodacom invests and impact thevalue of these investments. The regulatory environments in these countries often lack clarity in anumber of areas and are subject to varying interpretations. In addition, many of these countries sufferfrom extreme poverty, civil strife, political conflict and political mismanagement, all of which couldcause the value of Vodacom’s investments in these countries and Vodacom’s revenue and net profit todecline. In particular, the DRC’s first democratic elections are planned for the coming year, theoutcome of which will determine future political stability and economic growth. Most of the fixed-line operators in these countries are still state controlled. As a result, the mobile communications network operators in which Vodacom has invested may encounter difficulties innegotiating commercially acceptable interconnection agreements and collecting amounts due underinterconnection agreements as Vodacom has experienced in Tanzania and the Democratic Republicof the Congo. In addition, a number of jurisdictions in which Vodacom invests have imposed pricecontrols, particularly for interconnection, which could reduce Vodacom’s net profit and cause the valueof Vodacom’s investments in these other African countries to decline. There are also foreign exchangecontrol restrictions in South Africa, which may restrict Vodacom’s ability to fund its investments inthese countries, and there are foreign exchange controls in a majority of these countries, which mayrestrict Vodacom’s ability to extract value from these investments. The number of mobile operators and mobile licenses available for acquisition and otheravailable investment opportunities for our fixed-line business in other African countries islimited. Moreover, the acquisition of mobile operators and licenses and the consummation ofother investments in other African countries may be unsuccessful, which could have a materialadverse effect on Vodacom’s and Telkom’s future growth. A substantial part of Vodacom’s future growth is expected to be from acquisitions of mobile operators or licenses in other African countries. In addition, Telkom is pursuing other investments incountries throughout the African continent. There are significant risks associated with Vodacom’s andTelkom’s ability to identify and successfully acquire mobile operators and licenses or make otherinvestments in other African countries. There are a limited number of mobile operators and licenses 24 and investment opportunities in other African countries available for acquisition and there issubstantial competition for the types of mobile operators and licenses Vodacom targets andinvestment opportunities that would meet Telkom’s criteria. As described in the previous risk factor,many countries in Africa have political, economic, regulatory and legal systems that are still in theprocess of transformation and are less developed than those in the Republic of South Africa andmany of these countries suffer from extreme poverty, civil strife, political conflict and politicalmismanagement and are subject to less developed corporate governance, business practices andbureaucratic and regulatory delays. In addition, South African foreign exchange control limitationscould delay or prevent investments by Vodacom and Telkom in these countries. There are also alimited number of partners that are a ble to arrange their own funding to invest in ventures in otherAfrican countries with Telkom and Vodacom and Telkom does not have significant prior experienceinvesting outside of South Africa. To the extent Vodacom and Telkom are not able to grow throughacquisitions and other investments in other African countries, our stock price could decline. Moreover,Vodacom and Telkom could expend a substantial amount of time and capital pursuing acquisitionsthey do not consummate, which could adversely affect their business, financial condition, results ofoperations and growth. The expansion of Vodacom’s and Telkom’s operations in other African countries may place a significant strain on their management, financial and other resources. Their ability to manage futuregrowth in other African countries will depend upon their ability to monitor operations, maintain effectivequality, corporate governance and financial controls and significantly expand their internalmanagement, technical and accounting systems, all of which will result in higher operating expenses.The integration of acquired mobile operators or licenses and other businesses and investments inother African countries may involve, among other things, integration of switching, transmission,technical, sales, marketing, billing, accounting, quality control, management, personnel, payroll,regulatory compliance and other systems and operating hardware and software, some of which maybe incompatible with their existing systems and therefore may need to be replaced. In addition,telecommunications operators generally experience higher customer and employee turnover ratesduring and after an acquisition or launch of service. We cannot assure that Vodacom and Telkom willbe able to integrate successfully the mobile operators, mobile licenses or other operations they mayacquire in other African countries. If we lose key personnel or if we are unable to hire and retain highly qualified employees,including a new chief executive officer, our business operations could be disrupted and couldimpact on our ability to compete successfully. Our success, including the success of Vodacom, depends in large part on our ability to hire and retain highly qualified employees who possess the requisite qualifications and technical skills. Telkomand Vodacom do not have long term employment agreements with a majority of their seniormanagement, any of whom may terminate their employment with us. The loss of key personnel coulddisrupt our business operations if we are unable to replace them with similarly qualified individuals.Following the sale by Thintana Communications of its remaining interest in Telkom in November 2004,all of Thintana’s representatives on Telkom’s board and management designees were replaced. Inaddition, in April 2005, Sizwe Nxasana, Telkom’s chief executive officer, announced that he haddecided not to renew his service contract, which expires on December 31, 2005 in order to explorenew challenges. We expect that competition for employees in the South African communicationsindustry will increase as new competitors enter the market. If we lose a number of our key employeesto our competitors or are not able to continue to attract and retain highly qualified employees,including a new chief executive officer, our business operations could be disrupted and our ability tocompete could be harmed. 25 We do not have the right to appoint the majority of Vodacom’s directors or members of itsdirecting committee and the Vodacom joint venture agreement contains approval rights thatmay limit our flexibility and ability to implement our preferred strategies. Although we are a 50% shareholder in Vodacom, our flexibility and ability to implement our preferred strategies may be limited by the fact that we do not have the right to appoint the majority ofVodacom’s directors or members of its directing committee. In addition, under our memorandum andarticles of association, the Government is entitled to nominate the directors we appoint to theVodacom board. The Vodacom joint venture agreement, which governs the relationship betweenTelkom and the other shareholders of Vodacom, requires each of Vodacom’s shareholders who own10% or more of Vodacom’s shares to approve certain material transactions. As a result of thesefactors, we may not be able to impose strategies on Vodacom that we believe to be beneficial to uswithout the approval of Vodacom’s other shareholders. If Vodacom does not continue to pay dividends or make other distributions to Telkom, Telkommay not be able to pay dividends and service its debt and could be required to lower or defercapital expenditures, dividends and debt reduction, which could cause the trading prices ofTelkom’s ordinary shares and ADSs to decline. Telkom receives dividends from Vodacom which Telkom uses to fund a portion of its capital and operating expenditures and service its debt and other financial obligations. Vodacom is legally distinctfrom Telkom and has no obligation to pay dividends or make other distributions to Telkom. Vodacom’sability to pay dividends and make other distributions to Telkom may be restricted by, among otherthings, its operations and the availability of funds and the terms of credit and debt arrangementsentered into by it, as well as statutory and other legal restrictions. In addition, Vodacom’s ability to paydividends or make distributions to Telkom and its other shareholders requires the approval ofVodacom’s shareholders who own 10% or more of Vodacom’s shares. To the extent that Vodacom isunable to, or otherwise does not, pay dividends or make other distributions to Telkom in the future,Telkom may not be able to pay dividends and service its debt and could be required to lower or defercapital expenditures, dividends and debt reduction, which could cause the trading prices of Telkom’sordinary shares and ADSs to decline. If we are not able to continue to improve and maintain our management information and othersystems, our ability to provide accurate and comprehensive operating information and tocompete may be harmed. Our billing and other customer management information systems do not provide management with certain operating data and financial information on a real-time basis that at times has made ourbudgeting and planning processes difficult. In addition, our billing and other information systems arenot yet fully integrated and therefore are not capable of providing us with comprehensive and detailedoperating information, including the traffic carried on our fixed-line network, and we cannot provide asingle bill for customers with multiple locations and products. To address these problems, we are inthe process of developing and implementing a unified customer management system capable ofgenerating a single bill for a customer. The full integration between our various operational supportsystems is not expected to be complete until 2007 or 2008. Since November 2003, we have renewedour focus on information risk management and have identified several requirements for improvedsecurity of Telkom& #8217;s information technology systems. Completion and compliance verification isexpected during the 2006 financial year. To the extent we are not able to improve our systems andfully address these vulnerabilities, our ability to provide accurate and comprehensive operatinginformation and to compete effectively in the increasingly liberalized South African communicationsmarket may be harmed. In addition, some of the information systems in Vodacom’s other Africanoperations are new and are not capable of providing management on a real-time basis with operatingdata and financial information. 26 We have negative working capital, which may impair our operating and financial flexibility andrequire us to defer capital expenditures and we may not be able to pay dividends and ouroperations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We had negative consolidated working capital of R2.0 billion as of March 31, 2005 compared to negative consolidated working capital of R3.9 billion as of March 31, 2004 and R5.2 billion as ofMarch 31, 2003. Negative working capital arises when current liabilities are greater than currentassets. We intend to fund current liabilities through a combination of operating cash flows, newborrowings and borrowings available under existing credit facilities. We had R4.8 billion availableunder existing credit facilities as of March 31, 2005. If we are unable to generate sufficient operatingcash flows or borrowings to fund our current liabilities, our operating and financial flexibility could beimpaired and we may be required to defer capital expenditures and may not be able to pay dividendsand our business operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. Continuing rapid changes in technologies could increase competition or require us to makesubstantial additional investments in technologies, which could reduce our return oninvestment and net profit. The services we offer are technology intensive. The development of new technologies, such as fixed wireless services and packet radio services, could increase competition and make ourtechnology obsolete. We may have to make substantial additional investments in new technologies toremain competitive. New technologies we choose may prove not to be commercially successful. As aresult, we could lose customers, fail to attract new customers or incur substantial costs in order tomaintain our customer bases, which could reduce our return on investments and net profit. Delays in the development and supply of communications equipment may hinder thedeployment of new technologies and services and cause our growth rates and net profit todecline. Our operations, including the operations of Vodacom, depend in part upon the successful and timely supply of evolving fixed and mobile communications technologies. We use technologies from anumber of suppliers and make significant capital investments in connection with communicationstechnologies. If technologies are not developed or delivered by our suppliers on time or do notperform according to expectations or achieve commercial acceptance, we may be required to delayservice introductions and make additional capital expenditures and we could be required to write-offinvestments in technology, which could cause our growth rates and net profit to decline. If we continue to experience high rates of theft, vandalism, network fraud, payphone fraud andlost revenue due to non-licensed operators in our fixed-line business, our fixed-line fault ratescould increase and our operating revenue and net profit could decline. We have historically experienced significant cable theft, theft of solar panels and wireless communications equipment, vandalism of payphones, network fraud, such as non-licensed calls, andpayphone fraud in our fixed-line business. Theft and vandalism have caused our fixed-line fault ratesto increase and the repair time on our network and the network downtime associated with such faultsand network fraud and payphone fraud have resulted in lost operating revenue and significant costs.We have also lost operating revenue to non-licensed operators providing telecommunications servicesin South Africa. If we are unable to continue to minimize theft, vandalism, network fraud andpayphone fraud or if we continue to lose operating revenue to non-licensed operators in our fixed-linebusiness, our fixed-line fault rates could increase and our operating revenue and net profit coulddecline. 27 We may need to improve our internal control over financial reporting and our independentauditors may not be able to attest to their effectiveness, which could have a significant adverseeffect on our business operations, reputation and net profit. We are evaluating our internal control over financial reporting in order to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, our internal control over financial reporting, asrequired by Section 404 of the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations of theSEC thereunder, which we refer to as Section 404. We are currently performing the system andprocess evaluation and testing required, and any necessary remediation, in an effort to comply withthe management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404. The managementcertification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 will initially apply to Telkom for itsannual report on Form 20-F for the year ended March 31, 2007. In the course of our ongoing Section 404 evaluation, we have identified areas of internal control over financial reporting that mayneed improvement and have designed enhanced processes and controls and plan to design additionalenhanced processes and co ntrols, as necessary, to address these and any other issues that might beidentified in the future through this review. In addition, as discussed in Item 15. “Controls andProcedures”, Telkom has identified errors in its consolidated financial statements and determined thatit was necessary to restate its previously issued consolidated financial statements and its auditors,Ernst & Young, have notified Telkom that they had identified two material weaknesses and fivesignificant deficiencies under standards established by the Public Company Accounting OversightBoard. As we are still in the evaluation process, we may identify other conditions that may result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the future, which could impact our ability to complywith Section 404 in a timely manner. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, our independent auditors may not be able to attestto the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and we may be subject to sanctionsor investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. As a result, there could be a negativereaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financialstatements. In addition, we may be required to incur costs in improving our internal control system.Any such action could negatively affect our results and have a significant adverse effect on ourbusiness operations, reputation and net profit. Actual or perceived health risks relating to mobile handsets, base stations and associatedequipment and any related publicity or litigation could make it difficult to find attractive sitesfor base stations and reduce Vodacom’s growth rates, customer base, average usage percustomer and net profit. Concern has been expressed that the electromagnetic signals from mobile handsets, base stations and associated equipment may pose health risks. Actual or perceived risks of mobilehandsets or base stations and related publicity or litigation, could make it difficult to find attractivesites for base stations and reduce Vodacom’s growth rates, customer base, average usage percustomer and net profit. Risks Related to Telkom’s Ownership by the Government of South Africa and MajorShareholders Telkom’s major shareholders are entitled to appoint the majority of Telkom’s directors andexercise control over Telkom’s strategic direction and major corporate actions. The Government of the Republic of South Africa owned 37.7% of Telkom’s issued and 39.4% of Telkom’s outstanding ordinary shares plus the class A ordinary share as of June 28, 2005. Through itsownership and voting arrangements provided for in Telkom’s articles of association, the Governmentis entitled to appoint five of Telkom’s directors, and is able to exert considerable influence over 28 Telkom’s corporate governance, strategic direction and major corporate actions and to appointdirectors of Telkom’s subsidiaries and the Vodacom joint venture. In addition, as of June 28, 2005, thePublic Investment Corporation, an investment management company wholly owned by the SouthAfrican Government, held 14.5% of Telkom’s issued and 15.1% of Telkom’s outstanding ordinaryshares, which includes 6.1% of Telkom issued and 6.4% of Telkom’s outstanding shares acquired inthe market, and, through its ownership of Telkom’s class B ordinary share, is entitled to appoint one ofTelkom’s directors. Telkom’s articles of association require Telkom to obtain written consent from the Government before taking actions that would limit Telkom’s ability to provide public switched telecommunicationservices. Telkom’s articles of association also require the approval of directors appointed by theGovernment in order for Telkom or any of its subsidiaries, including Vodacom, to enter into majorcorporate actions and transactions, including amendments to Telkom’s management structure and thepowers of Telkom’s operating committee, the approval of Telkom’s dividend policy and payment ofdividends, increases in Telkom’s indebtedness beyond certain limits and changes of control. As aresult, without the approval and participation of the Government, Telkom is not able to consummatetransactions involving an actual or potential change of control, including transactions in which youmight otherwise receive a premium for your ordinary shares or ADSs over market prices. Because theGovernment exercises control over Telkom, holders of ordinary shares and ADSs lack meaningfulpower to approve decisions of Telkom’s board of directors or to influence our strategic direction andmajor corporate actions. The Government of the Republic of South Africa may use its positions as shareholder ofTelkom and policymaker for, and customer of, the telecommunications industry in a mannerthat may be favorable to our competitors and unfavorable to us. The Government of the Republic of South Africa owned 37.7% of Telkom’s issued and 39.4% of Telkom’s outstanding ordinary shares as of June 28, 2005. The Government also holds significantequity stakes in other industry participants, including Sentech, and will have an indirect 30% equityinterest in the second national operator. To further its policy of liberalization of the telecommunicationsindustry, the Government may adopt and implement policies and exercise its right to approveregulations that benefit our competitors but are not beneficial to us. In addition, to further otherpolitical or social objectives, the Government may act in a manner that may be detrimental to ourbusiness but advantageous to our competitors. The Government of the Republic of South Africa is also one of our customers. We estimate that Government customers, excluding certain Government owned parastatal companies, accounted for atleast 9% of our total fixed-line operating revenue, excluding directory services and other revenue, inthe year ended March 31, 2005. The Government could transfer some or all of its business to thesecond national operator or other operators when they commence operations. Legislation has beenenacted to centralize all procurement of telecommunications and information technology services bythe Government, through one agency. If the Government transfers some or all of its business to otheroperators, our operating revenue and net profit could decline. 29 Risks Related to Regulatory and Legal Matters The regulatory environment for the telecommunications industry in South Africa is evolvingand final regulations addressing a number of significant matters have not yet been issued. Theinterpretation of existing regulations, or the adoption of new policies or regulations that areunfavorable to us, could disrupt our business operations and could cause our net profit andthe trading prices of Telkom’s ordinary shares and ADSs to decline. The provision of telecommunications services in the Republic of South Africa is subject to extensive regulation. The regulatory environment is developing, lacks clarity in a number of areas andis subject to interpretation, review and amendment as the telecommunications industry is furtherdeveloped and liberalized. In addition, the regulatory process entails a public comment process,which, in light of the politicized issue of privatization of industries such as telecommunications inSouth Africa, makes the outcome of the regulations uncertain and may cause delays in the regulatoryprocess. A number of significant matters have not been addressed or clarified, including: • whether mobile cellular operators are permitted to self provide fixed telecommunications links and VANS operators are allowed to provide VOIP to the general public or only to their owncustomers to whom they provide value added service; • the process of converting our licenses to the new legal framework for convergence and whether additional obligations will be imposed on our converted licenses; • the terms and conditions of the second national operator’s license; • whether and the extent to which our licenses may be amended as a result of the licensing of the second national operator; • whether any additional obligations may be imposed on us at that time or thereafter; • the extent to which our fixed-line business will be required to make its facilities or access lines available to the second national operator to provide services, other than public switchedtelecommunications services, on a resale basis, during the first two years of its license andbeyond; • the extent to which our fixed-line business may be required to unbundle its local loop after two years; and • the legal and regulatory framework that will ultimately be established to address convergence. In addition, ICASA was only established in 2000. Upon its establishment, ICASA inherited a legacy of regulatory problems from its predecessors. It has been reported that ICASA may currentlylack adequate resources to effectively fulfill its regulatory and licensing functions and to deal withregulatory challenges that continue to change given the rapidly evolving telecommunicationsenvironment. This combination of factors creates further uncertainties in the regulatory arena and theability of ICASA to effectively fulfill its functions. We cannot predict the outcome or timing of anyamendments or modifications to applicable regulations or the interpretation thereof, the release ofnew regulations or their impact on us. The Minister of Communications has indicated that anamendment to the legislation establishing ICASA will shortly be tabled in Parliament. We do not knowwhat amendments will be proposed or the functions and powers of ICASA in the context of newconvergence legislation.< /DIV> We have in the past had conflicts with ICASA and its predecessor, including litigation against them with regard to price cap regulations and interconnection and facilities leasing guidelines. Changes inthe regulation of telecommunications services in South Africa, the imposition of unfavorable terms inour licenses or the loss or unfavorable amendment of any license could disrupt our businessoperations and could cause our net profit and the trading prices of Telkom’s ordinary shares andADSs to decline. 30 In addition, new laws and regulations that may require our business customers to make use of suppliers complying with black economic empowerment requirements may affect us. If Telkom isnot able to meet the minimum requirements of these black economic empowerment initiatives orrestrictions, some of our business customers may be required or elect to obtain all or some of theirtelecommunications services from our competitors who may fulfill such ownership requirements. Our tariffs are subject to approval by the regulatory authorities, which may limit our flexibilityin pricing and could reduce our net profit. Vodacom’s revenue and net profit could decline ifwholesale price controls are imposed on it. The Telecommunications Act, 103 of 1996, and regulations made under the Act impose a price cap formula on a basket of specified services and any individual product or service within the basketof specified services that we previously had the exclusive right to provide. Historically, the overalltariffs for all services in the basket and a sub-basket of services provided to residential customerscould not be increased by more than 1.5% below inflation in South Africa, based on the consumerprice index and measured using revenue for the services in the basket at constant volumes for theprior year. The Minister of Communications has published regulations on a new price control regimethat provides for the cap to be increased from 1.5% to 3.5% and the inclusion of ADSL products andservices in the basket for which there is a price cap, effective from August 1, 2005 through July 31,2008. In addition, from January 1, 2003, the price of any individual product or service included in thebasket coul d not be increased by more than 5% above inflation in South Africa in any year. EffectiveAugust 1, 2005, the price of services in the residential sub-basket, leased lines up to and includinglines of a capacity of 2Mbit/s and the installation and rental of business exchange lines may not beincreased by more than 5% above inflation in South Africa in any year. Our tariffs for these servicesare filed with ICASA for approval. In addition, Vodacom’s revenue and net profit could decline ifwholesale price controls are imposed on it. These limitations on our customer tariffs limit our pricingflexibility and could reduce our net profit. If the Competition Commission of the Republic of South Africa were to conclude that Telkomhad committed a prohibited practice, as set out in the Competitions Act of 1998, Telkom couldincur a penalty, its business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected andits revenue and net profit could decline. The South African Value Added Network Services Association, an association of value added network service providers, or VANS providers, filed complaints against Telkom at the CompetitionCommission of the Republic of South Africa regarding alleged anti-competitive practices on the part ofTelkom. The Competition Commission found, among other things, that several aspects of Telkom’sconduct prima facie contravened the Competition Act, 89 of 1998, and referred certain of thecomplaints to the Competition Tribunal for adjudication. The complaints deal with Telkom’s allegedrefusal to provide telecommunications facilities to certain VANS providers to construct their networks,refusal to lease access facilities to VANS providers, provision of bundled and cross subsidizedcompetitive services with monopoly services, discriminatory pricing with regard to leased line servicesand alleged refusal to peer with certain VANS providers. Telkom has brought an application in theSouth African H igh Court challenging the Competition Tribunal’s jurisdiction to adjudicate this matter.These matters and the amount of Telkom’s liability are expected to be finalized within the next year. Ifthese complaints are upheld, however, Telkom could be required to cease these practices and fined anamount of up to 10% of Telkom’s annual turnover or be ordered to divest itself of the relevantbusiness. Telkom is currently unable to predict the amount that it may eventually be required to pay. IfTelkom is required to cease these practices, divest itself of the relevant business or pay significantfines, Telkom’s business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected and its revenueand net profit could decline. 31 If Telcordia Technologies Incorporated, a New Jersey corporation, were able to recoversubstantial damages in its arbitration proceedings against Telkom, Telkom would be requiredto fund such payments from cash flows or drawings on its existing credit facilities, whichcould cause Telkom’s indebtedness to increase and its net profit to decline. Telcordia instituted arbitration proceedings against Telkom in March 2001 seeking to recover approximately $130 million for monies outstanding and damages, plus costs and interest at a rate of15.5% per year. The arbitration proceedings relate to the cancellation of an agreement entered intobetween Telkom and Telcordia during June 1999 for the development and supply of an integrated end-to-end customer assurance and activation system by Telcordia. In September 2002, a partialaward was issued by the arbitrator in favor of Telcordia. Telkom subsequently filed an application inthe South African High Court to review and set aside the partial award, which was granted. On November 29,2004, the Supreme Court of Appeals granted Telcordia leave to appeal. Telcordia has since filed anotice of appeal. Telcordia also petitioned the United States District Court for the District of Columbiato confirm the partial award, which petition was dismissed, along with a subsequent appeal and asimilar petition in the United States District Court of New Jersey. Telcordia has since appealed thisdismissal. Telkom is currently unable to predict when the dispute will be resolved or the amount that itmay eventually be required to pay Telcordia, if any, and has reversed all of its provisions for estimatedliabilities, including interest and legal fees. If Telcordia recovers substantial damages from Telkom,Telkom would be required to fund such payments from cash flows or drawings on its existing creditfacilities, which could cause its indebtedness to increase and its net profit to decline. If we are unable to negotiate favorable terms, rates and conditions for the provision ofinterconnection services and facilities leasing services, our business operations could bedisrupted and our net profit could decline. Telkom is required to provide interconnection services to the mobile operators, the second national operator and all other entities that lawfully provide telecommunications services in SouthAfrica and to lease or otherwise make our telecommunications facilities available to any entity lawfullyproviding or utilizing telecommunications services in South Africa. Telkom will also be required to allowthe second national operator to use all of its telecommunications facilities and shared access to thelocal loop for the provision of public switched telecommunications services on a resale basis for thefirst two years of its license. Telkom may also be required to lease or otherwise make itstelecommunications facilities available to the second national operator for the provision of services,other than public switched telecommunications services on a resale basis, during the first two yearsand beyond. The terms and conditions for the provision of these services and facilities are, or will be,s et out in interconnection agreements and facilities leasing agreements negotiated and agreed to byTelkom with these other entities. ICASA is entitled to issue, and has issued, regulations relating to interconnection and facilities leasing. Telkom has been declared a Major Operator, and consequently will have to provide EssentialServices and facilities at cost based prices to Public Operators, such as MTN, Vodacom, Cell C,Sentech, the small business operators and eventually the second national operator. None of theseoperators have been declared to be Major Operators. New draft interconnection and facilities leasingregulations have been proposed by ICASA and published for comment that would extend the right tocost based prices to all licensees. To the extent that we are unable to reach agreement with theseentities for the provision of these services, including the applicable tariffs, or to the extent that theterms and conditions of our agreements are found to be inconsistent with the relevant legislation orregulations, such terms and conditions may be determined and imposed on us by ICASA. In May 2005ICASA initiated an enq uiry into whether MTN and Vodacom should be declared Major Operators, whichwould require them to provide interconnection services also at cost based prices. If we are unable tonegotiate favorable terms and conditions for the provision of the services and facilities covered by theguidelines or ICASA otherwise imposes terms and conditions that are unfavorable to us, our businessoperations could be disrupted and our net profit could decline. 32 If we are unable to recover the substantial capital and operational costs associated with theimplementation of carrier pre-selection, number portability and monitoring and interception orare unable to implement these requirements in a timely manner, our business operations couldbe disrupted and our net profit could decline. We were required to implement carrier pre-selection in our fixed-line business, which will enable customers to choose and vary their fixed-line telecommunications carrier for long distance andinternational calls, by December 31, 2003. The Telecommunications Act mandates that numberportability, which will enable customers to retain their fixed-line and mobile telephone numbers if theyswitch between fixed-line operators or between mobile operators, will be introduced starting in 2005.We will incur substantial set-up and maintenance time and costs in connection with theimplementation of these requirements, which could disrupt our business operations. The extent ofrecoverability of these costs have not yet been determined and finalized by ICASA. Telkom hasconditioned its exchanges to handle call-by-call carrier pre-selection by December 31, 2003. We willnot be able to fully implement carrier pre-selection until the second national operator is licensed andthe second national operator’s int erconnection systems and the inter operator process and systems tosupport carrier pre-selection become available. The carrier pre-selection regulations provide forcall-by-call carrier pre-selection to be implemented by Telkom two months and automatic carrierpre-selection to be implemented ten months after having received such request from another operatoralthough a lead time of 12 to 18 months is estimated by Telkom for implementation of automaticcarrier pre-selection. In addition, commencing in July 2003, all licensees, including Telkom andVodacom were required to install equipment and implement procedures that will allow certainagencies in the Government of the Republic of South Africa to intercept and monitor communicationsover our respective networks and retain records and copies of such communications. The proceduresand timetable for the full implementation of the interception and monitoring legislation requirementshave not been finalized. However, Telkom and Voda com have not been able to comply with the timeframe contemplated by the current draft of this legislation. To the extent that we have not complied orare unable to comply with these requirements or are unable to substantially recover these costs ofcompliance, our business operations could be disrupted and our net profit could decline. If Telkom is required to comply with the provisions of the South African Public FinanceManagement Act, 1 of 1999, or PFMA, and the provisions of the South African Public Audit Actof 2004, or PAA, Telkom could incur increased expenses and its net profit could decline andcompliance with the PFMA and PAA could result in the delisting of Telkom’s ordinary sharesand ADSs from the JSE and New York Stock Exchange. Telkom is required to comply with the provisions of the PFMA and PAA. Telkom applied for and obtained a temporary exemption from many of the provisions of the PFMA until November 2007 andhas been informed by the South African Auditor-General that it will not be required to comply with thePAA until such date. If Telkom does not obtain a further exemption from the PFMA or if it is requiredto comply with the PAA or its existing exemption from the PFMA is revoked for any reason or it isotherwise required to comply with the PFMA or PAA, Telkom may be compelled to prepare a secondset of financial statements in compliance with accounting principles and practices prescribed by theGovernment of the Republic of South Africa which do not correlate with IFRS or US GAAP and wouldrequire Telkom to incur additional costs. Telkom would also be required to comply with, what itbelieves to be, extremely prescriptive treasury regulations issued pursuant to the PFMA and PAA, toprovide the Government with a dvance access to proprietary and potentially price sensitive informationand to seek the prior approval of South African governmental authorities to enter into certain materialagreements, to maintain certain bank accounts, to formulate and implement certain investmentstrategies or to discharge its auditors, which would preclude Telkom from acting in the same manneras its competitors and other listed companies. If Telkom is required to comply with the PFMA andPAA, Telkom may not be able to comply with the Listings Requirements of the JSE or the listing rulesof the NYSE and Telkom’s ordinary shares and ADSs could be delisted. 33 Our total property tax expense could increase significantly and our net profit could decline asa result of the enactment of the South African Municipal Property Rates Act, 6 of 2004. On May 11, 2004, the South African Municipal Property Rates Act, 6 of 2004, was enacted. Pursuant to this new Act, municipalities are required to levy property tax in accordance with a ratespolicy that must be adopted and regularly reviewed by municipalities with community participationfacilitated through the municipalities annual budget process. Due in part to the fact that no rate has todate been prescribed, it is too early to assess exactly how the new Act would affect us. As asubstantial landowner in South Africa, our total property tax expense could increase significantly andour net profit could decline as a result of the implementation of this Act. Risks Related to the Republic of South Africa Fluctuations in the value of the Rand and inflation rates in South Africa could have asignificant impact on the amount of Telkom’s dividends, the trading prices of Telkom’sordinary shares and ADSs, our operating revenue, operating expenses, net profit, capitalexpenditures and on the comparability of our results between financial periods. The value of the Rand as measured against the Dollar has fluctuated in recent years. During the years ended March 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, the value of the Rand as measured against the Dollarhas increased from R11.38 per $1.00 as of March 29, 2002 to R7.90 per $1.00 as of March 31, 2003,R6.32 per $1.00 as of March 31, 2004 and R6.22 per $1.00 as of March 31, 2005. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Rand and the Dollar could have an adverse impact on: • the Dollar equivalent of any dividends and distributions on Telkom’s ordinary shares and ADSs payable in Rands; • the Dollar equivalent of the Rand denominated prices of Telkom’s ordinary shares; and • the market value of Telkom’s ADSs in the United States. These fluctuations could also impact the amount in Rand terms of our non-Rand denominated debt, impact our non-Rand denominated financing costs and operating and capital expenditures andcause our net profit to fluctuate. In addition, the volatility of the Rand as measured against the Dollarand the Euro in the three years ended March 31, 2005 resulted in significant net foreign exchangelosses primarily in each of the two years ended March 31, 2004, in terms of IAS39. See Item 5.“Operating and Financial Review and Prospects–Operating Results–Principal Factors That Affect ourResults of Operations-Volatility of the Rand and adoption of IAS39. ”Fluctuations in currencyexchange rates between the South African Rand and the currencies in African countries whereVodacom invests could decrease the value of these businesses and Vodacom’s and our net profit. The high levels of unemployment, poverty and crime in South Africa could cause the size ofthe South African communications market and our growth rates, operating revenue and netprofit, as well as the trading prices of Telkom’s ordinary shares and ADSs, to decline. While South Africa features a highly developed financial and legal infrastructure at the core of its economy, it has high levels of unemployment, poverty and crime. These problems have hinderedinvestment into South Africa, have prompted emigration of skilled workers and have impactedeconomic growth negatively. Although it is difficult to predict the effect of these problems on SouthAfrican businesses or the Government of the Republic of South Africa’s efforts to solve them, theseproblems could cause the size of the communications market and our growth rates, operating revenueand net profit, as well as the trading prices of Telkom’s ordinary shares and ADSs, to decline. 34 The high rates of HIV infection in South Africa could cause the size of the South Africancommunications market and our growth rates, operating revenue and net profit to decline. South Africa has one of the highest HIV infection rates in the world. The exact impact of increased mortality rates due to AIDS deaths on the cost of doing business in South Africa and thepotential growth in the economy is unclear at this time although employee related costs in SouthAfrica are expected to increase as a result of the AIDS epidemic and the size of the South Africanpopulation and communications market could decline. Our growth rates, operating revenue and netprofit could decline if employee related expenses increase or our labor supply or the size of the SouthAfrican population and communications market decline. Significant labor disputes, work stoppages, increased employee expenses as a result ofcollective bargaining and the cost of compliance with South African labor laws could limit ouroperating flexibility and disrupt our fixed-line business operations and reduce our net profit. Trade unions represented approximately 75% of our total Telkom employees and approximately 13% of Vodacom’s employees as of March 31, 2005. Trade unions have resisted workforce reductionsand publicly opposed our privatization and have instituted and in the future could institute workstoppages to oppose changes in our shareholding structure or gain leverage in negotiating collectivebargaining agreements. In addition, a number of South African trade unions, including the tradeunions of our employees, have close links to various political parties and have had a significantinfluence in South Africa as vehicles for social and political reform and in the collective bargainingprocess. Since 1995 South Africa has enacted various labor laws that enhance the rights ofemployees, which have imposed costs on us and have limited our flexibility and ability to implementworkforce reductions. If we are unable to implement workforce reductions as necessary, particularlyas a result of increased c ompetition, or experience significant labor disputes, work stoppages,increased employee expenses as a result of collective bargaining or compliance with labor laws, ourfixed-line business operations could be disrupted and our net profit could be reduced. South African exchange control restrictions could hinder our ability to make foreigninvestments and procure foreign denominated financings. South Africa’s exchange control regulations restrict transactions between residents of the Common Monetary Area, which consists of South Africa, the Republic of Namibia, and the Kingdomsof Lesotho and Swaziland, and non-residents of the Common Monetary Area. In particular, SouthAfrican companies are generally not permitted, without the prior approval of the Exchange Controlauthorities, to export capital from South Africa or to hold foreign currency in excess of certainprescribed limits. These restrictions could hinder our ability to make foreign investments and procure foreign denominated financings. While the South African Government has relaxed exchange controls in recentyears, it is difficult to predict whether or how it will further relax or abolish exchange control measuresin the future. See Item 10. “Additional Information–Exchange Controls.” Risks Related to Ownership of Telkom’s Ordinary Shares and ADSs The future sale of a substantial number of Telkom’s ordinary shares or ADSs could cause thetrading prices of Telkom’s ordinary shares and ADSs to decline. As of June 28, 2005, Government of the Republic of South Africa owned 37.7% of Telkom’s issued and 39.4% of Telkom’s outstanding ordinary shares, plus the class A ordinary share, the PublicInvestment Corporation owned 14.5% of Telkom’s issued and 15.1% of Telkom’s outstanding ordinaryshares, which includes 6.1% of Telkom’s issued and 6.4% of Telkom’s outstanding shares acquired inthe market, plus the class B ordinary share, and the Elephant Consortium owned 6.7% of Telkom’s 35 issued and 7.0% of Telkom’s outstanding ordinary shares. On March 4, 2003, the Governmentgranted to persons employed by Telkom on March 4, 2003 and eligible former employees of Telkom,options to purchase 11,140,636 of its ordinary shares, representing 2% of Telkom’s issued andoutstanding ordinary share capital, which are exercisable in four equal tranches over a period of threeyears commencing six months after March 4, 2003. In addition Telkom has adopted a managementand employee incentive plan that provides for the issue or grant of up to 22,281,272 ordinary shares,of which 2,943,124 have been granted as of March 31, 2005. Sales of substantial amounts of sharesby Telkom’s shareholders, or by Telkom, or the appearance that a large number of shares areavailable for sale, could cause the trading prices of Telkom’s ordinary shares and ADSs to decline.Telkom has entered into a registration rights agreement with the Government of the Republic of SouthAfrica. Pursuant to the agreement, the Government has the right to cause Telkom to either effect aJSE public offering in South Africa, or register with the Securities and Exchange Commission all orpart of their ordinary shares, or both. Your rights as a shareholder are governed by South African law, which differs in materialrespects from the rights of shareholders under the laws of other jurisdictions. Telkom is a public limited liability company incorporated under the laws of the Republic of South Africa. The rights of holders of Telkom’s ordinary shares and therefore many of the rights of Telkom’sADS holders are governed by Telkom’s articles of association and by South African law. These rightsdiffer in material respects from the rights of shareholders in companies incorporated elsewhere, suchas in the United States. In particular, South African law significantly limits the circumstances underwhich shareholders of South African companies may institute litigation on behalf of a company. For adescription of the differences between shareholders’ rights under South African law and Delaware law,see Item 10. “Additional Information–Memorandum and Articles of Incorporation–Comparison ofShareholders’ Rights Under South African and Delaware Law.” It may not be possible for you to effect service of legal process, enforce judgments of courtsoutside of South Africa or bring actions based on securities laws of jurisdictions other thanSouth Africa against Telkom or against members of its board. Telkom and all of the members of its board of directors and executive officers are residents of South Africa. In addition, Telkom’s assets and the assets of members of its board of directors andexecutive officers are located in whole or in substantial part in South Africa. As a result, it may not bepossible for you to effect service of legal process within the United States or elsewhere outside of theRepublic of South Africa upon our directors or officers, including with respect to matters arising underUS federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, it may not be possible for youto enforce against Telkom or the members of its board of directors and executive officers judgmentsobtained in courts outside South Africa, including the United States, based on the civil liabilityprovisions of the securities laws of those countries, including those of the United States. A foreignjudgment is not directly enforceable in South Africa, but constitutes a cause of action, wh ich may beenforced by South African courts with the approval of the South African Minister of Trade andIndustry. In addition, awards of punitive damages will not be enforceable in South Africa. Although it ispossible for an investor to bring an action against Telkom in a South African civil court to enforcerights in terms of US federal securities laws, these laws will not be enforced if they are penal orrevenue or taxation laws or laws which are contrary to South African public policy. It is not possibletherefore for an investor to seek to impose criminal liability on us in a South African court arising froma violation of US federal securities laws. 36 Your ability to sell a substantial number of ordinary shares and ADSs may be restricted by thelimited liquidity of ordinary shares traded on the JSE. The principal trading market for Telkom’s ordinary shares is the JSE. Historically, trading volumes and liquidity of shares listed on the JSE have been low in comparison with other major markets. Inaddition, as of March 31, 2005, only 1% of the 262,872,235 ordinary shares publicly traded, includingtreasury shares, were represented by ADSs trading on the NYSE. The limited liquidity of the ordinaryshares and ADSs could depress the trading prices of the ordinary shares and ADSs and could limityour ability to sell a substantial number of ordinary shares or ADSs in a timely manner, especially bymeans of a large block trade. 37 