RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information and the consolidated financial statements of the Telkom Group and Vodacom and the related notesthereto included elsewhere in this annual report before making an investment decision with respect to Telkom’s ordinary shares or ADSs. Risks Related to our Business Increased competition in the South African telecommunications market may result in areduction in overall average tariffs and market share and an increase in costs in our fixed-linebusiness, which could cause our growth rates, operating revenue and net profit to decline andour churn rates to increase. Telkom had the exclusive right to provide public switched telecommunications services, including international telephone services, in the Republic of South Africa until May 7, 2002 and is currently theonly provider of public switched telecommunications services in South Africa, but for a number ofyears has competed with mobile operators, value added network service operators, or VANSoperators, Sentech Limited, formerly known as Sentech (Pty) Limited and referred to herein asSentech, which was issued an international carrier of carriers license and a multi media license in May2002, and with service providers who use least cost routing technology. In September 2004, the SouthAfrican Minister of Communications granted an additional license to provide public switchedtelecommunications services to a second national operator, SNO Telecommunications (Pty) Limited,SNO-T, that is 30% owned by Transtel Limited, or Transtel, and Eskom Enterprises (Pty) Limited, orEsitel, which are beneficially owned by the South African Government, and other strategic equityinvestors, including 26% beneficially owned by TATA Africa Holdings (Pty) Limited, a member of theTATA Group, a large Indian conglomerate with information and communications operations. ICASAissued this license on December 9, 2005, however, SNO-T is not expected to commence businessactivities until the second half of the 2006 calendar year. A process has also commenced to issueadditional licenses to small business operators to provide telecommunications services inunderserviced areas with a teledensity of less than 5%. These are referred to as underserviced areaslicensees, or USALs. The Minister of Communications has identified 27 of these underserviced areas.ICASA has issued licenses to successful bidders in seven of them and has issued invitations to applyfor licenses in the remaining 20. It is expected that further licenses will be issued in the 2006 calendaryear. In September 2004, the Minister of Communications issued determinations pursuant to which, since February 1, 2005: • mobile cellular operators have been permitted to obtain fixed telecommunications links from parties other than Telkom; • VANS operators and private network operators have been permitted to resell the telecommunications facilities that they obtain from Telkom; • VANS operators have been permitted to allow their services for the carrying of voice, including voice over internet protocol; • Telkom is no longer the sole provider of facilities to VANS operators; and • licensing for the provision of payphone services has been expanded. These determinations are incorporated in the Electronic Communications Act. 24 In March 2005, the Minister of Communications tabled a Convergence Bill in Parliament to promote convergence and establish the legal framework for convergence in the broadcasting,broadcasting signal distribution and telecommunications sectors that repealed theTelecommunications Act, 103 of 1996, however, all existing licenses are to remain valid untilconverted to new licenses in accordance with the new licensing regime and regulations made underthe Telecommunications Act are also to remain in force until new regulations required are made tofully implement the provisions of the Electronic Communications Act. The bill, renamed the ElectronicCommunications Bill, was passed by the Parliament of South Africa in December 2005 and signed bythe President of South Africa on April 18, 2006. The Electronic Communications Act, No. 36 of 2005,came into effect on July 19, 2006. We expect that the new licensing framework included in theElectronic Communications Act will result in the market becom ing more horizontally integrated with anumber of separate licenses being issued for electronic communications network services, electroniccommunications services, broadcasting services and the radio frequency spectrum and willsubstantially increase competition in our fixed-line business. In addition, the process of converting ourlicenses to the new licensing framework may be lengthy and complex and could result in theimposition of additional obligations and limitations in connection with the converted licenses, whichcould disrupt our business operations and decrease our net profit. We expect that the introduction of number portability and carrier pre-selection could further enhance competition and increase our churn rates. As competition intensifies, the main challenges ourfixed-line business faces are continuing to improve customer loyalty through improved services andmaintaining our leadership in the South African communications market. As a result of increasingcompetition, we anticipate a reduction in overall average tariffs and market share and an increase incosts in our fixed-line business, which could cause our growth rates, operating revenue and net profitto decline. Competition from the three existing mobile communications network operators in South Africahas resulted in significant customer migration and call substitution from fixed-line to mobileservices. If this customer migration and call substitution continues, our growth rates,operating revenue and net profit could decline. Telkom competes for telephone customers with the three existing mobile communications network operators, Vodacom, Mobile Telephone Network Holdings (Pty) Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary ofthe MTN Group Limited, or MTN, a public company listed on the JSE Limited, or JSE, and Cell C (Pty)Limited, or Cell C, which recently announced that it would be entering into a joint venture with VirginMobile. Telkom also competes with service providers who use least cost routing technology thatenables fixed-to-mobile calls from corporate private branch exchanges to bypass our fixed-linenetwork by being transferred directly to mobile networks. Following the launch of Vodacom’s andMTN’s 3G networks, Vodacom and MTN customers are also now able to browse the internet on ahigh speed platform, which provides increased competition for our data services. Telkom hasexperienced significant customer migration in recent years from fixed-line services to mobile services,as well as substitution of ca lls placed using mobile services rather than our fixed-line service, with theincrease in mobile penetration in South Africa. If this migration continues, our growth rates, operatingrevenue and net profit could decline. The rapid growth in the mobile market in South Africa has resulted in a significant increase inthe number of Vodacom and Telkom calls terminating on mobile networks as opposed to ourfixed-line network. Vodacom’s and Telkom’s margins and net profit could decline if this trendcontinues. Vodacom and Telkom have experienced a significant change in the traffic mix as mobile customers have increased relative to fixed-line customers. This resulted in an increasing percentageof calls from Vodacom’s network terminating on other mobile networks rather than our fixed-line 25 network. Vodacom’s interconnection payments have increased and its margins have decreasedbecause the cost of terminating calls on other mobile networks is higher than the cost of terminatingcalls on Telkom’s fixed-line network. As a result, Vodacom’s South African net interconnect revenuehas been declining in recent years. Similarly, Telkom has incurred increased payments to otheroperators as a result of the growth in interconnection traffic for fixed-line calls terminating on mobile networks. If mobile customers continue to increase and there is little or no growth in fixed-line customers, this trend could continue and Vodacom’s and Telkom’s margins and net profit could decline. Increased competition in the mobile communications markets in South Africa and otherAfrican countries may result in a reduction of Vodacom’s average tariffs and Vodacom’smarket share and increased customer acquisition and retention costs, which could causeVodacom’s growth rates, revenue and net profit to decline and its churn rates to increase. Vodacom faces intense competition in the mobile communications markets in South Africa and other African countries. At March 31, 2006, Vodacom estimates that it held approximately 58%, MTN held approximately 33% and Cell C held approximately 9% of the South African mobilecommunications market, based on total estimated customers. Increasing competition, together withthe further liberalization of the South African telecommunications industry, may result in a reduction in Vodacom’s overall average tariffs, loss of market share and increased customer acquisition andretention costs, which could cause Vodacom’s growth rates, revenue and net profit to decline. In addition, the expected implementation of mobile number portability in the 2007 financial year andthe commencement of the Electronic Communications Act could further increase competition andcause Vodacom’s churn rates to increase. The value of Vodacom’s investments outside of South Africa and its revenue and net profitmay decline as a result of political, economic, regulatory and legal developments in thecountries where Vodacom has invested. Vodacom currently has investments in mobile communications network operators in Lesotho, Tanzania, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Mozambique. These countries have political,economic, regulatory and legal systems that are still in the process of transformation and are lessdeveloped than those in the Republic of South Africa. Political or economic upheaval or changes inlaws and regulations or in their application may harm the operations of the companies in whichVodacom invests and impact the value of these investments. The regulatory environments in thesecountries often lack clarity in a number of areas and are subject to varying interpretations. In addition,many of these countries suffer from extreme poverty, civil strife, political conflict and politicalmismanagement, all of which could cause the value of Vodacom’s investments in these countries andVodacom’s revenue and net profit to decline. In particular, the first democratic elections in theDemocratic Repub lic of the Congo took place on July 30, 2006, the outcome of which could determinewhether there will be future political stability and economic growth. Most of the fixed-line operators in these countries are state controlled. As a result, the mobile communications network operators in which Vodacom has invested may encounter difficulties innegotiating commercially acceptable interconnection agreements and collecting amounts due underinterconnection agreements as Vodacom has experienced in the Democratic Republic of the Congoand is experiencing in Tanzania. In addition, Vodacom’s other African operations have local minorityshareholders and accordingly, Vodacom is subject to risks in its dealings with local shareholders thattheir interests may not always be aligned with those of Vodacom. In addition, a number of jurisdictionsin which Vodacom invests have imposed price controls, particularly for interconnection, which couldreduce Vodacom’s net profit and cause the value of Vodacom’s investments in these other Africancountries to decline. There are also foreign exchange control restrictions in South Africa, which mayrestrict Vodacom’s ability to fund its investments in these countries, and there are foreign exchangecontrols in a majority of these countries, which may restrict Vodacom’s ability to extract value fromthese investments. 26 The number of available mobile operators and mobile licenses and other acquisition andinvestment opportunities for our fixed-line business in other African countries and elsewhereis limited. Moreover, the acquisition of mobile operators and licenses and the consummationof other acquisitions and investments may be unsuccessful, which could have a materialadverse effect on Vodacom’s and Telkom’s future growth. Vodacom is seeking future growth opportunities from acquisitions of mobile operators or licenses in other sub-Saharan African countries. In addition, Telkom is pursuing other acquisitions andinvestments in countries throughout the African continent and elsewhere. There are significant risksassociated with Vodacom’s and Telkom’s ability to identify and successfully acquire mobile operatorsand licenses or make other acquisitions and investments. There are a limited number of availablemobile operators and licenses and acquisition and investment opportunities and there is substantialcompetition for the types of mobile operators and licenses Vodacom targets and acquisition andinvestment opportunities that would meet the criteria of Telkom and the shareholders of Vodacom. As described in the previous risk factor, many countries in Africa have political, economic, regulatoryand legal systems that are still in the process of transformation and are less developed than those inthe Republ ic of South Africa and many of these countries suffer from extreme poverty, civil strife,political conflict and political mismanagement and are subject to less developed corporategovernance, business practices and more bureaucratic and regulatory delays. In addition, South African foreign exchange control limitations could delay or prevent investments by Vodacom and Telkom in other countries. There are also a limited number of partners that are able to arrangetheir own funding to invest in ventures in other African countries with Telkom and Vodacom andTelkom does not have prior experience investing outside of South Africa. To the extent that Vodacomand Telkom are not able to grow through other acquisitions and investments, our stock price coulddecline. Moreover, Vodacom and Telkom could expend a substantial amount of time and capitalpursuing acquisitions they do not consummate, which could adversely affect their business, financialcondition, results of operations and g rowth. The expansion of Vodacom’s and Telkom’s operations may place a significant strain on their management, financial and other resources. Their ability to manage future growth through acquisitionsand investments will depend upon their ability to monitor operations, maintain effective quality,corporate governance and financial controls and significantly expand their internal management,technical and accounting systems, all of which will result in higher operating expenses. The integration of acquired mobile operators or licenses and other businesses and investments mayinvolve, among other things, integration of switching, transmission, technical, sales, marketing, billing,accounting, quality control, management, personnel, payroll, regulatory compliance and other systemsand operating hardware and software, some of which may be incompatible with their existing systemsand therefore may need to be replaced. In addition, telecommunications operators generallyexperience higher customer and emp loyee turnover rates during and after an acquisition or launch ofservice. We cannot assure that Vodacom and Telkom will be able to integrate successfully the mobileoperators, mobile licenses or other operations they may acquire. If we lose key personnel or if we are unable to hire and retain highly qualified employees, ourbusiness operations could be disrupted and could impact on our ability to competesuccessfully. Our success, including the success of Vodacom, depends in large part on our ability to hire and retain highly qualified employees who possess the requisite qualifications and technical skills. Telkom and Vodacom do not have long term employment agreements with a majority of their seniormanagement, any of whom may terminate their employment. The loss of key personnel could disruptour business operations if we are unable to replace them with similarly qualified individuals. Weexpect that competition for employees in the South African communications industry will increase asnew competitors enter the market, including SNO-T. If we lose a number of our key employees to ourcompetitors or are not able to continue to attract and retain highly qualified employees, our businessoperations could be disrupted and our ability to compete could be harmed. 27 We do not have the right to appoint the majority of Vodacom’s directors or members of itsdirecting committee and the Vodacom joint venture agreement contains approval rights thatmay limit our flexibility and ability to implement our preferred strategies. Although we are a 50% shareholder in Vodacom, Vodafone Group Plc, or Vodafone, beneficially owns the remaining 50% interest in Vodacom. As a result, our flexibility and ability to implement ourpreferred strategies may be limited by the fact that we do not have the right to appoint the majority ofVodacom’s directors or members of its directing committee. In addition, under our memorandum andarticles of association, the Government is entitled to nominate the directors we appoint to theVodacom board. The Vodacom joint venture agreement, which governs the relationship betweenTelkom and Vodafone, requires each of Vodacom’s shareholders who own 10% or more of Vodacom’sshares, which are currently Telkom and Vodafone, to approve certain material transactions. As a resultof these factors, we may not be able to impose strategies on Vodacom that we believe to be beneficialto us without the approval of Vodafone. If Vodacom does not continue to pay dividends or make other distributions to Telkom,Telkom may not be able to pay dividends and service its debt and could be required to lower or defer capital expenditures, dividends and debt reduction, which could cause the trading prices of Telkom’s ordinary shares and ADSs to decline. Telkom receives dividends from Vodacom which Telkom uses to fund a portion of its capital and operating expenditures and service its debt and other financial obligations. Vodacom is legally distinctfrom Telkom and has no obligation to pay dividends or make other distributions to Telkom. Vodacom’sability to pay dividends and make other distributions to Telkom may be restricted by, among otherthings, its operations and the availability of funds and the terms of credit and debt arrangementsentered into by it, as well as statutory and other legal restrictions. In addition, Vodacom’s ability to paydividends or make distributions to Telkom and its other shareholder requires the approval ofVodacom’s shareholders who own 10% or more of Vodacom’s shares, which are currently Telkom andVodafone. To the extent that Vodacom is unable to, or otherwise does not, pay dividends or makeother distributions to Telkom in the future, Telkom may not be able to pay dividends and service its debt and could be required to lower or defer capital expenditures, dividends and debt reduction, whichcould cause the trading prices of Telkom’s ordinary shares and ADSs to decline. If we are not able to continue to improve and maintain our management information and othersystems, our ability to provide accurate and comprehensive operating information and tocompete may be harmed. Our management information systems do not provide management with certain operating data and financial information on a real-time basis that at times has made our budgeting and planningprocesses difficult. In addition, our customer and other management information systems and productcatalogue are not yet fully integrated and therefore are not capable of providing us withcomprehensive and detailed operating information, and we are not able to provide a single bill forcustomers with multiple locations and products or configure products and services across voice anddata domains. To address these problems, we are in the process of developing and implementing aunified customer management system capable of generating a single view of the customer. The fullintegration between our various operational support systems is not expected to be complete until the2008 financial year. Since November 2003, we have renewed our focus on information riskmanagement and have identified several requiremen ts for improved security of Telkom’s informationtechnology systems. Completion and compliance verification is expected during the 2007 financialyear. To the extent we are not able to improve our systems and fully address these vulnerabilities, ourability to provide accurate and comprehensive operating information and to compete effectively in the 28 increasingly liberalized South African communications market may be harmed. In addition, some ofthe information systems in Vodacom’s other African operations are new and are not capable ofproviding management on a real-time basis with operating data and financial information. We have negative working capital, which may impair our operating and financial flexibility andrequire us to defer capital expenditures and we may not be able to pay dividends and ouroperations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We had negative consolidated working capital of approximately R3.0 billion as of March 31, 2006, compared to negative consolidated working capital of approximately R2.3 billion as of March 31, 2005and approximately R3.2 billion as of March 31, 2004. Negative working capital arises when currentliabilities are greater than current assets. We intend to fund current liabilities through a combination ofoperating cash flows, new borrowings and borrowings available under existing credit facilities. We hadR9.5 billion available under existing credit facilities as of March 31, 2006. If we are unable to generatesufficient operating cash flows or borrowings to fund our current liabilities, our operating and financialflexibility could be impaired and we may be required to defer capital expenditures and may not beable to pay dividends and our business operations and financial condition could be negativelyimpacted. Continuing rapid changes in technologies could increase competition or require us to makesubstantial additional investments in technologies, which could reduce our return oninvestment and net profit. The services we offer are technology intensive. The development of new technologies, such as fixed wireless services and packet radio services, could increase competition and make ourtechnology obsolete. We may have to make substantial additional investments in new technologies to remain competitive. New technologies we choose may prove not to be commercially successful. As a result, we could lose customers, fail to attract new customers or incur substantial costs in orderto maintain our customer bases, which could reduce our return on investments and net profit. Delays in the development and supply of communications equipment may hinder thedeployment of new technologies and services and cause our growth rates and net profit todecline. Our operations, including the operations of Vodacom, depend in part upon the successful and timely supply of evolving fixed and mobile communications technologies. We use technologies from anumber of suppliers and make significant capital investments in connection with communicationstechnologies. If technologies are not developed or delivered by our suppliers on time or do notperform according to expectations or achieve commercial acceptance, we may be required to delayservice introductions and make additional capital expenditures and we could be required to write-offinvestments in technology, which could cause our growth rates and net profit to decline. If we continue to experience high rates of theft, vandalism, network fraud, payphone fraud andlost revenue due to non-licensed operators in our fixed-line business, our fixed-line fault ratescould increase and our operating revenue and net profit could decline. We have historically experienced significant cable theft, theft of solar panels and wireless communications equipment, vandalism of payphones, network fraud, such as non-licensed calls, andpayphone fraud in our fixed-line business. Theft and vandalism have caused our fixed-line fault ratesto increase and the repair time on our network and the network downtime associated with such faultsand network fraud and payphone fraud have resulted in lost operating revenue and significant costs.We have also lost operating revenue to non-licensed operators providing telecommunications services 29 in South Africa. If we are unable to continue to minimize theft, vandalism, network fraud and payphonefraud or if we continue to lose operating revenue to non-licensed operators in our fixed-line business,our fixed-line fault rates could increase and our operating revenue and net profit could decline. We need to improve our internal control over financial reporting and our independent auditorsmay not be able to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting,which could have a significant adverse effect on our business operations, reputation and netprofit. We are in the process of making improvements to our internal control over financial reporting in order to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, our internal controlover financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and therules and regulations of the SEC thereunder, which we refer to as Section 404. The managementcertification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 will initially apply to Telkom for itsannual report on Form 20-F for the year ended March 31, 2007. In addition, as discussed in Item 15.“Controls and Procedures,” Telkom has identified errors in its consolidated financial statements anddetermined that it was necessary to restate its previously issued consolidated financial statementsand its auditors, Ernst & Young, have notified Telkom that they had identified two significantdeficiencies under standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board andVodacom ’s auditors, Deloitte & Touche, have advised that they have identified two significantdeficiencies at Vodacom that were reported to Telkom’s and Vodocom’s audit committees. We mayidentify other conditions that may result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in thefuture, which could impact our ability to comply with Section 404 in a timely manner. If we are not ableto implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, ourindependent auditors may not be able to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control overfinancial reporting and we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, suchas the SEC. In addition, we may be required to incur costs in improving our internal control system.Any such action could negatively affect our results and have a significant adverse effect on ourbusiness operations, reputation and net profit. Actual or perceived health risks relating to mobile handsets, base stations and associatedequipment and any related publicity or litigation could make it difficult to find attractive sitesfor base stations and reduce Vodacom’s growth rates, customer base, average usage percustomer and net profit. Concern has been expressed that the electromagnetic signals from mobile handsets, base stations and associated equipment may pose health risks. Actual or perceived risks of mobilehandsets or base stations and related publicity or litigation, could make it difficult to find attractivesites for base stations and reduce Vodacom’s growth rates, customer base, average usage percustomer and net profit. Risks Related to Telkom’s Ownership by the Government of South Africa and MajorShareholders Telkom’s major shareholders are entitled to appoint the majority of Telkom’s directors andexercise control over Telkom’s strategic direction and major corporate actions. The Government of the Republic of South Africa owned 38.0% of Telkom’s issued and 39.8% of Telkom’s outstanding ordinary shares plus the class A ordinary share as of June 30, 2006. Through its ownership and voting arrangements provided for in Telkom’s articles of association, theGovernment is entitled to appoint five of Telkom’s directors, and is able to exert considerable influenceover Telkom’s corporate governance, strategic direction and major corporate actions and to appointdirectors of Telkom’s subsidiaries and the Vodacom joint venture. In addition, as of June 30, 2006, thePublic Investment Corporation, an investment management company wholly owned by the SouthAfrican Government, held 16.1% of Telkom’s issued and 16.9% of Telkom’s outstanding ordinary 30 shares, which includes 7.5% of Telkom’s issued and 7.9% of Telkom’s outstanding shares acquired inthe market, and, through its ownership of Telkom’s class B ordinary share, is entitled to appoint one ofTelkom’s directors. Telkom’s articles of association require Telkom to obtain written consent from the Government before taking actions that would limit Telkom’s ability to provide public switched telecommunicationservices. Telkom’s articles of association also require the approval of directors appointed by theGovernment in order for Telkom or any of its subsidiaries, including Vodacom, to enter into majorcorporate actions and transactions, including amendments to Telkom’s management structure and the powers of Telkom’s operating committee (which was terminated by the Telkom board at whichtime certain powers were delegated to the chief executive officer assisted by an executive committee),the approval of Telkom’s dividend policy and payment of dividends, increases in Telkom’sindebtedness beyond certain limits and changes of control. As a result, without the approval andparticipation of the Government, Telkom is not able to consummate transactions involving an actual orpo tential change of control, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium foryour ordinary shares or ADSs over market prices. Because the Government exercises control overTelkom, holders of ordinary shares and ADSs lack meaningful power to approve decisions of Telkom’sboard of directors or to influence our strategic direction and major corporate actions. The Government of the Republic of South Africa may use its position as shareholder ofTelkom and policymaker for, and customer of, the telecommunications industry in a mannerthat may be favorable to our competitors and unfavorable to us. The Government of the Republic of South Africa owned 38.0% of Telkom’s issued and 39.8% of Telkom’s outstanding ordinary shares as of June 30, 2006. The Government also holds significantequity stakes in other industry participants, including Sentech, and has an indirect 30% equity interestin SNO-T. To further its policy of liberalization of the telecommunications industry, the Governmentmay adopt and implement policies and exercise its right to approve regulations that benefit ourcompetitors but are not beneficial to us. In addition, to further other political or social objectives, theGovernment may be required to act in a manner that may be detrimental to our business butadvantageous to our competitors. The Government of the Republic of South Africa is also one of our customers. We estimate that Government customers, excluding certain Government owned parastatal companies, accounted for atleast 9% of our total fixed-line operating revenue, excluding directory services and other revenue, inthe year ended March 31, 2006. The Government could transfer some or all of its business to SNO-Tor other operators when they commence operations. Legislation has been enacted to centralize allprocurement of telecommunications and information technology services by the Government, throughone agency. If the Government transfers some or all of its business to other operators, our operatingrevenue and net profit could decline. Risks Related to Regulatory and Legal Matters The regulatory environment for the telecommunications industry in South Africa is evolvingand regulations addressing a number of significant matters have not yet been made.The interpretation of existing regulations, the adoption of new policies or regulations that are unfavorable to us, or the imposition of additional license obligations on us, coulddisrupt our business operations and could cause our net profit and the trading prices ofTelkom’s ordinary shares and ADSs to decline. The licensing and provision of telecommunications services in the Republic of South Africa is subject to the Telecommunications Act and the extensive regulations made under theTelecommunications Act. The Telecommunication Act was repealed by the Electronic CommunicationsAct when the Electronic Communications Act came into effect on July 19, 2006. While a new licensing 31 regime was created by the Electronic Communications Act, all existing licenses are to remain validuntil converted to new licenses in accordance with the new licensing regime. Regulations made underthe Telecommunications Act are also to remain in force until new regulations required are made tofully implement the provisions of the Electronic Communications Act. As a result, the regulatoryenvironment is evolving, lacks clarity in a number of areas and is subject to interpretation, review andamendment as the telecommunications industry is further developed and liberalized. In addition, theregulatory process entails a public comment process, which, in light of the politicized issue ofprivatization of industries such as telecommunications in South Africa, makes the outcome of theregulations uncertain and may cause delays in the regulatory process. A number of significant mat tershave not been addressed or clarified, including: • the process of converting our licenses to the new legal framework provided by the Electronic Communications Act and the extent of additional obligations that may be imposed on ourconverted licenses as a result of proposals by ICASA to reintroduce quality of serviceobligations that lapsed in 2002; • whether and the extent to which our licenses may be amended as a result of the licensing of SNO-T and whether any additional obligations may be imposed on us at that time or thereafter; • the extent to which our fixed-line business will be required to make its facilities or access lines available to SNO-T or other competitors to provide services, other than public switchedtelecommunications services, on a resale basis; • the extent to which our fixed-line business may be required to unbundle its local loop; • the legal and regulatory framework that will ultimately be established to implement the provisions of the Electronic Communications Act; and • the additional obligations that may be imposed on us in terms of the Electronic Communications Act if we are found to be dominant in a market in which we operate. A bill amending the ICASA Act, No.13 of 2000, was passed by the Parliament of South Africa in December 2005 and signed by the President of South Africa and came into effect on July 19, 2006.The amendment to the ICASA Act redefines and expands the powers of ICASA to control, inconjunction with the Electronic Communications Act, the communications market. The main provisionsof the ICASA Act amendments are the removal of the power of the Minister to approve regulationsmade by ICASA, increased power of ICASA to conduct enquiries and to enforce its rulings and theestablishment of a Complaints and Compliance Committee to assist ICASA in hearings and makingfindings on complaints and allegations of non-compliance with the Electronic Communications Act. It has been reported that ICASA may currently lack adequate resources to effectively fulfill its regulatory and licensing functions and to deal with regulatory challenges that continue to changegiven the rapidly evolving telecommunications environment. ICASA’s capacity may be further strainedby the workload that will be imposed on it by the Electronic Communications Act. This combination offactors creates further uncertainties in the regulatory arena and the ability of ICASA to effectively fulfillits functions. In addition, while we believe our relationship with ICASA has improved in recent years,we had disagreements with, and cases against, ICASA in the past. We cannot predict the outcome ortiming of any amendments to applicable regulations or the interpretation thereof, the release of newregulations or their impact on us. However, changes in the regulation of telecommunications servicesin South Africa, the imposition of unfavorable terms in our licenses or the loss or unfavorableam endment of any license could disrupt our business operations and could cause our net profit andthe trading prices of Telkom’s ordinary shares and ADSs to decline. 32 In addition, new laws and regulations that may require our business customers to make use of suppliers complying with black economic empowerment requirements may affect us. If Telkom is notable to meet the minimum requirements of these black economic empowerment initiatives orrestrictions, some of our business customers may be required or elect to obtain all or some of theirtelecommunications services from our competitors who may fulfill such requirements. Our tariffs are subject to approval by the regulatory authorities, which may limit our flexibilityin pricing and could reduce our revenues and net profit. Vodacom’s revenue and net profitcould also decline if wholesale price controls are imposed on it. Regulations made under the Telecommunications Act impose a price cap on a basket of Telkom’s services and a sub-basket of those services provided to residential customers, including leased linesup to and including lines of 2 Mbps of capacity and the rental and installation of business exchangelines. Approximately 80% of Telkom’s operating revenue in the year ended March 31, 2005 wasincluded in this basket, compared to approximately 66% of Telkom’s operating revenue in the yearended March 31, 2006. The reason for the decrease was due to a change in methodology of theamount included in the basket for purposes of our filing with ICASA in the 2006 financial year toexclude the mobile termination fees for fixed-to-mobile calls. Our tariffs for these services are filedwith ICASA for approval. Revenue generated from services for which we had exclusivity may not beused to subsidize competitive services. Effective from August 1, 2005 through July 31, 2008, th eannual permitted increase in revenues from both the whole basket and the residential sub-basket waslowered from 1.5% to 3.5% below inflation and ADSL products and services have been added to thebasket. In addition, the price of no individual service within the residential sub-basket can beincreased by more than 5% above inflation except where specific approval has been received fromICASA. Draft regulations have also been published for comment on the pricing and provision of ADSLservices, which would, among other things, prohibit Telkom from charging a monthly rental forproviding ADSL service and limit Telkom to charging only an installation fee for such service. Theselimitations on our customer tariffs limit our pricing flexibility and could reduce our net profit.Furthermore, Telkom’s revenue and net profit could decline substantially if the pricing aspects of theregulations are not amended to allow full cost recovery and reasonable profit on the provision of AD SLservices. Similarly, Vodacom’s revenue and net profit could decline if price controls are imposed on it. We are parties to a number of legal and arbitration proceedings, including complaints beforethe South African Competition Commission. If we lose these legal and arbitration proceedings,we could be prohibited from engaging in certain business activities and could be required topay substantial penalties and damages, which could cause our revenue and net profit todecline and have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. We are parties to a number of legal and arbitration proceedings, including complaints filed by the South African Value Added Network Services Association and the South African Internet ServiceProviders Association with the South African Competition Commission, alleging anti-competitivepractices. If we were to lose these legal and arbitration proceedings, we could be required to ceasethese practices, divest these businesses and fined a penalty of up to 10% of Telkom’s annualturnover, excluding the turnover of subsidiaries and joint ventures, for the financial year prior to thedates of the complaints. In addition, Telcordia Technologies Incorporated, a New Jersey corporation,instituted arbitration proceedings against Telkom in March 2001 seeking to recover approximately$130 million for monies outstanding and damages, plus costs and interest at a rate of 15.5% per year,relating to the supply of a customer assurance and activation system by Telcordia. As competitioncontinues to increase, w e expect that we will become involved in an increasing number of disputesregarding the legality of services and products provided by us and third parties. These disputes mayrange from court lawsuits to complaints lodged by or against us with various regulatory bodies suchas the complaint launched by ORION against Telkom with the South African competition authorities 33 relating to certain discount plans that Telkom offers. See “Item 8. Financial Information–LegalProceedings.” We are not currently able to predict when these disputes may be resolved or theamount that we may eventually be required to pay, however, we have not included provisions for anyof these claims in our financial statements. In addition, we may need to spend substantial amountsdefending or prosecuting these claims even if we are ultimately successful. If we were to lose these orfuture legal and arbitration proceedings, we could be prohibited from engaging in certain businessactivities and could be required to pay substantial penalties and damages, which could cause ourrevenue and net profit to decline and have a material adverse impact on our business and financialcondition. We may be required to fund any penalties or damages from cash flows or drawings on ourcredit facili ties, which could cause our indebtedness to increase. If we are unable to negotiate favorable terms, rates and conditions for the provision ofinterconnection services and facilities leasing services, our business operations could bedisrupted and our net profit could decline. Telkom is required to provide interconnection services to the mobile operators, SNO-T and all other entities that lawfully provide telecommunications services in South Africa and to lease orotherwise make its telecommunications facilities available to any entity lawfully providing or utilizingtelecommunications services in South Africa. Telkom will also be required to allow SNO-T to use all ofits telecommunications facilities for the provision of public switched telecommunications services on aresale basis and to provide shared access to the local loop for the first two years of its license. Telkommay also be required to lease or otherwise make its telecommunications facilities available to SNO-Tbeyond the first two years. The Electronic Communications Act provides that ICASA may prescribe aframework for the unbundling of Telkom’s local loop. The Minister of Communications has announcedthat she planned to issue policy directives with respect to the time period for the unbundling of Te lkom’slocal loop and the sharing of access to Telkom’s undersea cables and has formed a committee toevaluate the unbundling of Telkom’s local loop. The terms and conditions for the provision of theseservices and facilities are, or will be, set out in interconnection agreements and facilities leasingagreements negotiated and agreed to by Telkom with these other entities. ICASA is entitled to issue, and has issued, regulations relating to interconnection and facilities leasing. Telkom has been declared a Major Operator, and consequently is required to provideEssential Services and Essential Facilities at the Long Run Incremental Cost, or LRIC, of theseservices, including a reasonable allocation of common costs and cost of capital, to Public Operators,such as MTN, Vodacom, Cell C, Sentech, USALs and SNO-T. None of these operators have beendeclared to be Major Operators to date. However, in May 2005 ICASA initiated an enquiry intowhether MTN and Vodacom should be declared Major Operators. If any of them is found to be aMajor Operator, they would be required, like Telkom, to provide interconnection and facilities leasingservices at cost based prices to other operators. New draft interconnection and facilities leasingregulations have been proposed by ICASA and published for comment that would extend the right tocost based prices to all licensees. To the extent th at a Major Operator, such as Telkom, is unable toreach agreement with these entities for the provision of these services, including the applicable tariffs,or to the extent that the terms and conditions of a Major Operator’s agreements are found to beinconsistent with the relevant legislation or regulations, such terms and conditions may be determinedand imposed on the Major Operator by ICASA. The Electronic Communications Act replaced theconcept of Major Operator status with that of significant market power in a market segment andempowers ICASA to impose pro-competitive conditions on operators found to have significant marketpower, which may affect the manner in which facilities are leased and interconnection is to beprovided by such operators, and the charges thereof. If we are unable to negotiate favorable termsand conditions for the provision of the services and facilities covered by the guidelines or ICASA findsVodacom to be a Major Operator or Telkom or Voda com to have significant market power or otherwiseimposes terms and conditions that are unfavorable to us, our business operations could be disruptedand our net profit could decline. 34 If we are unable to recover the substantial capital and operational costs associated with theimplementation of carrier pre-selection and number portability or are unable to implementthese requirements in a timely manner, our business operations could be disrupted and ournet profit could decline. The implementation of carrier pre-selection and number portabilitywill also likely further increase competition and cause our churn rates to increase. The Telecommunications Act mandated that fixed-line operators were required to implement carrier pre-selection, which will enable customers to choose and vary their fixed-linetelecommunications carrier for long distance and international calls. Call-by-call carrier pre-selectionmust be implemented and must be provided by an operator within two months of it being requested byanother operator and fully automatic pre-selection must be implemented and must be provided by anoperator within ten months of it being requested by another operator. Telkom will not be able to fullyimplement carrier pre-selection until the SNO-T’s interconnection systems and the inter-operatorprocess and systems to support carrier pre-selection become available, however, Telkom does notbelieve that it will be able to implement automatic carrier pre selection within ten months of it beingrequested. The Telecommunications Act also mandated that number portability to enable customers toretain their fixed-lin e and mobile telephone numbers if they switch between fixed-line operators orbetween mobile operators be introduced. It is currently expected that Telkom will be required toprovide “block” number portability in the 2006 calendar year and individual number portability later, but within 12 months from being requested by an operator. The full set of regulations for theimplementation of fixed number portability, however, have not yet been published. Telkom hasreceived a request from SNO-T to implement both “block” and individual number portability anddiscussions on the implementation of the required inter operator systems are under way. Telkom willnot be able to determine the time required to implement number portability until the functionalspecification regulations are published. On September 30, 2005, ICASA published the numberportability regulations and functional specifications for mobile number portability which requires thatmobile number porta bility must be implemented by June 30, 2006. ICASA and the cellular operatorshave been in consultation over the last ten months to agree to the functional and technicalspecifications to ensure compliance with the Telecommunications Act. As a result, mobile numberportability is expected to be implemented in the 2007 financial year. We will incur substantial set-upand maintenance costs in connection with the implementation of these requirements, which coulddisrupt our business operations. The extent of recoverability of these costs have not yet beendetermined and finalized by ICASA. We may not be able to implement these requirements in a timelymanner, which could result in our business being disrupted and cause our net profit to decline. Inaddition, the implementation of these requirements will likely further increase competition and causeour churn rates to increase. The implementation of the Regulation of Interception of Communications and Provisions ofCommunication-Related Information Act, or RICA, could be costly and may negatively impact theability of Telkom and Vodacom to register customers and may require them to disconnect existingcustomers, causing their penetration rates, growth rates, revenue and net profit to decline. RICA is a South African law that regulates the authorization for and actual lawful interception of communications. The Act came into effect on September 30, 2005, with the exception of certainsections requiring the collection of customer details and identity verification prior to providing mobilecellular telecommunications services. The compliance date for these sections has not beendetermined and will come into effect by presidential proclamation. RICA obligates service providers toobtain and store customer details, including names, identity numbers, residential and business orpostal addresses and requires verification of customers’ details with reference to a certified copy of acustomer’s identity document and his or her actual identity document. Telkom has not completed theimplementation of all of these requirements and Vodacom may not be able to implement theserequirements by the time period, which has not yet been determined, in which it is required to implement them. Furthermore, the implementation of RICA is expected to require significant costs resulting from its paper verification and storage requirements and negatively impact the ability of Telkom and Vodacom to register customers 35 due to its burdensome registration process, which may not be practical and may require thedisconnection of customers for whom such information is unavailable. As a result, Telkom’s andVodacom’s business operations could be disrupted and their net profit could decline and they may beliable for penalties to the extent they are not able to comply with RICA’s requirements. In addition, commencing in June 2006, all licensees, including Telkom and Vodacom, were required to install equipment and implement procedures to allow lawful interception by lawenforcement agencies in South Africa, including the interception of communications and theprovisioning of call-related (billing) information. Telkom was not able to comply with all of these requirements by June 2006, and is in consultation with the Office for Interception Centres and the Department of Communication to adopt a phased approach for compliance in the first quarter of the 2007 calendar year. To the extent that we are unable to comply with all the requirements of RICA or are unable to substantially recover these costs of compliance, our business operations could be disrupted and our net profit could decline and we may be liable for penalties. If Telkom is required to comply with the provisions of the South African Public FinanceManagement Act, 1 of 1999, or PFMA, and the provisions of the South African Public Audit Actof 2004, or PAA, Telkom could incur increased expenses and its net profit could decline andcompliance with the PFMA and PAA could result in the delisting of Telkom’s ordinary sharesand ADSs from the JSE and New York Stock Exchange. Telkom is required to comply with the provisions of the PFMA and PAA. Telkom applied for and obtained a temporary exemption from many of the provisions of the PFMA until November 2007 andhas been informed by the South African Auditor-General that it will not be required to comply with thePAA until such date. If Telkom does not obtain a further exemption from the PFMA or if it is required tocomply with the PAA or its existing exemption from the PFMA is revoked for any reason or it isotherwise required to comply with the PFMA or PAA, Telkom may be compelled to prepare financialstatements in accordance with accounting principles and practices prescribed by the Government ofthe Republic of South Africa which may not correlate with IFRS or US GAAP and would requireTelkom to incur additional costs. Telkom would also be required to comply with, what it believes to be,extremely prescriptive treasury regulations issued pursuant to the PFMA and PAA, to provide theGovernment with advance access t o proprietary and potentially price sensitive information and to seekthe prior approval of South African governmental authorities to enter into certain material agreements,to maintain certain bank accounts, to formulate and implement certain investment strategies or todischarge its auditors, which would preclude Telkom from acting in the same manner as itscompetitors and other listed companies. If Telkom is required to comply with the PFMA and PAA,Telkom may not be able to comply with the Listings Requirements of the JSE or the listing rules of theNYSE and Telkom’s ordinary shares and ADSs could be delisted. Our total property tax expense could increase significantly and our net profit could decline as a result of the enactment of the South African Municipal Property Rates Act, 6 of 2004. On May 11, 2004, the South African Municipal Property Rates Act, 6 of 2004, was enacted. Pursuant to this new Act, municipalities are required to levy property tax in accordance with a ratespolicy that must be adopted and regularly reviewed by municipalities with community participationfacilitated through the municipalities annual budget process. Due in part to the fact that no rate has to date been prescribed, it is too early to assess exactly how the new Act would affect us. As asubstantial landowner in South Africa, our total property tax expense could increase significantly andour net profit could decline as a result of the implementation of this Act. Risks Related to the Republic of South Africa Fluctuations in the value of the Rand and inflation rates in South Africa could have asignificant impact on the amount of Telkom’s dividends, the trading prices of Telkom’sordinary shares and ADSs, our operating revenue, operating expenses, net profit, capitalexpenditures and on the comparability of our results between financial periods. 36 The value of the Rand as measured against the Dollar has historically fluctuated significantly. The value of the Rand as measured against the Dollar has increased from R11.38 per $1.00 as ofMarch 29, 2002 to R7.90 per $1.00 as of March 31, 2003 and R6.32 per $1.00 as of March 31, 2004.The value of the Rand as measured against the Dollar was R6.22 per $1.00 as of March 31, 2005and R6.15 per $1.00 as of March 31, 2006. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Rand and the Dollar could have an adverse impact on: • the Dollar equivalent of any dividends and distributions on Telkom’s ordinary shares and ADSs payable in Rands; • the Dollar equivalent of the Rand denominated prices of Telkom’s ordinary shares; and • the market value of Telkom’s ADSs in the United States. These fluctuations could also impact the amount in Rand terms of our non-Rand denominated debt, impact our non-Rand denominated financing costs and operating and capital expenditures andcause our net profit to fluctuate. In addition, the volatility of the Rand as measured against the Dollarand the Euro resulted in net foreign exchange losses of R9 million and R776 million in the yearsended March 31, 2005 and March 31, 2004, respectively, and a profit of R113 million in the yearended March 31, 2006, in terms of IAS39. In addition, fluctuations in currency exchange ratesbetween the South African Rand and the currencies in African countries where Vodacom hasinvestments could decrease the value of these businesses and Vodacom’s and our net profit. SeeItem 5. “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects–Operating Results–Principal Factors thataffect our Results of Operations Volatility of the Rand.” The levels of unemployment, poverty and crime in South Africa may cause the size of theSouth African communications market and our growth rates, operating revenue and net profit,as well as the trading prices of Telkom’s ordinary shares and ADSs, to decline. While South Africa features a highly developed financial and legal infrastructure at the core of its economy, levels of unemployment, poverty and crime exist. These issues may hinder investment intoSouth Africa, prompt emigration of skilled workers and may have an impact on economic growth.Although it is difficult to predict the effect of these issues on South African businesses or theGovernment of the Republic of South Africa, they may cause the size of the communications marketand our growth rates, operating revenue and net profit, as well as the trading prices of Telkom’sordinary shares and ADSs, to decline. The high rates of HIV infection in South Africa could cause the size of the South Africancommunications market and our growth rates, operating revenue and net profit to decline. South Africa has a high rate of HIV infection. The exact impact of increased mortality rates due to AIDS deaths on the cost of doing business in South Africa and the potential growth in the economy isunclear at this time although employee related costs in South Africa are expected to increase as aresult of the AIDS epidemic and the size of the South African population and the communicationsmarket could decline. Our growth rates, operating revenue and net profit could decline if employeerelated expenses increase or our labor supply or the size of the South African population andcommunications market decline. Significant labor disputes, work stoppages, increased employee expenses as a result ofcollective bargaining and the cost of compliance with South African labor laws could limit ouroperating flexibility and disrupt our fixed-line business operations and reduce our net profit. Trade unions represented approximately 74% of our total Telkom employees and approximately 10% of Vodacom’s employees as of March 31, 2006. Trade unions have resisted workforce reductions 37 and publicly opposed our privatization and have instituted and in the future could institute workstoppages to oppose changes in our shareholding structure or gain leverage in negotiating collectivebargaining agreements. Approximately 23% of Telkom’s employees participated in a work stoppage inMarch 2006 and approximately 31% of Telkom’s employees participated in an additional workstoppage in April 2006 with respect to compensation issues, during which period Telkom receivedincreased reports of sabotage, vandalism and other incidents. In addition, a number of South Africantrade unions, including the trade unions of our employees, have close links to various political partiesand have had a significant influence in South Africa as vehicles for social and political reform and inthe collective bargaining process. Since 1995 South Africa has enacted various labor laws thatenhance the righ ts of employees, which have imposed costs on us and have limited our flexibility andability to implement workforce reductions. If we are unable to implement workforce reductions asnecessary, particularly as a result of increased competition, or experience significant labor disputes,work stoppages, increased employee expenses as a result of collective bargaining or compliance withlabor laws, our fixed-line business operations could be disrupted and our net profit could be reduced. South African exchange control restrictions could hinder our ability to make foreigninvestments and procure foreign denominated financings. South Africa’s exchange control regulations restrict transactions between residents of the Common Monetary Area, which consists of South Africa, the Republic of Namibia, and the Kingdoms of Lesotho and Swaziland, and non-residents of the Common Monetary Area. In particular, South African companies are generally not permitted, without the prior approval of theExchange Control authorities, to export capital from South Africa or to hold foreign currency in excessof certain prescribed limits. These restrictions could hinder our ability to make foreign investments and obtain foreign denominated financing. While the South African Government has relaxed exchange controls in recentyears, it is difficult to predict whether or how it will further relax or abolish exchange control measuresin the future. See Item 10. “Additional Information–Exchange Controls.” Risks Related to Ownership of Telkom’s Ordinary Shares and ADSs The future sale of a substantial number of Telkom’s ordinary shares or ADSs could cause thetrading prices of Telkom’s ordinary shares and ADSs to decline. As of June 30, 2006, Government of the Republic of South Africa owned 38.0% of Telkom’s issued and 39.8% of Telkom’s outstanding ordinary shares, plus the class A ordinary share, the PublicInvestment Corporation owned 16.1% of Telkom’s issued and 16.9% of Telkom’s outstanding ordinaryshares, which includes 7.5% of Telkom’s issued and 7.9% of Telkom’s outstanding shares acquired inthe market, plus the class B ordinary share, and the Elephant Consortium owned 6.9% of Telkom’s issued and 7.2% of Telkom’s outstanding ordinary shares. Telkom has adopted amanagement and employee incentive plan that provides for the issue or grant of up to 22,281,272ordinary shares, of which 4,344,894 have been granted as of March 31, 2006. Sales of substantialamounts of shares by Telkom’s shareholders, or by Telkom, or the appearance that a large number ofshares are available for sale, could cause the trading prices of Telkom’s ordinary shares and ADSs t odecline. Telkom has entered into a registration rights agreement with the Government of the Republicof South Africa. Pursuant to the agreement, the Government has the right to cause Telkom to eithereffect a JSE public offering in South Africa, or register with the Securities and Exchange Commissionall or part of their ordinary shares, or both. 38 Telkom is a public limited liability company incorporated under the laws of the Republic of South Africa. The rights of holders of Telkom’s ordinary shares and therefore many of the rights of Telkom’sADS holders are governed by Telkom’s articles of association and by South African law. These rightsdiffer in material respects from the rights of shareholders in companies incorporated elsewhere, suchas in the United States. In particular, South African law significantly limits the circumstances underwhich shareholders of South African companies may institute litigation on behalf of a company. For a description of the differences between shareholders’ rights under South African law andDelaware law, see Item 10. “Additional Information–Memorandum and Articles ofIncorporation–Comparison of Shareholders’ Rights under South African and Delaware Law.” It may not be possible for you to effect service of legal process, enforce judgments of courtsoutside of South Africa or bring actions based on securities laws of jurisdictions other thanSouth Africa against Telkom or against members of its board. Telkom and all of the members of its board of directors and executive officers are residents of South Africa. In addition, Telkom’s assets and the assets of members of its board of directors andexecutive officers are located in whole or in substantial part in South Africa. As a result, it may not bepossible for you to effect service of legal process within the United States or elsewhere outside of theRepublic of South Africa upon our directors or officers, including with respect to matters arising underUS federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, it may not be possible for youto enforce against Telkom or the members of its board of directors and executive officers judgmentsobtained in courts outside South Africa, including the United States, based on the civil liabilityprovisions of the securities laws of those countries, including those of the United States. A foreignjudgment is not directly enforceable in South Africa, but constitutes a cause of action, wh ich may beenforced by South African courts with the approval of the South African Minister of Trade and Industry.In addition, awards of punitive damages will not be enforceable in South Africa. Although it is possiblefor an investor to bring an action against Telkom in a South African civil court to enforce rights in termsof US federal securities laws, these laws will not be enforced if they are penal or revenue or taxationlaws or laws which are contrary to South African public policy. It is not possible therefore for aninvestor to seek to impose criminal liability on us in a South African court arising from a violation of USfederal securities laws. Your ability to sell a substantial number of ordinary shares and ADSs may be restricted by thelimited liquidity of ordinary shares traded on the JSE. The principal trading market for Telkom’s ordinary shares is the JSE. Historically, trading volumes and liquidity of shares listed on the JSE have been low in comparison with other major markets. Inaddition, as of March 31, 2006, only 2.6% of the 237,123,985 ordinary shares publicly traded wererepresented by ADSs trading on the NYSE. The limited liquidity of the ordinary shares and ADSscould depress the trading prices of the ordinary shares and ADSs and could limit your ability to sell asubstantial number of ordinary shares or ADSs in a timely manner, especially by means of a large block trade. Your rights as a shareholder are governed by South African law, which differs in materialrespects from the rights of shareholders under the laws of other jurisdictions. 39 