Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company’s business is sensitive to economic cycles and to the availability and pricing of raw materials, and adverse changes in these factors could have a negative impact on the Company’s business. A significant percentage of the Company’s sales of residential and commercial building products is attributable to new residential and non-residential construction, which are affected by cyclical factors such as interest rates, seasonality, inflation, consumer spending habits and employment. In addition, the Company is dependent upon raw materials including, among others, steel, copper, packaging material, plastics, glass and aluminum and components that we purchase from third parties. Accordingly, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition have in the past been, and may again in the future be, adversely affected by such cyclicality and increases in raw material or component costs or their lack of availability. If the Company fails to integrate the businesses it has acquired or will acquire in the future, it could negatively impact the Company’s business. Historically, the Company has engaged in a significant number of acquisitions. The Company will continue to review future acquisition opportunities. The Company cannot assure the reader that it will continue to locate and secure acquisition candidates on terms and conditions that are acceptable to the Company. There are several risks in acquisitions, including: · the difficulty and expense that the Company incurs in connection with the acquisition, · the difficulty and expense that the Company incurs in the subsequent assimilation of the operations of the acquired company into the Company’s operations, · adverse accounting consequences of conforming the acquired company’s accounting policies to the Company’s, · the difficulty in operating acquired businesses, · the diversion of management’s attention from the Company’s other business concerns, and · the potential loss of key employees previously employed at acquired companies. The Company cannot assure the reader that any acquisition it has made or may make will be successfully integrated into its on-going operations or that it will achieve the estimated cost savings from the acquisition. If the operations of an acquired business do not meet expectations, the Company may be required to restructure the acquired business or write-off the value of some or all of the assets of the acquired business. Because the Company competes against competitors with substantially greater resources, the Company faces external competitive risks that may negatively impact the business. Substantially all of the markets in which the Company operates are highly competitive and many of its competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater financial and marketing resources than that of the Company. These competitive factors could require the Company to reduce prices or increase spending on product development, marketing and sales that would adversely affect the operating results of the Company. A significant portion of the Company’s workforce is unionized and labor disruptions could adversely affect the business. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 11.5% of the Company’s workforce was subject to various collective bargaining agreements. Collective bargaining agreements covering approximately 2.5% of the Company’s workforce expired in 2004 and were subsequently renewed on January 19, 2006, extending into 2007. On June 8, 2005 the Company’s collective bargaining agreement with the United Automobile Aerospace & Agricultural Implement Workers of America and its Local No. 2029 expired. That agreement is estimated, as of December 31, 2005, to cover approximately 4.9% of the Company’s employees (420 employees) which are located at the Cincinnati, OH location of the Company’s subsidiary NuTone, Inc. The Company has presented its final proposal to the union bargaining committee, but such proposal was not accepted by the union members. On July 16, 2005, the Company locked out the union employees at the NuTone Cincinnati, OH facility. On September 6, 2005, the Company notified the union bargaining committee that negotiations had reached an impasse and that it was unilaterally implementing the terms of its final offer. On March 6, 2006, the Company received notice that the union filed an unfair labor practice charge with the US National Labor Relations Board claiming that the Company had not bargained to impasse and that, from and after September 6, 2005, it had failed to bargain collectively and in good faith. The Company denies and will vigorously challenge such allegations. The Company’s management has provided temporary manufacturing support to ensure that operational disruptions are minimized and the Company’s customers’ needs are met without significant delay. NuTone’s operating results are included in the Company’s Residential Ventilation Products Segment. See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Item 8 of Part II of this report, incorporated herein by reference. A work stoppage at one of the Company’s facilities that lasts for a significant period of time could cause the Company to lose sales, incur increased costs and adversely affect its ability to meet customers’ needs. A plant shutdown or a substantial modification to a collective bargaining agreement could result in material gains and losses or the recognition of an asset impairment. As agreements expire, until negotiations are completed, it is not known whether the Company will be able to negotiate collective bargaining agreements on the same or more favorable terms as the current agreements or at all and without production interruptions, including labor stoppages. The Company faces risks of litigation and liability claims on environmental, product liability, workers compensation and other matters, the extent of which exposure can be difficult or impossible to estimate and which can negatively impact the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company is subject to legal proceedings and claims arising out of its businesses that cover a wide range of matters, including environmental matters, contract and employment claims, product liability claims, warranty claims and claims for modification, adjustment or replacement of component parts of units sold. Product liability, environmental and other legal proceedings include those related to businesses or properties the Company has previously owned or operated. The Company has used and continues to use various substances in its products and manufacturing operations and has generated and continues to generate waste, which have been or may be deemed to be hazardous or dangerous. As such, the Company’s business is subject to and may be materially and adversely affected by compliance obligations and other liabilities under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations to which it is subject. These laws and regulations affect ongoing operations and require capital costs and operating expenses in order to achieve and maintain compliance and, if violated, may result in fines, penalties and other sanctions. These laws and regulations also impose liability, without regard to knowledge or fault, relating to the existence of contamination at or associated with properties used in the Company’s current and former operations or those of its predecessors, or at locations to which current or former operations or those of predecessors have shipped waste. The Company cannot be certain that identification of presently unidentified environmental conditions, more vigorous enforcement by regulatory agencies, enactment of more stringent laws and regulations, or other unanticipated events will not arise in the future and give rise to material environmental liabilities which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations. The extent of the Company’s potential liability under environmental, product liability and workers’ compensation statutes, rules, regulations and case law cannot be quantified at this time. Further, due to the lack of adequate information and the potential impact of present and future regulations, there are circumstances where no range of potential exposure can be reasonably estimated. The Company’s business operations could be significantly disrupted if the Company lost members of its management team. The Company’s success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of its executive officers and key employees and consultants, both individually and as a group. The Company’s future performance will be substantially dependent on its ability to retain and motivate them. The loss of the services of any of these executive officers or key employees and consultants, particularly the Company’s chairman and chief executive officer, Richard L. Bready, and other executive officers named in “Executive Officers of the Company” could prevent the Company from executing its business strategy. See “Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant”. A significant equity investor controls the Company and its interests may not be in line with the reader’s interests. Thomas H. Lee Equity Fund V, L.P. and its co-investors control the ultimate parent company of NTK Holdings, which is the sole shareholder of Nortek Holdings, Inc., which is the sole shareholder of the Company, and exercise control over matters requiring approval of the Company’s stockholders and board of directors. Thomas H. Lee Equity Fund V, L.P. has the right to designate a majority of the members of the management committee of the ultimate parent company of the Company. In addition, THL Managers V, LLC, an affiliate of Thomas H. Lee Equity Fund V, L.P., provides the Company with financial advisory and management consulting services. Because of this control, transactions may be pursued that could enhance this equity investment while involving risks to the reader’s interests. There can be no assurance that the interests of the Company’s controlling equity investor will not conflict with the reader’s interests. See “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.” The Company’s substantial debt could negatively impact its business and prevent the Company from fulfilling its obligations under the notes. The Company has a substantial amount of debt. At December 31, 2005, the Company had approximately $1,373,781,000 of total debt outstanding and a debt to equity ratio of approximately 2.7:1. The terms of the Company’s other outstanding debt, including the 8 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes and the Company’s Senior Secured Credit Facility limit, but do not prohibit, the Company from incurring additional debt. At December 31, 2005, the Company had approximately $70,400,000 of additional borrowing capacity under the U.S. revolving portion of its Senior Secured Credit Facility and approximately $10,000,000 of additional borrowing capacity under the Canadian portion of its Senior Secured Credit Facility with approximately $19,600,000 in outstanding letters of credit. If new debt is added to current debt levels, the related risks described below could intensify. The amount of total debt that the Company incurs could have important consequences, including the following: · the Company’s ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, refinancing indebtedness, or other purposes could be impaired, · a substantial portion of the Company’s cash flow from operations will be dedicated to paying principal and interest on its debt, thereby reducing funds available for expansion or other purposes, · the Company may be more leveraged than some of its competitors, which may result in a competitive disadvantage, · the Company may be vulnerable to interest rate increases, as borrowings under the Company’s Senior Secured Credit Facility are at variable rates, · the Company’s failure to comply with the restrictions in its financing agreements would have a material adverse effect on the Company, and · the Company’s significant amount of debt could make it more vulnerable to changes in general economic conditions and could make it difficult to satisfy its obligations with respect to its outstanding debt. The Company believes that it will need to access the capital markets in the future to raise the funds to repay its debt. The Company has no assurance that it will be able to complete a refinancing or that it will be able to raise any additional financing, particularly in view of the Company’s anticipated high levels of debt and the restrictions under its current debt agreements. If the Company is unable to satisfy or refinance its current debt as it comes due, the Company may default on its debt obligations. If the Company defaults on its debt obligations, virtually all of its other debt could become immediately due and payable. The terms of our debt covenants could limit how we conduct our business and our ability to raise additional funds. The agreements which govern the terms of the Company’s debt, including the indentures that govern the 8 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes and the Company’s Senior Secured Credit Facility contain covenants that restrict the Company’s ability and the ability of its subsidiaries to: · incur additional indebtedness, · pay dividends or make other distributions, · make loans or investments, · incur certain liens, · enter into agreements restricting its subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends, · enter into transactions with affiliates, and · consolidate, merge or sell assets. In addition, the Company’s Senior Secured Credit Facility contains financial maintenance covenants, and the Company cannot assure the reader that such covenants will always be met. A breach of the covenants under the indentures that govern the Company’s 8 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes or under the Company’s Senior Secured Credit Facility could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. Such default may allow the creditors, if the agreements so provide, to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, an event of default under the Company’s Senior Secured Credit Facility would permit the lenders to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under that facility. Furthermore, if the Company was unable to repay the amounts due and payable under its Senior Secured Credit Facility, those lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. In the event the Company’s lenders or noteholders accelerate the repayment of their borrowings, the Company cannot assure the reader that it and its subsidiaries would have sufficient assets to repay such indebtedness. The Company’s future financing arrangements will likely contain similar or more restrictive covenants. As a result of these restrictions, the Company may be: · limited in how it conduct its business, · unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns, and · unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. These restrictions may affect the Company’s ability to grow in accordance with its plans. The Company may be unable to generate sufficient cash to service all of its indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy its obligations under such indebtedness, which may not be successful. The Company’s ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance its debt obligations depends on its subsidiaries’ financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond the Company’s control. The Company cannot assure the reader that its subsidiaries will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit the Company to pay or refinance its indebtedness. If the Company’s subsidiaries’ cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund the Company’s debt service obligations, the Company and its subsidiaries could face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance its indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit the Company to meet its scheduled debt service obligations. The Company may not be able to satisfy its obligations to holders of the Company’s indebtedness upon a change of control. A change of control may constitute an event of default under the Company’s Senior Secured Credit Facility and would also require the Company to offer to purchase its 8 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes at 101% of the principal amount thereof, together with accrued and unpaid interest. A default under the Company’s Senior Secured Credit Facility would result in an event of default under the indenture and under the indenture governing the Company’s 8 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes if the lenders accelerate the debt under the Company’s Senior Secured Credit Facility. If a change of control occurs, the Company may not have enough assets to satisfy all obligations under the Company’s Senior Secured Credit Facility and the indenture that governs the Company’s 8 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes. Upon the occurrence of a change of control, the Company could seek to refinance the indebtedness under the Company’s Senior Secured Credit Facility and the Company’s 8 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes or obtain a waiver from the lenders under the Company’s Senior Secured Credit Facility and the Company’s 8 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes. The Company cannot assure the reader, however, that it would be able to obtain a waiver or refinance its indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 