Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business: The Company’s business is dependent upon the levels of remodeling and replacement activity and new construction activity which have been negatively impacted by the economic downturn and the instability of the credit markets. Critical factors in the level of the Company’s sales, profitability and cash flows are the levels of residential remodeling and replacement activity and new residential and non-residential construction activity. The level of new residential and non-residential construction activity and, to a lesser extent, the level of residential remodeling and replacement activity are affected by seasonality and cyclical factors such as interest rates, inflation, consumer spending habits, employment levels and other macroeconomic factors, over which the Company has no control. Any decline in economic activity as a result of these or other factors typically results in a decline in new construction and, to a lesser extent, residential remodeling and replacement purchases, which would result in a decrease in the Company’s sales, profitability and cash flows. For example, reduced levels of home sales and housing starts and other softening in the housing markets in 2008 negatively affected the Company’s results of operations in 2008 and these factors are expected to continue to negatively affect the Company’s results of operations and cash flows throughout 2009. In addition, uncertainties due to the significant instability in the mortgage markets and the resultant impact on the overall credit market could continue to adversely impact the Company’s business. The tightening of credit standards and the decrease in home values are expected to result in a decline in consumer spending for home remodeling and replacement projects which could adversely impact the Company’s operating results. Additionally, increases in the cost of home mortgages and the difficulty in obtaining financing for new homes could continue to materially impact the sales of the Company’s products in the residential construction market. Fluctuations in the cost or availability of raw materials and components and increases in freight and other costs could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company is dependent upon raw materials and purchased components, including, among others, steel, motors, compressors, copper, packaging material, aluminum, plastics, glass and various chemicals and paints that it purchases from third parties. As a result, the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected by increases in costs of raw materials or components, or in limited availability of raw materials or components. The Company does not typically enter into long-term supply contracts for raw materials and components. In addition, the Company generally does not hedge against its supply requirements. Accordingly, the Company may not be able to obtain raw materials and components from its current or alternative suppliers at reasonable prices in the future, or may not be able to obtain raw materials and components on the scale and within the time frames the Company requires. Further, if the Company’s suppliers are unable to meet the Company’s supply requirements, the Company could experience supply interruptions and/or cost increases which (to the extent the Company was unable to find alternate suppliers or pass along these additional costs to its customers) could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. For example, during 2006 through 2008, the Company experienced significant increases in the prices it paid for steel, copper, aluminum and steel fabricated parts. In addition, the Company has experienced and may continue to experience an increase in freight and other costs due to rising oil and other energy prices. While the Company was able to offset a portion of these cost increases in these periods by raising prices to its customers for some products, as well as through strategic sourcing initiatives and improvements in manufacturing efficiency, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to offset all material cost increases in 2009 or in any future periods. The availability of certain raw materials and component parts from sole or limited sources of supply may have an adverse effect on the Company’s business. Sources of raw materials or component parts for certain of the Company’s operations may be dependent upon limited or sole sources of supply which may impact the Company’s ability to manufacture finished product. While the Company continually reviews alternative sources of supply, there can be no assurance that the Company will not face disruptions in sources of supply which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Weather fluctuations may negatively impact the Company’s business. Weather fluctuations may adversely affect the Company’s operating results and its ability to maintain sales volume. In the Company’s HVAC segment, operations may be adversely affected by unseasonably warm weather in the months of November to February and unseasonably cool weather in the months of May to August, which has the effect of diminishing customer demand for heating and air conditioning products. In all of the Company’s segments, adverse weather conditions at any time of the year may negatively affect overall levels of new construction and remodeling and replacement activity, which in turn may lead to a decrease in sales. Many of the Company’s operating expenses are fixed and cannot be reduced during periods of decreased demand for its products. Accordingly, the Company’s results of operations and cash flows will be negatively impacted in quarters with lower sales due to weather fluctuations. If the Company fails to identify suitable acquisition candidates, or to integrate the businesses it has acquired or will acquire in the future, it could negatively impact the Company’s business. Historically, the Company has engaged in a significant number of acquisitions, and those acquisitions have contributed significantly to the Company’s growth in sales and profitability, particularly in the HTP segment. However, the Company cannot assure that it will continue to locate and secure acquisition candidates on terms and conditions that are acceptable to the Company. If the Company is unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates, its growth, particularly in the HTP segment, could be impaired. There are several risks in acquisitions, including: · the difficulty and expense that the Company incurs in connection with the acquisition; · the difficulty and expense that the Company incurs in the subsequent assimilation of the operations of the acquired company into the Company’s operations; · adverse accounting consequences of conforming the acquired company's accounting policies to the Company’s; · the difficulties and expense of developing, implementing and monitoring systems of internal controls at acquired companies, including disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting; · the difficulty in operating acquired businesses; · the diversion of management's attention from the Company’s other business concerns; · the potential loss of customers or key employees of acquired companies; · the impact on the Company’s financial condition due to the timing of the acquisition or the failure to meet operating expectations for the acquired business; and · the assumption of unknown liabilities of the acquired company. The Company cannot assure that any acquisition it has made or may make will be successfully integrated into the Company’s on-going operations or that the Company will achieve any expected cost savings from any acquisition. If the operations of an acquired business do not meet expectations, the Company’s profitability and cash flows may be impaired and the Company may be required to restructure the acquired business or write-off the value of some or all of the assets of the acquired business. The Company does not expect to consummate any acquisitions in 2009. Because the Company competes against competitors with substantially greater resources, the Company faces external competitive risks that may negatively impact its business. The Company’s RVP and HTP segments compete with many domestic and international suppliers in various markets. The Company competes with suppliers of competitive products primarily on the basis of quality, distribution, delivery and price. Some of the Company’s competitors in these markets have greater financial and marketing resources than that of the Company. The Company’s Residential HVAC segment competes in both the site-built and manufactured housing markets on the basis of breadth and quality of product line, distribution, product availability and price. Most of the Company’s residential HVAC competitors have greater financial and marketing resources and the products of certain of the Company’s competitors may enjoy greater brand awareness than the Company’s residential HVAC products. The Company’s Commercial HVAC segment competes primarily on the basis of engineering support, quality, design and construction flexibility and total installed system cost. Most of the Company’s competitors in the commercial HVAC market have greater financial and marketing resources and enjoy greater brand awareness than the Company does. Competitive factors could require the Company to reduce prices or increase spending on product development, marketing and sales, either of which could adversely affect its operating results. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect the Company’s revenues, profitability and cash flows. The Company’s foreign operations expose the Company to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and currency devaluations. The Company reports its financial results in U.S. dollars, but a portion of its sales and expenses are denominated in Euros, Canadian Dollars and other currencies. As a result, changes in the relative values of U.S. dollars, Euros, Canadian Dollars and other currencies will affect the Company’s levels of revenues and profitability. If the value of the U.S. dollar increases relative to the value of the Euro, Canadian Dollar and other currencies, the Company’s levels of revenue and profitability will decline since the translation of a certain number of Euros or units of such other currencies into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes will represent fewer U.S. dollars. Conversely, if the value of the U.S. dollar decreases relative to the value of the Euro, Canadian Dollar and other currencies, the Company’s levels of revenue and profitability will increase since the translation of a certain number of Euros or units of such other currencies into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes will represent additional U.S. dollars. In addition, in the case of sales to customers in certain locations, the Company’s sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, Euros or Canadian Dollars but all or a substantial portion of the Company’s associated costs are denominated in a different currency. As a result, changes in the relative values of U.S. dollars, Euros and Canadian Dollars and any such different currency will affect the Company’s profitability and cash flows. Because the Company has substantial operations outside the United States, the Company is subject to the economic and political conditions of foreign nations. The Company has manufacturing facilities in several countries outside of the United States. In 2008, the Company sold products in approximately 100 countries other than the United States. Foreign net sales, which are attributed based upon the location of the Company’s subsidiary responsible for the sale, were approximately 21.2% and 21.5% of consolidated net sales for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The Company’s foreign operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including risks that: · foreign governments may impose limitations on the Company’s ability to repatriate funds; · foreign governments may impose withholding or other taxes on remittances and other payments to the Company, or the amount of any such taxes may increase; · an outbreak or escalation of any insurrection, armed conflict or act of terrorism, or another form of political instability, may occur; · natural disasters may occur, and local governments may have difficulties in responding to these events; · foreign governments may nationalize foreign assets or engage in other forms of governmental protectionism; · foreign governments may impose or increase investment barriers, customs or tariffs, or other restrictions affecting the Company’s business; and · development, implementation and monitoring of systems of internal controls of the Company’s international operations, including disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, may be difficult and expensive. The occurrence of any of these conditions could disrupt the Company’s business in particular countries or regions of the world, or prevent the Company from conducting business in particular countries or regions, which could reduce sales and adversely affect profitability. In addition, Nortek relies on dividends and other payments or distributions from its subsidiaries to meet its debt obligations. If foreign governments impose limitations on the Company’s ability to repatriate funds or impose or increase taxes on remittances or other payments to the Company, the amount of dividends and other distributions Nortek receives from its subsidiaries could be reduced, which could reduce the amount of cash available to Nortek to meet its debt obligations. Varying international business practices. The Company currently purchases raw materials, components and finished products from various foreign suppliers. To the extent that any such foreign supplier utilizes labor or other practices that vary from those commonly accepted in the United States, the Company’s business and reputation could be adversely affected by any resulting litigation, negative publicity, political pressure or otherwise. A decline in the Company’s relations with its key distributors and dealers or loss of major customers may negatively impact the Company’s business. The Company’s operations depend upon its ability to maintain relations with its independent distributors and dealers and the Company does not typically enter into long-term contracts with them. If the Company’s key distributors or dealers are unwilling to continue to sell the Company’s products, or if any of them merge with or are purchased by a competitor, the Company could experience a decline in sales. If the Company is unable to replace such distributors or dealers or otherwise replace the resulting loss of sales, the Company’s business, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. For the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 50% of the Company’s consolidated net sales were made through its independent distributors and dealers, and the Company’s largest distributor or dealer accounted for approximately 4% of consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008. In addition, the loss of one or more of the Company’s other major customers, or a substantial decrease in such customers' purchases from the Company, could have a material adverse effect on results of operations and cash flows. Because the Company does not generally have binding long-term purchasing agreements with its customers, there can be no assurance that the Company’s existing customers will continue to purchase products from the Company. The Company’s largest customer (other than a distributor or dealer) accounted for approximately 4% of consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008. Labor disruptions or cost increases could adversely affect the Company’s business. A work stoppage at one of the Company’s facilities that lasts for a significant period of time could cause the Company to lose sales, incur increased costs and adversely affect its ability to meet customers' needs. A plant shutdown or a substantial modification to employment terms (including the collective bargaining agreements affecting the Company’s unionized employees) could result in material gains or losses or the recognition of an asset impairment. As collective bargaining agreements expire and until negotiations are completed, it is not known whether the Company will be able to negotiate collective bargaining agreements on the same or more favorable terms as the current agreements, or at all, without production interruptions, including labor stoppages. At December 31, 2008, approximately 8% of the Company’s employees are unionized, and from time to time the Company experiences union organizing efforts directed at the Company’s non-union employees. The Company may also experience labor cost increases or disruptions in its non-union facilities in circumstances where the Company must compete for employees with necessary skills and experience or in tight labor markets. The Company must continue to innovate and improve its products to maintain its competitive advantage. The Company’s ability to maintain and grow its market share depends on the ability to continue to develop high quality, innovative products. An important part of the Company’s competitive strategy includes leveraging its distributor and dealer relationships and its existing brands to introduce new products. In addition, some of the Company’s HVAC products are subject to federal minimum efficiency standards and/or protocols concerning the use of ozone-depleting substances that have and are expected to continue to become more stringent over time. The Company cannot assure that its investments in product innovation and technological development will be sufficient or that it will be able to create and market new products to enable the Company to successfully compete with new products or technologies developed by the Company’s competitors, or meet heightened regulatory requirements in the future. The Company could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws. The Company’s operations are subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment, including those that impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, establish standards for the use, treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous materials and wastes and govern the cleanup of contaminated sites. The Company has used and continues to use various substances in its products and manufacturing operations, and has generated and continues to generate wastes, which have been or may be deemed to be hazardous or dangerous. As such, the Company’s business is subject to and may be materially and adversely affected by compliance obligations and other liabilities under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. These laws and regulations affect ongoing operations and require capital costs and operating expenditures in order to achieve and maintain compliance. For example, the United States and other countries have established programs for limiting the production, importation and use of certain ozone depleting chemicals, including HCFCs, a refrigerant used in the Company’s air conditioning and heat pump products. Some of these chemicals have been banned completely, and others are currently scheduled to be phased out in the United States by the year 2010. Modifications to the design of the Company’s products may be necessary in order to utilize alternative refrigerants. In addition, the Company could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, and third party property damage or personal injury claims, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws, or non-compliance with environmental permits required at its facilities. Certain environmental laws and regulations also impose liability, without regard to knowledge or fault, relating to the existence of contamination at or associated with properties used in the Company’s current and former operations, or those of the Company’s predecessors, or at locations to which current or former operations or those of the Company’s predecessors have shipped waste for disposal. Contaminants have been detected at certain of the Company’s former sites, and the Company has been named as a potentially responsible party at several third-party waste disposal sites. While the Company is not currently aware of any such sites as to which material outstanding claims or obligations exist, the discovery of additional contaminants or the imposition of additional cleanup obligations at these or other sites could result in significant liability. In addition, the Company cannot be certain that identification of presently unidentified environmental conditions, more vigorous enforcement by regulatory agencies, enactment of more stringent laws and regulations, or other unanticipated events will not arise in the future and give rise to material environmental liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company faces risks of litigation and liability claims on product liability, workers’ compensation and other matters, the extent of which exposure can be difficult or impossible to estimate and which can negatively impact the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company is subject to legal proceedings and claims arising out of its businesses that cover a wide range of matters, including contract and employment claims, product liability claims, warranty claims and claims for modification, adjustment or replacement of component parts of units sold. Product liability and other legal proceedings include those related to businesses the Company has acquired or properties it has previously owned or operated. The development, manufacture, sale and use of the Company’s products involve risks of product liability and warranty claims, including personal injury and property damage arising from fire, soot, mold and carbon monoxide. The Company currently carries insurance and maintains reserves for potential product liability claims. However, the Company’s insurance coverage may be inadequate if such claims do arise and any liability not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The accounting for self-insured plans requires that significant judgments and estimates be made both with respect to the future liabilities to be paid for known claims and incurred but not reported claims as of the reporting date. To date, the Company has been able to obtain insurance in amounts it believes to be appropriate to cover such liability. However, the Company’s insurance premiums may increase in the future as a consequence of conditions in the insurance business generally or the Company’s situation in particular. Any such increase could result in lower profits or cause the need to reduce the Company’s insurance coverage. In addition, a future claim may be brought against the Company which would have a material adverse effect on the Company. Any product liability claim may also include the imposition of punitive damages, the award of which, pursuant to certain state laws, may not be covered by insurance. The Company’s product liability insurance policies have limits that, if exceeded, may result in material costs that would have an adverse effect on future profitability. In addition, warranty claims are generally not covered by the Company’s product liability insurance. Further, any product liability or warranty issues may adversely affect the Company’s reputation as a manufacturer of high-quality, safe products and could have a material adverse effect on its business. Product recalls or reworks may adversely affect the Company’s business. In the event the Company produces a product that is alleged to contain a design or manufacturing defect, the Company could be required to incur costs involved to recall or rework that product. While the Company has undertaken several voluntary product recalls and reworks over the past several years, additional product recalls and reworks could result in material costs. Many of the Company’s products, especially certain models of bath fans, range hoods and residential furnaces and air conditioners, have a large installed base, and any recalls and reworks related to products with a large installed base could be particularly costly. The costs of product recalls and reworks are not generally covered by insurance. In addition, the Company’s reputation for safety and quality is essential to maintaining its market share and protecting its brands. Any recalls or reworks may adversely affect the Company’s reputation as a manufacturer of high-quality, safe products and could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company’s business operations could be significantly disrupted if it lost members of its management team. The Company’s success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of its executive officers and key employees and consultants, both individually and as a group. The Company’s future performance will be substantially dependent on its ability to retain and motivate them. The loss of the services of any of these executive officers or key employees and consultants, particularly Nortek’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Richard L. Bready, and the Company’s other executive officers, could prevent the Company from executing its business strategy. The Company’s business operations could be negatively impacted if it fails to adequately protect its intellectual property rights, if it fails to comply with the terms of its licenses or if third parties claim that the Company is in violation of its intellectual property rights. The Company is highly dependent on certain of the brand names under which it sells its products, including Broan® and NuTone®. Failure to protect these brand names and other intellectual property rights or to prevent their unauthorized use by third parties could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company seeks to protect its intellectual property rights through a combination of trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements. These protections may not be adequate to prevent competitors from using the Company’s brand names and trademarks without authorization or from copying the Company’s products or developing products equivalent to or superior to the Company’s. The Company licenses several brand names from third parties. In the event the Company fails to comply with the terms of these licenses, the Company could lose the right to use these brand names. In addition, the Company faces the risk of claims that the Company is infringing third parties' intellectual property rights. Any such claim, even if it is without merit, could be expensive and time-consuming; could cause the Company to cease making, using or selling certain products that incorporate the disputed intellectual property; could require the Company to redesign its products, if feasible; could divert management time and attention; and could require the Company to enter into costly royalty or licensing arrangements. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure: The Company’s substantial debt could negatively impact its business, prevent the Company from fulfilling its outstanding debt obligations and adversely affect its financial condition. The Company has a substantial amount of debt. At December 31, 2008, the Company had approximately $1,599.4 million of total debt outstanding. The terms of the Company’s outstanding debt, including Nortek’s 10% Senior Secured Notes due 2013, Nortek’s 8 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 and Nortek’s $350.0 million senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility (the “ABL Facility”) limit, but do not prohibit, the Company from incurring additional debt. If additional debt is added to current debt levels, the related risks described below could intensify. The substantial amount of the Company’s debt has or could have important consequences, including the following: · the Company’s ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, refinancing indebtedness, or other purposes is impaired; · a substantial portion of the Company’s cash flow from operations will be dedicated to paying principal and interest on its debt, thereby reducing funds available for expansion or other purposes; · the Company is more leveraged than some of its competitors, which may result in a competitive disadvantage; · the Company is vulnerable to interest rate increases, as certain of its borrowings, including those under Nortek’s ABL Facility, are at variable rates; · the Company’s failure to comply with the restrictions in its financing agreements would have a material adverse effect on it; · the Company’s significant amount of debt makes it more vulnerable to changes in general economic conditions; · the Company faces limitations on its ability to make strategic acquisitions, invest in new products or capital assets or take advantage of business opportunities; and · the Company is limited in its flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industries in which it operates. The Company believes that it will need to access the capital markets in the future to raise the funds to repay its substantial debt. In April 2009, Moody’s downgraded the debt ratings for Nortek and NTK Holdings from “B3” to “Caa2” and issued a negative outlook. Moody’s rating downgrade reflected the Company’s high leverage, reduced financial flexibility and the anticipated pressure of the difficult new home construction market and home values on the Company’s 2009 financial performance. The negative ratings outlook reflected Moody’s concern that the market for the Company’s products will remain under significant pressure so long as new housing starts do not rebound and that the repair and remodeling market could contract further in 2009. Additionally, Moody’s was concerned whether the Company’s cost cutting initiatives would be successful enough to offset pressure on the Company’s sales. The current debt ratings, and any further future rating agency downgrades in the Company's indebtedness, could impede its ability to refinance indebtedness or adversely impact future borrowing costs. The Company has no assurance that it will be able to complete a refinancing or that it will be able to raise any additional financing, particularly in view of the Company’s high levels of debt relative to its financial performance and the restrictions under its debt agreements. If the Company is unable to satisfy or refinance its indebtedness as it comes due, the Company will be in default on its debt obligations. If the Company defaults on its debt obligations and any of its indebtedness is accelerated, such acceleration will have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and cash flows. See also “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Liquidity and Capital Resources” included elsewhere herein for a further description of the terms and conditions of the Company’s outstanding indebtedness. The Company may be unable to generate sufficient cash to service all of its indebtedness and other liquidity requirements and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy such requirements, which may not be successful. The Company has significant cash payments due on its indebtedness and certain other specified obligations in 2009 and thereafter. For the year ending December 31, 2009, the Company owes principal and interest payments on its indebtedness in the total amount of approximately $164.5 million. In the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010, the total of such principal and interest payments is approximately $146.6 million. For a description of the obligations to which the payments referred to in this paragraph relate and the amount of the payments due on such obligations after December 31, 2010, see the table in “Liquidity and Capital Resources” included elsewhere herein. The Company’s ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance its debt obligations depends on its financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond the Company’s control. If the Company’s cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund the Company’s debt service obligations, the Company could face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to seek additional capital or restructure or refinance the Company’s indebtedness and it may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures and sell assets. In addition, the Company may seek to reduce its debt service obligations through the retirement or purchase of outstanding debt through cash purchases, prepayments and/or exchanges in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit the Company to meet its scheduled debt service obligations. The terms of the Company’s debt covenants could limit how the Company conducts its business and its ability to raise additional funds. The agreements that govern the terms of the Company’s debt, including the indentures that govern Nortek’s 10% Senior Secured Notes due 2013 and Nortek’s 8 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 and the credit agreement that governs Nortek’s ABL Facility, contain covenants that restrict Nortek’s ability and the ability of its subsidiaries to: · incur additional indebtedness; · pay dividends or make other distributions; · make loans or investments; · incur certain liens; · enter into transactions with affiliates; and · consolidate, merge or sell assets. There are limitations on Nortek’s ability to incur the full $350.0 million of commitments under Nortek’s ABL Facility. Availability is limited to the lesser of the borrowing base and $350.0 million, and the covenants under Nortek’s 8 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 do not currently allow Nortek to incur up to the full $350.0 million. As of December 31, 2008, Nortek had $145.0 million outstanding under the ABL Facility and additional borrowing capacity under the ABL Facility of approximately $69.0 million. Nortek will be required to deposit cash from its material deposit accounts (including all concentration accounts) daily in collection accounts maintained with the administrative agent under Nortek’s ABL Facility, which will be used to repay outstanding loans and cash collateralize letters of credit if (i) excess availability (as defined) is less than 15% of the lesser of the commitment amount and the borrowing base or (ii) an event of default has occurred and is continuing. In addition, under Nortek’s ABL Facility, if Nortek’s borrowing availability falls below the greater of (i) $40 million and (ii) 12.5% of the borrowing base, Nortek will be required to satisfy and maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio not less than 1.1 to 1.0. Nortek’s ability to meet the required fixed charge coverage ratio can be affected by events beyond the Company’s control. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under Nortek’s ABL Facility. A breach of the covenants under the indentures that govern Nortek’s 10% Senior Secured Notes due 2013 and Nortek’s 8 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 and the credit agreement that governs Nortek’s ABL Facility could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. Such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, an event of default under Nortek’s ABL Facility would permit the lenders under the ABL Facility to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under that facility. Furthermore, if Nortek was unable to repay the amounts due and payable under its ABL Facility, those lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. In the event the Company’s lenders or noteholders accelerate the repayment of its borrowings, the Company cannot assure that Nortek and its subsidiaries would have sufficient assets to repay such indebtedness. NTK Holdings has significant cash payments due on its indebtedness beginning in the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010, and the inability of NTK Holdings to make such payments may result in a change of control of Nortek. NTK Holdings has substantial debt service obligations beginning in the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010. During 2010, NTK Holdings alone has cash debt service obligations of approximately $162.3 million, including a payment of approximately $147.4 million due on March 1, 2010 under its 10 3/4% Senior Discount Notes. The ability of NTK Holdings to service its outstanding indebtedness depends on the likelihood of obtaining additional capital, restructuring the terms of such indebtedness or obtaining dividends or other payments from Nortek. The ability of NTK Holdings to obtain additional capital is adversely affected by the substantial amount of NTK Holdings’ and the Company’s outstanding indebtedness, including indebtedness of Nortek and its subsidiaries, which is structurally senior in right of payment to any new debt or equity financing for NTK Holdings. Although Nortek’s 10% Senior Secured Notes due 2013, Nortek’s 8 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 and Nortek’s ABL Facility limit Nortek’s ability to make certain payments, including dividends, to NTK Holdings, under the indenture that governs Nortek’s 10% Senior Secured Notes due 2013, Nortek has the capacity to make certain payments, including dividends, of up to approximately $145.9 million at December 31, 2008. Nortek may make a distribution or other payment to NTK Holdings, but in the event that such payments are not made or are not sufficient to enable NTK Holdings to make the payments due on its indebtedness, additional equity or a restructuring of NTK Holdings’ indebtedness, whether pursuant to privately negotiated transactions or under supervision of an appropriate court proceeding, will likely be required. A restructuring of the indebtedness of NTK Holdings could result in a change of control of Nortek. A change of control may constitute an event of default under Nortek’s ABL Facility and would also require Nortek to offer to purchase its 10% Senior Secured Notes due 2013 and 8 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 at 101% of the principal amount thereof, together with accrued and unpaid interest, and a default of Nortek’s ABL Facility would trigger a cross-default of the indentures. The failure of Nortek to complete the purchase of any notes tendered pursuant to such offer, whether due to lack of funds or otherwise, would constitute an event of default under the indentures governing such notes. See the risk factor above for a description of certain consequences which may result from events of default under Nortek’s ABL Facility and such indentures. Additional borrowings under the ABL Facility are subject to certain conditions and the lenders under Nortek’s ABL Facility have considerable discretion to impose restrictions and if such conditions are not met or such discretion is used to limit additional borrowings, the Company’s ability to service its outstanding indebtedness and conduct its business could be materially and adversely impaired. Additional borrowings under Nortek’s ABL Facility require the Company to make certain customary representations and warranties (including with respect to continued solvency and no material adverse effect) as of the date of such additional borrowing. In the event that the Company is unable to make such representations and warranties on such borrowing date, then the lenders under Nortek’s ABL facility may not honor such request for additional borrowing. If the lenders under Nortek’s ABL facility do not honor such requests, the Company’s ability to service its outstanding indebtedness and conduct its business could be materially and adversely impaired. Nortek’s ABL Facility provides the lenders considerable discretion to impose reserves or availability blocks, which could materially impair the amount of borrowings that would otherwise be available to the Company. There can be no assurance that the lenders under Nortek’s ABL Facility will not impose such actions during the term of the ABL Facility and further, were they to do so, the resulting impact of this action could materially and adversely impair the Company’s ability to service its outstanding indebtedness. If Nortek is unable to access funds generated by its subsidiaries, it may not be able to meet its financial obligations. Because Nortek conducts its operations through its subsidiaries, Nortek depends on those entities for dividends, distributions and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet its financial obligations. Legal restrictions in the United States and foreign jurisdictions applicable to Nortek’s subsidiaries and contractual restrictions in certain agreements governing current and future indebtedness of Nortek’s subsidiaries, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of Nortek’s subsidiaries, may limit Nortek’s ability to obtain cash from its subsidiaries. All of Nortek’s subsidiaries are separate and independent legal entities and have no obligation whatsoever to pay any dividends, distributions or other payments to Nortek. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 