ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Factors Affecting Future Operating Results The instability we may experience based on our continued management changes and involvement in arbitration or litigation related to those changes may further depress the price of our stock. In 2006, we went through a period of transition and replaced our president and chief executive officer, chief operating officer, vice president of U.S. sales and vice president of marketing. Recently, we hired a new senior vice president of sales to replace the prior vice president of sales we appointed in January 2006. In addition, Dr. Simpson, our chief executive officer and president, has indicated that if we find a suitable replacement, he plans to transition out of his current role by the end of 2007 into a position focused on research and development of new company products. As we search for and hire a new president and chief executive officer, we may again experience a period of instability. We are already the subject of litigation by stockholders who have suffered losses in the value of our stock during periods of transition, and we may incur costs or liabilities as a result of the departure of former employees. In any arbitration or litigation proceeding involving former employees we intend to defend ourselves vigorously which may be expensive. We retain employment practices liability and director and officer liability insurance but there can be no guarantee that such insurance will cover the claims that are made or will insure us fully for all losses on covered claims. Any such arbitration or litigation may distract our management and consume resources that would otherwise have been directed toward achieving our operating plan and generating increased revenue, which may further cause a decline in our stock price. We depend substantially on a single product, the SilverHawk, which we commercially launched in the United States at the beginning of 2004. If the SilverHawk fails to further penetrate the market or loses market acceptance, our business will suffer. The SilverHawk is our main product, and we are largely dependent on it. We expect that sales of the SilverHawk in the United States will account for a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Growth in demand for the SilverHawk has slowed and our failure to generate additional demand may negatively impact our operating revenue. We do not know if the SilverHawk will be successful over the long-term and it is possible that demand for the SilverHawk may decline over time. Market acceptance of the SilverHawk may be hindered if physicians are not presented with compelling data from long-term studies of the safety and efficacy of the SilverHawk compared against alternative procedures, such as angioplasty, stenting or bypass grafting. We recently initiated enrollment for PROOF, a study comparing treatment with the SilverHawk to bypass grafting, but it will be more than a year before initial data is available from that study and several years until the study is 26 Table of Contents concluded and final data is available. Other reasons that may influence the rate of SilverHawk adoption include the time required to perform the procedure and the lack of on-board visualization capability. If we are unable to make certain design improvements to the SilverHawk, we may be unable to generate new customers or retain our existing customers. Failure of the SilverHawk to significantly penetrate current or new markets would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. There exist limited long-term data regarding the safety and efficacy of the SilverHawk. Future long-term data may not be positive or consistent with data currently available, which would affect the rate at which our device is adopted. Our success depends heavily on acceptance of the SilverHawk by the medical community as safe and effective. Important factors upon which the efficacy of the SilverHawk will be measured are long-term data on the rate of restenosis, or plaque regrowth following our procedure, and the corresponding duration of patency, or openness of the artery. Another important factor that physicians will consider is the rate of reintervention, or retreatment, following the SilverHawk procedure. Because our technology is relatively new in the treatment of PAD, to date there have been a limited number of single-center, clinical experiences with limited patient populations that have measured short and mid-term restenosis and patency rates up to one year following treatment. None of these studies were conducted by us. We are and will be conducting studies designed to measure restenosis rates or patency rates after treatment with the SilverHawk and compare outcomes in a randomized manner to alternative procedures. These studies may be expensive and time consuming and the results may not prove favorable for the SilverHawk device. While subset data from the TALON registry regarding restenosis and patency rates were recently published, we cannot provide any assurance that the published data will be compelling to the medical community, because it may not be scientifically meaningful. In addition, the long-term effects of the SilverHawk procedure are not known. The results of limited long-term data and of short-term clinical experience of the SilverHawk do not necessarily predict long-term clinical benefit. Restenosis rates usually increase over time, and typically two-year restenosis rates are substantially higher than one-year results. We believe that physicians will compare the rates of long-term restenosis and reintervention for the SilverHawk procedure against alternative procedures, such as angioplasty, stenting and bypass grafting. If long-term rates of restenosis and reintervention do not meet physicians’ expectations, the SilverHawk may not become widely adopted and physicians may recommend alternative treatments for their patients. Other significant factors that physicians will consider include acute safety data on complications that occur during the SilverHawk procedure. If the results obtained from any future clinical studies or clinical or commercial experience indicate that the SilverHawk is not as safe or effective as other treatment options or as prior short-term or long-term data would suggest, adoption of our product may suffer and our business would be harmed. Even if we believe the data collected from clinical studies or clinical experience indicate positive results, each physician’s actual experience with our device will vary. Clinical studies conducted with the SilverHawk, as well as clinical experience recorded in the TALON registry, have involved procedures performed by physicians who are technically-proficient and high-volume users of the SilverHawk. Consequently, both short and long-term results reported in these studies and the TALON registry may be significantly more favorable than typical results of practicing physicians, which could negatively impact rates of adoption of the SilverHawk. If we make acquisitions or divestitures, we could encounter difficulties that harm our business. We may acquire companies, products or technologies that we believe to be complementary to the present or future direction of our business. If we engage in such acquisitions, we may have difficulty integrating the acquired personnel, financials, operations, products or technologies. For example, on September 12, 2006, we acquired Kerberos Proximal Solutions, Inc. and we are now beginning to sell the Rinspirator. We may find that 27 Table of Contents we are unable to gain market share or physician acceptance for this product. In addition, we may experience difficulties with transitioning the manufacturing of the Rinspirator to our facilities and the Rinspirator may be subject to regulatory and intellectual property risks that are different from those that we have encountered with the SilverHawk. In addition to the Kerberos acquisition, we may acquire other companies and product lines or enter into distribution agreements. Acquisitions may dilute our earnings per share, disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses, subject us to liabilities, and increase our risk of litigation, all of which could harm our business. If we use cash to acquire companies, products or technologies, it may divert resources otherwise available for other purposes. If we use our common stock to acquire companies, products or technologies, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. We depend on skilled and experienced personnel to operate our business effectively. If we are unable to recruit, hire and retain these employees, our ability to manage and expand our business will be harmed, which would impair our future revenue and profitability. Our success largely depends on the skills, experience and efforts of our officers and other key employees. Any of our officers and other key employees may terminate their employment at any time. In December 2005 our president and chief executive officer retired from our company. Since then, our vice president of sales and vice president of marketing have resigned. In addition, we decided to replace our chief operating officer and the senior vice president of sales that we appointed in January 2006. In addition, our current chief executive officer and president has indicated that if we find a suitable replacement, he plans to transition out of his current role by the end of 2007 into a position focused on research and development of new company products. We can not provide any assurance that we will find a qualified and acceptable replacement for the position of chief executive officer. In addition, we could lose some members of our senior management depending on who is selected to fill that position. The further loss of any of our senior management team could harm our business. Our ability to retain our skilled labor force and our success in attracting and hiring new skilled employees will be a critical factor in determining whether we will be successful in the future. We may not be able to meet our future hiring needs or retain existing personnel. We will face particularly significant challenges and risks in hiring, training, managing and retaining engineering and sales and marketing employees. Failure to attract and retain personnel, particularly technical and sales and marketing personnel, would harm our ability to compete effectively and grow our business. The announcement of the loss of one of our key employees could further negatively affect our stock price. We have a limited history of operations and a history of net losses that may prevent us from sustaining profitability. We have a limited history of operations upon which you can evaluate our business. In particular, we incurred net losses of $12.2 million in 2006, $11.6 million in 2005 and $29.9 million in 2004. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $97.3 million. We commenced full commercial sales of the SilverHawk in January 2004, and our short commercialization experience makes it difficult for us to predict future performance. Our failure to accurately predict financial performance may lead to volatility in our stock price. For example, the field inventory for SilverHawk product can fluctuate significantly and we believe has fluctuated in the past making it difficult to forecast product revenue. In addition, we expect our operating expenses will increase as we expand our business to meet anticipated growing demand for the SilverHawk and the Rinspirator and devote resources to our sales and marketing programs and research and development activities. Our failure to achieve profitability could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. Our future growth depends on physician adoption of the SilverHawk and the Rinspirator, which requires physicians to change their screening and referral practices. Although there is a significant correlation between PAD and coronary artery disease, many physicians do not routinely screen for PAD while screening for coronary artery disease. We target our sales efforts to interventional cardiologists and vascular surgeons because they are often the primary care physicians diagnosing and treating PAD. However, the initial point of contact for many patients may be general practitioners, podiatrists, 28 Table of Contents nephrologists or endocrinologists, each of whom commonly treats patients experiencing complications resulting from PAD. If we do not educate referring physicians about PAD in general and the existence of the SilverHawk and Rinspirator in particular, they may not refer patients to interventional cardiologists, vascular surgeons or interventional radiologists for the SilverHawk and Rinspirator procedures, and those patients may instead be surgically treated or treated with an alternative interventional procedure. If we are not successful in educating physicians about screening for PAD or about referral opportunities, our ability to increase our revenue may be impaired. Our ability to market the SilverHawk in the United States is limited to use in peripheral vessels and our ability to market the Rinspirator in the United States is limited to use in peripheral and coronary vessels. If we want to expand our marketing claims, we will need to file for additional FDA clearances or approvals and conduct further clinical trials, which would be expensive and time-consuming and may not be successful. For the SilverHawk we have FDA approval in the United States for treatment of atherosclerosis in the peripheral vasculature. This general clearance restricts our ability to market or advertise the SilverHawk for any specific indication within the peripheral arteries, which limits our ability to market the SilverHawk and could affect our growth. Off-label use of the SilverHawk outside the peripheral vasculature, in coronary and carotid arteries, has occurred and is likely to continue. In addition, off-label use for treatment of in-stent restenosis has occurred and is likely to continue. For the Rinspirator we have FDA clearance in the United States for treatment of thrombi in the peripheral and coronary vasculature. This general clearance restricts our ability to market or advertise the Rinspirator for any specific indication within the peripheral and coronary arteries, which limits our ability to market the Rinspirator and could affect our growth. While off-label uses of medical devices are common and the FDA does not regulate physicians’ choice of treatments, the FDA does restrict a manufacturer’s communications regarding such off-label use. We may not actively promote or advertise the SilverHawk or the Rinspirator for off-label uses. In addition, we cannot make comparative claims regarding the use of the SilverHawk or the Rinspirator against any alternative treatments without conducting head-to-head comparative clinical studies, which would be expensive and time consuming. If our promotional activities fail to comply with the FDA’s regulations or guidelines, we may be subject to FDA warnings or enforcement action. If we want to market the SilverHawk in the United States for use in coronary or carotid arteries, we will need to conduct further clinical trials and obtain premarket approval from the FDA. We previously began a clinical trial in support of FDA approval for use of the SilverHawk in the coronary arteries. Based on 172 patients treated in this trial, we experienced 37 serious adverse events in treating 28 patients, including 10 perforations, two cases of emergency bypass surgery, three cases of stroke, 14 cases of heart attack and eight patient deaths. We voluntarily halted enrollment so that we could incorporate safety and design improvements into our coronary product. We believe that these serious adverse events resulted from a number of factors, including the patients’ overall poor health, the complexity of treating the bifurcated lesions called for under the trial protocol, and the application of our device in the coronary arteries, which are extremely small and constantly move as the heart beats. We have made several design modifications to the coronary versions of our devices, and we have submitted an application to the FDA for a new Investigational Device Exemption, or IDE. The FDA has responded to our IDE application, and we now expect that further modifications to our devices will be necessary before the new trial can be started in the U.S. to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the SilverHawk in the coronary arteries. We cannot predict when the trial will be initiated, the outcome of such a trial or whether the results will adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the SilverHawk for use in coronary arteries. If we are unable to manage the anticipated growth of our business, our future revenue and operating results may be adversely affected. The growth that we have experienced, and in the future may experience, presents challenges to our company requiring us to rapidly expand our organization. For example, we will need to hire a significant number of people to meet the requirements of the Amended Merck Collaboration Agreement. If we do not deliver the product and 29 Table of Contents data required by this agreement our relationship with Merck may be harmed. Expansion in our organization may result in less experienced people producing and selling our product, which could result in unanticipated costs and disruptions to our operations. If we cannot scale and manage our business appropriately, our anticipated growth may be impaired and our financial results will suffer. We have limited experience manufacturing the SilverHawk and the Rinspirator in commercial quantities which could adversely impact our business. Because we have only limited experience in manufacturing the SilverHawk and Rinspirator in commercial quantities, we may encounter unforeseen situations that would result in delays or shortfalls. For example, in June 2004, we initiated a voluntary recall of two lots of the SilverHawk due to the possibility of improper sterilization at one of two approved sterilization facilities. We may encounter difficulties and delays in manufacturing our products for the following additional reasons: • we have significantly expanded our manufacturing operations, and our production processes may have to change to accommodate this growth; • key components of our products are currently provided by a single supplier or limited number of suppliers, and we do not maintain large inventory levels of these components; • to increase our manufacturing output significantly, we will have to attract and retain qualified employees, who are in short supply, for the assembly and testing operations; and • all of our manufacturing occurs in facilities located in the San Francisco bay area and if we were to lose availability of these facilities due to earthquake, fire, natural disaster or other disruptions, our operations would be significantly impaired. In addition, during 2007 we plan to consolidate the production of our Rinspirator product into our Redwood City manufacturing facility which will allow us to leverage our existing manufacturing infrastructure to increase production of the Rinspirator. However, during this transition we may experience difficulties that could impact our ability to meet the demand for both products. Manufacturers often experience difficulties in increasing production, including problems with production yields and quality control and assurance. If our manufacturing operations are unable to meet demand for our products, our revenue could be impaired, market acceptance for our products could be adversely affected, and our customers might instead purchase our competitors’ products. Additionally, although we maintain business interruption insurance, there can be no assurance that the proceeds of such insurance would be sufficient to offset any loss that we might incur or that we would be able to retain our customer base if operations were disrupted. We depend on third-party vendors in our manufacturing operations, making us vulnerable to supply shortages and price fluctuations that could harm our business. We currently rely on third-party vendors for the manufacture of most of the components used in the SilverHawk and the Rinspirator. Our reliance on these vendors subjects us to a number of risks that could impact our ability to manufacture our product and harm our business, including: • interruption of supply resulting from modifications to, or discontinuation of, a supplier’s operations; • delays in product shipments resulting from uncorrected defects, reliability issues or a supplier’s variation in a component; • inability to obtain adequate supply in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms; • difficulty identifying and qualifying alternative suppliers for components in a timely manner; • production delays related to the evaluation and testing of products from alternative suppliers and corresponding regulatory qualifications; and • delays in delivery by our suppliers due to changes in demand from us or their other customers. 30 Table of Contents Any significant delay or interruption in the supply of components, or our inability to obtain substitute components or materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and harm our business. We depend on single and limited source suppliers for some of the components of the SilverHawk and the Rinspirator, and if any of those suppliers are unable or unwilling to produce these components or supply them in the quantities that we need, we would experience manufacturing delays as a result. We rely on single and limited source suppliers for several of the components of the SilverHawk and the Rinspirator. For example, for the SilverHawk, we rely on one vendor for our torque shaft, one vendor for our cutting blade motor, one vendor for our cutter assembly, and one vendor for our tip housing. For the Rinspirator, we rely on one vendor for the hub and one vendor for the dual lumen extrusions. These components are critical to the SilverHawk and the Rinspirator and there are few alternative sources of supply for them. We do not carry a significant inventory of these components. Identifying and qualifying additional or replacement suppliers for any of the components used in the SilverHawk and the Rinspirator, if required, may not be accomplished quickly or at all and could involve significant additional costs. Any supply interruption from our vendors or failure to obtain additional vendors for any of the components used to manufacture the SilverHawk and the Rinspirator would limit our ability to manufacture our product and could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The use, misuse or off-label use of the SilverHawk and Rinspirator may result in injuries that lead to product liability suits, which could be costly to our business. We neither provide training for physicians nor require that physicians be trained in the use of the SilverHawk and the Rinspirator devices by a third party because we market primarily to physicians who are skilled in the interventional techniques required to use our device. Although the SilverHawk is cleared by the FDA for the treatment of atherosclerosis in the peripheral vasculature, we have indicated through our marketing efforts that certain treatment locations, such as arteries below the knee or above the leg, are not suited for physicians with limited experience using the device. There may be increased risk of injury if such physicians attempt SilverHawk procedures in peripheral arteries in these areas of the body. Not requiring training specific to the use of our device in various parts of the body may expose us to greater risk of product liability if injuries occur during the SilverHawk procedure. If demand for the SilverHawk continues to grow, less skilled surgeons will likely use the device, potentially leading to more injury and an increased risk of product liability. The use or misuse of the SilverHawk in the peripheral and coronary arteries has in the past resulted, and may in the future result, in complications, including damage to the treated artery, internal bleeding, limb loss and death, potentially leading to a product liability claim. The SilverHawk is not FDA-cleared or approved for treatment of carotid arteries, which are arteries leading to the brain, coronary arteries, iliac or renal vasculature or in-stent restenosis in the United States. Our sales force does not promote the product for off-label uses, and our U.S. instructions for use specify that the SilverHawk is not intended for use in the coronary arteries, carotid arteries or iliac or renal vasculature. However, we cannot prevent a physician from using the SilverHawk for these off-label applications. The application of the SilverHawk to coronary arteries, as opposed to peripheral arteries, is more likely to result in complications that have serious consequences. For example, if excised plaque were not captured properly in our device, it could be carried by the bloodstream to a narrower location, blocking a coronary artery, leading to a heart attack, or blocking an artery to the brain, leading to a stroke. We have had three reported incidents of stroke in our halted coronary trial, which may have been caused by excised arterial plaque entering the bloodstream. If the SilverHawk is defectively designed, manufactured or labeled, contains defective components or is misused, we may become subject to costly litigation by our customers or their patients. Product liability claims could divert management’s attention from our core business, be expensive to defend and result in sizable damage awards against us. The use or misuse of the Rinspirator in the peripheral and coronary arteries may in the future result in complications, including damage to the treated artery, internal bleeding, limb loss and death, potentially leading 31 Table of Contents to a product liability claim. The Rinspirator is not FDA-cleared or approved for treatment of carotid arteries, which are arteries leading to the brain, in the United States. Our sales force does not promote the product for off-label uses, and our U.S. instructions for use specify that the Rinspirator is intended for use in the coronary and peripheral arteries. However, we cannot prevent a physician from using the Rinspirator for off-label applications. The application of the Rinspirator to carotid arteries, as opposed to coronary or peripheral arteries, may result in complications that have serious consequences. For example, if excised plaque were not captured properly in our device, it could be carried by the bloodstream to a narrower location, blocking a carotid artery, leading to a stroke. If the Rinspirator is defectively designed, manufactured or labeled, contains defective components or is misused, we may become subject to costly litigation by our customers or their patients. Product liability claims could divert management’s attention from our core business, be expensive to defend and result in sizable damage awards against us. We may be subject, directly or indirectly, to federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations and, if we are unable to fully comply with such laws, could face substantial penalties. Our operations may be directly or indirectly affected by various broad state and federal healthcare fraud and abuse laws, including the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibit any person from knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing or arranging for an item or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. If our past or present operations, including our consulting arrangements with physicians who use our product, are found to be in violation of these laws, we or our officers may be subject to civil or criminal penalties, including large monetary penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment and exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid program participation. If enforcement action were to occur, our business and financial condition would be harmed. We compete against companies that have longer operating histories, more established products and greater resources, which may prevent us from achieving significant market penetration or improved operating results. With regard to the SilverHawk, we compete against very large and well-known stent and angioplasty device manufacturers, including Abbott Laboratories, Boston Scientific, Cook, Johnson & Johnson and Medtronic. We also compete against smaller manufacturers, including, among others: ev3, a manufacturer of peripheral vascular stents and angioplasty devices; Spectranetics, a manufacturer of excimer lasers for the treatment of coronary artery disease and PAD; W. L. Gore, (Medical Products Division), a manufacturer of endoprostheses stent-grafts, and Angioscore, a manufacturer of angioplasty devices. There are also several other companies that provide products used by surgeons in peripheral bypass procedures. Other competitors include pharmaceutical companies that manufacture drugs for the treatment of mild to moderate PAD. With regard to the Rinspirator, we compete against Possis Medical, ev3, Vascular Solutions, and several other manufacturers of aspiration catheters. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial and human capital resources than we do and have established reputations, as well as worldwide distribution channels that are more effective than ours. Competition with these companies could result in price-cutting, reduced profit margins and loss of market share, any of which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to distinguish our company and our products from our competitors and their products, and includes such factors as: • the ability of our products to treat patients safely and effectively; • predictable clinical performance; • ease of use; • price; 32 Table of Contents • adequate third-party reimbursement; and • brand and name recognition. Our competitors with greater financial resources could acquire other companies to gain enhanced name recognition and market share, as well as new technologies or products that could effectively compete with our existing product, which may cause our revenue to decline and would harm our business. Our ability to compete also depends on our ability to innovate successfully. If our competitors can compete directly against us or demonstrate the safety and efficacy of other methods of treatment, our revenue may decline. The market for medical devices is highly competitive, dynamic, and marked by rapid and substantial technological development and product innovations. There are few barriers that would prevent new entrants or existing competitors from developing products that compete directly with ours. Demand for our products could be diminished by equivalent or superior products and technologies offered by competitors. For example, drug-eluting stents have been developed for treating coronary artery disease and have been rapidly adopted. Cook Group is currently conducting clinical trials for the use of drug-eluting stents and Edwards Lifesciences is conducting clinical trials for the use of non-drug-eluting stents in the peripheral vasculature, each of which, if successful, may impact future SilverHawk sales. We are also aware of at least two other companies, Cardiovascular Systems, Inc. and Pathway Medical, developing plaque-removal devices intended for the treatment of PAD. If we are unable to innovate successfully or if new competitors emerge, our products could become obsolete, and our revenue would decline as our customers purchase our competitors’ products. We rely significantly on our chief executive officer for guidance and direction regarding the development of new products and improvements to existing products. We may choose to acquire complementary products and technologies to augment the number of our product offerings and add to the diversity of the SilverHawk system. Any acquisitions that we make may divert management’s attention from our core programs and may consume necessary resources without generating significant additional revenue. We may in the future be a party to patent litigation and administrative proceedings that could be costly and could interfere with our ability to sell our products. The medical device industry has been characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights, and companies in the industry have used intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage. We may become a party to patent infringement claims with our competitors or others and litigation or interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of inventions. The defense and prosecution of these matters are both costly and time consuming. Additionally, we may need to commence proceedings against others to enforce our patents, to protect our trade secrets or know-how or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. These proceedings would result in substantial expense to us and significant diversion of effort by our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in litigation or interference proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liabilities or injunctions which would require us to seek licenses. In addition, if we are found to willfully infringe third-party patents, we could be required to pay treble damages in addition to other penalties. Although patent and intellectual property disputes in the medical device area have often been settled through licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with such arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. We may be unable to obtain necessary licenses on satisfactory terms, if at all. If we do not obtain necessary licenses, we may not be able to redesign our products to avoid infringement. Adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products, which would have a significant adverse impact on our business. 33 Table of Contents We are aware of patents held by Abbott Laboratories that may be asserted against us in litigation that could be costly and could limit our ability to sell the SilverHawk or other products. We are aware of patent families related to catheter positioning and atherectomy, or plaque removal, owned or licensed by Abbott Laboratories. With regard to atherectomy patents, one of our founders, Dr. John Simpson, founded a company prior to founding our company that developed an atherectomy device that is currently sold by Abbott, and he is a listed inventor on several patents covering that device. Abbott’s device is currently marketed and sold for use in coronary arteries. We are not currently aware of any claims Abbott has made or intends to make against us. Because of a doctrine known as “assignor estoppel,” if any of Dr. Simpson’s earlier patents are asserted against us by Abbott, we may be prevented from asserting an invalidity defense regarding those patents, and our defense may be compromised. Abbott Laboratories has significantly greater financial resources than we do to pursue patent litigation and can assert these patent families against us at any time. Adverse determinations in such litigation could prevent us from manufacturing or selling the SilverHawk or other products, which would have a significant adverse impact on our business. Intellectual property rights may not provide adequate protection, which may permit third parties to compete against us more effectively. We rely on patents, trade secret laws and confidentiality agreements to protect our technology and products. Our pending patent applications may not issue as patents or, if issued, may not issue in a form that will be advantageous to us. Any patents we have obtained or will obtain in the future might be invalidated or circumvented by third parties. Should such challenges be successful, competitors might be able to market products and use manufacturing processes that are substantially similar to ours. We may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by consultants, vendors or former or current employees, despite the existence generally of confidentiality agreements and other contractual restrictions. Monitoring unauthorized use and disclosure of our intellectual property is difficult, and we do not know whether the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be adequate. In addition, the laws of many foreign countries will not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. To the extent our intellectual property protection is incomplete, we are exposed to a greater risk of direct competition. In addition, competitors could purchase our products and attempt to replicate some or all of the competitive advantages we derive from our development efforts or design around our protected technology. If our intellectual property is not adequately protected against competitors’ products and methods, our competitive position could be adversely affected, as could our business. If we fail to obtain and maintain necessary regulatory clearances or approvals for the SilverHawk and the Rinspirator, or if clearances or approvals for future products and indications are delayed or not issued, our commercial operations would be harmed. The SilverHawk and the Rinspirator are medical devices that are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA in the United States and by regulatory agencies in other countries where we do business. Government regulations specific to medical devices are wide-ranging and govern, among other things: • product design, development and manufacture; • product safety, testing, labeling and storage; • premarketing clearance or approval; • record keeping procedures; • product marketing, sales and distribution; and • post-marketing surveillance, reporting of deaths or serious injuries and medical device reporting. Before a new medical device or a new use of, or claim for, an existing product can be marketed in the United States, a company must first apply for and receive either 510(k) clearance or premarket approval from the FDA, 34 Table of Contents unless an exemption applies. Either process can be expensive, lengthy and unpredictable. Although we have obtained 510(k) clearance to market the SilverHawk for treatment of atherosclerosis in the peripheral vasculature, our clearance can be revoked if safety or efficacy problems develop. We voluntarily suspended our U.S. clinical trial for the use of the SilverHawk in coronary arteries. To market the SilverHawk in the United States for this use, we must successfully complete a clinical trial, submit a premarket approval application to the FDA and obtain premarket approval. Therefore, even once we believe we have successfully developed the SilverHawk for use in the coronary arteries, we may not be permitted to market our device for this indication in the United States for a number of years, if at all. Delays in obtaining approval could adversely affect our future growth. Although we have obtained 510(k) clearance to market the Rinspirator for infusing physician specified fluid and remove/aspirate fluid, fresh, soft emboli and thrombi from the coronary and peripheral vasculature, our clearance can be revoked if safety or efficacy problems develop. This could adversely affect our future growth. We are also subject to medical device reporting regulations that require us to report to the FDA if our product causes or contributes to a death or serious injury or if a malfunction, were it to occur, might cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. For the fourth quarter of 2006, the FDA has received 11 medical device reports associated with procedures where the SilverHawk was used and one associated procedure where the Rinspirator was used. These reports can be categorized as follows: SilverHawk • Two reports resulted from tip detachments due to wire wrap; • One report resulted from difficulty in turning the device on and off and there was an embolic event during this procedure; • One report resulted from the cutter not retracting which may have resulted in an embolic event but there was no adverse clinical result; • Six reports resulted from tip detachments due to excessive force with no adverse clinical result; • One report resulted from tip detachment that required intervention with the Rinspirator; and • One report resulted from a death where the device was not considered to be a contributor to the cause of death. The probable cause of death was attributed to an acute pulmonary embolism. The FDA and state authorities have broad enforcement powers. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in enforcement action by the FDA or state agencies, which may include any of the following sanctions: • warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; • repair, replacement, refunds, recall or seizure of our products; • operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • refusing our requests for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new products; new intended uses of, or modifications to, existing products; • withdrawing 510(k) clearance or premarket approvals that have already been granted; and • criminal prosecution. If any of these events were to occur, our business and financial condition would be harmed. Modifications to the SilverHawk and the Rinspirator may require new 510(k) clearances or premarket approvals or may require us to recall or cease marketing the SilverHawk and the Rinspirator until clearances are obtained. Modifications to the SilverHawk and the Rinspirator may require new 510(k) clearances or premarket approvals or require us to recall or cease marketing the modified devices until these clearances or approvals are obtained. 35 Table of Contents The FDA requires device manufacturers to initially make and document a determination of whether or not a modification requires a new approval, supplement or clearance; however, the FDA can review and disagree with a manufacturer’s decision. Any modification to an FDA-cleared device that would significantly affect its safety or efficacy or that would constitute a major change in its intended use would require a new 510(k) clearance or possibly a premarket approval. We may not be able to obtain additional 510(k) clearances or premarket approvals for new products or for modifications to, or additional indications for, our products in a timely fashion, or at all. Delays in obtaining required future clearances would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would harm our future growth. We have made modifications to the SilverHawk in the past and may make additional modifications in the future that we believe do not or will not require additional clearances or approvals. If the FDA disagrees and requires new clearances or approvals for the modifications, we may be required to recall and to stop marketing the SilverHawk and/or the Rinspirator as modified, which could harm our operating results and require us to redesign the SilverHawk. In these circumstances, we may be subject to significant enforcement actions. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, our manufacturing operations could be delayed and our sales could suffer. Our manufacturing processes and those of our suppliers are required to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, which covers the procedures and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. We are also subject to similar state requirements and licenses. In addition, we must engage in extensive recordkeeping and reporting and must make available our manufacturing facilities and records for periodic inspections by governmental agencies, including the FDA, state authorities and comparable agencies in other countries. Our Redwood City facility was inspected by the FDA in June 2006 and four minor observations were noted. We corrected the observations and they were submitted to the FDA. An FDA audit was completed in August 2006 and no observations were noted. Our Cupertino facility was inspected by the FDA in July 2006 with no observations noted. Our Redwood City facility was inspected by the CDHS (FDB) in May 2006 and one minor observation was noted. Our response to this observation has been accepted by the CDHR (FDB) and we believe that we are in substantial compliance with the QSR. In the event these corrective actions are not accepted or if we fail a Quality System inspection, our operations could be disrupted and our manufacturing interrupted. Failure to take adequate corrective action in response to an adverse Quality System inspection could result in, among other things, a shut-down of our manufacturing operations, significant fines, suspension of marketing clearances and approvals, seizures or recalls of our device, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which would cause our business to suffer. Furthermore, our key component suppliers may not currently be or may not continue to be in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements, which may result in manufacturing delays for our product and cause our revenue to decline. Our products may in the future be subject to product recalls that could harm our reputation. The FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material regulatory deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. A government mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design or labeling defects. In June 2004, we initiated a voluntary recall of two lots of the SilverHawk due to the possibility of improper sterilization. We continue to use both the testing facility and sterilization facility involved in the recall. In October 2004, we received a formal closure notice from the FDA regarding the recall. Additional recalls of the SilverHawk would divert managerial and financial resources, harm our reputation with customers and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A recall announcement would negatively affect our stock price. Changes in coverage and reimbursement for procedures using our products could affect the adoption of our products and our future revenue. Currently, the SilverHawk procedure is typically reimbursed by third-party payors, including Medicare, Medicaid, and private healthcare insurance companies, under existing atherectomy procedure codes, and the 36 Table of Contents Rinspirator is typically reimbursed by third-party payors, including Medicare, Medicaid, and private healthcare insurance companies, under existing secondary and coronary thrombectomy codes. These payors may adversely change their coverage and reimbursement policies, as well as payment amounts. In September 2006, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, released the following 2007 increases for the three in-patient reimbursement codes most frequently used with the SilverHawk procedure, DRGs 479, 554 and 553, increased by 2.8%, 4.0% and 1.0%, respectively. CMS also released for 2007 an increase of 5.0% for the reimbursement code APC 0081 which is the out-patient code that is used for the SilverHawk procedure. Also, healthcare reform legislation or regulation may be proposed or enacted in the future, which may adversely affect such policies and amounts. We cannot predict whether and to what extent existing coverage and reimbursement will continue to be available. If physicians, hospitals and other providers are unable to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement for procedures using our products, they are less likely to use them and our business would be adversely impacted. The expense and potential unavailability of insurance coverage for our company or our customers could adversely affect our ability to sell our products, which would harm our business. We may not have sufficient insurance coverage for future product liability claims. We may not be able to obtain insurance in amounts or scope sufficient to provide us with adequate coverage against all potential liabilities. Any product liability claims brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our product liability insurance rates or prevent us from securing continuing coverage, harm our reputation in the industry and reduce product sales. Product liability claims in excess of our insurance coverage would be paid out of cash reserves, harming our financial condition and adversely affecting our financial condition and operating results. Some of our customers and prospective customers may have difficulty in procuring or maintaining liability insurance to cover their operation and use of our products. Medical malpractice carriers are withdrawing coverage in certain states or substantially increasing premiums. If this trend continues or worsens, our customers may discontinue using our products and potential customers may opt against purchasing our products due to the cost or inability to procure insurance coverage. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations could be expensive. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could subject us to significant liability. Our manufacturing operations involve the use of hazardous substances and are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations relating to the storage, use, discharge, disposal, remediation of, and human exposure to, hazardous substances. Our research and development and manufacturing operations produce biological waste materials, such as human and animal tissue, and waste solvents, such as isopropyl alcohol. These operations are permitted by regulatory authorities, and the resultant waste materials are disposed of in material compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Compliance with these laws and regulations may be expensive and non-compliance could result in substantial liabilities. In addition, our manufacturing operations may result in the release, discharge, emission or disposal of hazardous substances that could cause us to incur substantial liabilities, including costs for investigation and remediation. Our leased Redwood City facility sits on property formerly occupied by Rohm & Haas and Occidental Chemical Company and contains residual contamination in soil and groundwater from these past industrial operations. Rohm & Haas and Occidental Chemical Company previously performed soil remediation on the property under the supervision of the California Regional Water Quality Control Board. Rohm & Haas has indemnified the owner of the facility and its tenants against costs associated with the residual contamination, but there can be no assurance that this indemnification will be adequate to cover the extent of the liability. Environmental laws and regulations could become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations. We cannot assure you that violations of these laws and regulations will not occur in the future or have not occurred in the past as a result of human error, accidents, equipment failure or other causes. The expense associated with environmental regulation and remediation could harm our financial condition and operating results. 37 Table of Contents Our directors, officers, and affiliates have significant voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. As of February 22, 2007, our directors, officers, and affiliates each holding more than 5% of our common stock collectively controlled approximately 33% our outstanding common stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by such persons. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, would be able to exercise significant control over the management and affairs of our company and most matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, might adversely affect the market price of our common stock and may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law could discourage a takeover. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors; • advance notice requirements to stockholders for matters to be brought at stockholder meetings; • a supermajority stockholder vote requirement for amending certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws; and • the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. These provisions might discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or a change in our management. The existence of these provisions could adversely affect the voting power of holders of common stock and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future, and any return on investment may be limited to the value of our stock. We have never paid cash dividends and do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends will depend on our earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, prospects and other factors our board of directors may deem relevant. If we do not pay dividends, our stock may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 