ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS AND THE REAL ESTATE BUSINESS GENERALLY We engage in real estate activities which are speculative and involve a high degree of risk The real estate industry is highly cyclical by nature, the current market is experiencing a significant decline and future market conditions are uncertain. Factors which adversely affect the real estate and homebuilding industries, many of which are beyond our control, include: • overbuilding or decreases in demand; • inventory build-up due to buyers contract cancellations; • the availability and cost of financing; • unfavorable interest rates and increases in inflation; • changes in the general availability of land and competition for available land; • construction defects and warranty claims arising in the ordinary course of business or otherwise, including mold related property damage and bodily injury claims and homeowner and homeowners’ association lawsuits; • changes in national, regional and local economic conditions; • cost overruns, inclement weather, and labor and material shortages; • the impact of present or future environmental legislation, zoning laws and other regulations; • availability, delays and costs associated with obtaining permits, approvals or licenses necessary to develop property, and • increase in real estate taxes, insurance and other local government fees. 9 Table of Contents We have experienced a decline in our homebuilding operations over the past year which has adversely affected our sales volume and pricing. In 2006, the homebuilding industry in our markets experienced a significant decline in demand for new homes. The trends in the homebuilding industry continue to be unfavorable. Demand has slowed as evidenced by fewer new orders and lower conversion rates in the markets in which we operate. These conditions have been particularly difficult in Florida, which is the market in which we have the strongest presence. Spec inventories have increased as a result of higher cancellation rates on pending contracts as new homeowners sometimes find it more advantageous to forfeit a deposit than to close on the purchase of the home. The combination of the lower demand and higher inventories affects both the number of homes we can sell and the prices at which we can sell them. We cannot predict how long demand and other factors in the homebuilding market will remain unfavorable, how active the market will be during the coming periods and if sales volume and pricing will return to past levels or levels that will enable us to operate more profitably. Our industry is highly competitive The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. We compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders. This competition with other homebuilders could reduce the number of homes we deliver or cause us to accept reduced margins in order to maintain sales volume. We also compete with the resale of existing homes, including foreclosed home sales by lenders, sales by housing speculators and available rental housing. As demand for homes has slowed, the number of completed unsold homes has increased as well as the supply of existing homes. Competition with existing inventory, including homes purchased for speculation, has resulted in increased pressure on the prices at which we are able to sell homes, as well as upon the number of homes we can sell. Continued decline in land values could result in further impairment write-offs. Some of the land we currently own was purchased at prices that reflected the historic high demand cycle in the homebuilding industry. The recent slowdown in the homebuilding industry in our markets resulted in $36.8 million of homebuilding inventory impairments for the year ended December 31, 2006. If market conditions continue to deteriorate, the fair value of some of these assets or additional assets may decrease and be subject to future impairment write-offs and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Further, impairment write-offs could also result in the acceleration of debt which is secured by impaired assets. In order to remain competitive, we are aggressively offering sales incentives which will negatively impact our margins and may impact our backlog. Because real estate investments are illiquid, a decline in the real estate market or in the economy in general could adversely impact our business and our cash flow. Real estate investments are generally illiquid. Companies that invest in real estate have a limited ability to vary their portfolio of real estate investments in response to changes in economic and other conditions. In addition, the market value of any or all of our properties or investments may decrease in the future. Moreover, we may not be able to timely dispose of an investment when we find dispositions advantageous or necessary, or complete the disposition of properties under contract to be sold, and any such dispositions may not provide proceeds in excess of the amount of our investment in the property or even in excess of the amount of any indebtedness secured by the property. As part of our strategy for future growth, we significantly increased our land inventory during 2006, with our inventory of real estate increasing from $611.3 million at December 31, 2005 to $822.0 million at December 31, 2006. This substantial increase in our land holdings and concentration in Florida subjects us to a greater risk from declines in real estate values in our markets. Further, these newly acquired properties were purchased at a time when competition for land was very high, and accordingly these properties may be more susceptible to impairment write downs in the current real estate environment. Declines in real estate values or in the economy generally could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Shortages of supplies and labor could increase costs and delay deliveries, which may adversely affect our operating results Our ability to develop our projects may be affected by circumstances beyond our control, including: • shortages or increases in prices of construction materials; • natural disasters in the areas in which we operate; • work stoppages, labor disputes and shortages of qualified trades people, such as carpenters, roofers, electricians and plumbers; • lack of availability of adequate utility infrastructure and services; and • our need to rely on local subcontractors who may not be adequately capitalized or insured. Any of these circumstances could give rise to delays in the start or completion of, or increase the cost of, developing one or more of our projects or individual homes. We compete with other real estate developers, both regionally and nationally, for labor as well as raw materials, and the competition for materials has recently become global. Increased costs or shortages of lumber, drywall, steel, concrete, roofing materials, pipe and asphalt could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. Historically, we have sought to manage our costs, in part, by entering into short-term, fixed-price materials contracts with selected subcontractors and material suppliers. We may be unable to achieve cost containment in the future by using fixed-price contracts. Without corresponding increases in the sales prices of our real estate inventories (both land and finished homes), increasing materials costs associated with land development and home building could negatively affect our margins. We may not be able to recover these increased costs by raising our home prices because, typically, the price for each home is set in a home sale contract with the customer months prior to delivery. If we are unable to increase our prices for new homes to offset these increased costs, our operating results could be adversely affected. Natural disasters could have an adverse effect on our real estate operations We currently develop and sell a significant portion of our properties in Florida. The Florida markets in which we operate are subject to the risks of natural disasters such as hurricanes and tropical storms. These natural disasters could have a material adverse effect on our business by causing the incurrence of uninsured losses, increased homebuyer insurance rates, delays in construction, and shortages and increased costs of labor and building materials. In 2005 three named storms made landfall in the State of Florida causing little damage to our communities. In addition, during the 2004 hurricane season, five named storms made landfall in the State causing property damage in several of our communities; however, our losses were primarily related to landscaping and claims based on water intrusion associated with the hurricanes, and we have attempted to address those issues. In May 2005, a purported class action was brought on behalf of owners of homes in a particular Central Florida Levitt and Sons’ subdivision alleging construction defects and damage suffered during certain of the hurricanes in 2004. In addition to property damage, hurricanes may cause disruptions to our business operations. New homebuyers cannot obtain insurance until after named storms have passed, creating delays in new home deliveries. Approaching storms require that sales, development and construction operations be suspended in favor of storm preparation activities such as securing construction materials and equipment. After a storm has passed, construction-related resources such as sub-contracted labor and building materials are likely to be redeployed to hurricane recovery efforts around the state. Governmental permitting and inspection activities may similarly be focused primarily on returning displaced residents to homes damaged by the storms rather than on new construction activity. Depending on the severity of the damage caused by the storms, disruptions such as these could last for several months. Our ability to sell lots and homes, and, accordingly, our operating results, will be affected by the availability of financing to potential purchasers 11 Table of Contents Most purchasers of real estate finance their acquisitions through third-party mortgage financing. Residential real estate demand is generally adversely affected by: • increases in interest rates, • decreases in the availability of mortgage financing, • increasing housing costs, • unemployment, and • changes in federally sponsored financing programs. Increases in interest rates or decreases in the availability of mortgage financing could depress the market for new homes because of the increased monthly mortgage costs or the unavailability of financing to potential homebuyers. Even if potential customers do not need financing, increases in interest rates and decreased mortgage availability could make it harder for them to sell their homes. Recently, increases in rates on certain adjustable rate mortgage products and a trend of increasing defaults by borrowers generally, including under subprime, certain interest only and negative amortization mortgage loans could lead to a reduction in the availability of mortgage financing. If demand for housing declines, land may remain in our inventory longer and our corresponding borrowing costs would increase. This would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our ability to successfully develop communities could affect our financial condition It may take several years for a community development to achieve positive cash flow. Before a community development generates any revenues, material expenditures are required to acquire land, to obtain development approvals and to construct significant portions of project infrastructure, amenities, model homes and sales facilities. If we are unable to develop and market our communities successfully and to generate positive cash flows from these operations in a timely manner, it will have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our working capital requirements. A portion of our revenues from land sales in our master planned communities are recognized for accounting purposes under the percentage of completion method, therefore if our actual results differ from our assumptions our profitability may be reduced. Under the percentage of completion method for recognizing revenue, we record revenue as work on the project progresses. This method relies on estimates of total expected project costs. Revenue and cost estimates are reviewed and revised periodically as the work progresses. Adjustments are reflected in contract revenue in the period when such estimates are revised. Variation of actual results and our estimates in these large master planned communities could be material. Product liability litigation and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business may be costly which could adversely affect our business Our homebuilding and commercial development business is subject to construction defect and product liability claims arising in the ordinary course of business. These claims are common in the homebuilding and commercial real estate industries and can be costly. We have, and many of our subcontractors have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensation and other business insurance. However, these insurance policies only protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims. In addition, because of the uncertainties inherent in these matters, we cannot provide reasonable assurance that our insurance coverage or our subcontractor arrangements will be adequate to address all warranty, construction defect and liability claims in the future. In addition, the costs of insuring against construction defect and product liability claims, if applicable, are high and the amount of coverage offered by insurance companies is also currently limited. There can be no assurance that this coverage will not be further restricted and become more costly. If we are not able to obtain adequate insurance against these claims, we may experience losses that could negatively impact our operating results. We are currently a defendant in a purported class action lawsuit alleging construction defects and seeking damages. 12 Table of Contents While we are vigorously defending this action, we will be required to incur legal fees and there is no assurance that we will be successful in litigation. Further, as a community developer, we may be expected by community residents from time to time to resolve any real or perceived issues or disputes that may arise in connection with the operation or development of our communities. Any efforts made by us in resolving these issues or disputes may not satisfy the affected residents and any subsequent action by these residents could negatively impact sales and results of operations. In addition, we could be required to make material expenditures related to the settlement of such issues or disputes or to modify our community development plans. We are subject to governmental regulations that may limit our operations, increase our expenses or subject us to liability We are subject to laws, ordinances and regulations of various federal, state and local governmental entities and agencies concerning, among other things: • environmental matters, including the presence of hazardous or toxic substances, • wetland preservation, • health and safety, • zoning, land use and other entitlements, • building design, and • density levels. In developing a project and building homes or commercial properties, we may be required to obtain the approval of numerous governmental authorities regulating matters such as: • installation of utility services such as gas, electric, water and waste disposal, • the dedication of acreage for open space, parks and schools, • permitted land uses, and • the construction design, methods and materials used. These laws or regulations could, among other things: • establish building moratoriums, • limit the number of homes, or commercial properties that may be built, • change building codes and construction requirements affecting property under construction, • increase the cost of development and construction, and • delay development and construction. We may also at times not be in compliance with all regulatory requirements. If we are not in compliance with regulatory requirements, we may be subject to penalties or we may be forced to incur significant expenses to cure any noncompliance. In addition, some of our land and some of the land that we may acquire have not yet received planning approvals or entitlements necessary for planned or future development. Failure to obtain entitlements necessary for further development of this land on a timely basis or to the extent desired may adversely affect our future results and prospects. Several governmental authorities have also imposed impact fees as a means of defraying the cost of providing governmental services to developing areas, and many of these fees have increased significantly during recent years. Building moratoriums and changes in governmental regulations may subject us to delays or increased costs of construction or prohibit development of our properties We may be subject to delays or may be precluded from developing in certain communities because of building moratoriums or changes in statutes or rules that could be imposed in the future. The 13 Table of Contents State of Florida and various counties have in the past and may in the future continue to declare moratoriums on the issuance of building permits and impose restrictions in areas where the infrastructure, such as roads, schools, parks, water and sewage treatment facilities and other public facilities, does not reach minimum standards. Additionally, certain counties in Florida, including counties where we are developing projects, have enacted more stringent building codes which have resulted in increased costs of construction. As a consequence, we may incur significant expenses in connection with complying with new regulatory requirements that we may not be able to pass on to buyers. We are subject to environmental laws and the cost of compliance could adversely affect our business As a current or previous owner or operator of real property, we may be liable under federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in the property. These laws often impose liability whether or not we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The cost of investigating, remediating or removing such hazardous or toxic substances may be substantial. The presence of any such substance, or the failure promptly to remediate any such substance, may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property, to use the property for our intended purpose, or to borrow using the property as collateral. Increased insurance risk could negatively affect our business Insurance and surety companies may take actions that could negatively affect our business, including increasing insurance premiums, requiring higher self-insured retentions and deductibles, requiring additional collateral or covenants on surety bonds, reducing limits, restricting coverages, imposing exclusions, and refusing to underwrite certain risks and classes of business. Any of these actions may adversely affect our ability to obtain appropriate insurance coverage at reasonable costs which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We utilize community development districts to fund development costs We establish community development districts to access tax-exempt bond financing to fund infrastructure and other projects at our master-planned communities. We are responsible for any assessed amounts until the underlying property is sold. We will continue to be responsible for the annual assessments if the property is never sold. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMPANY Our indebtedness and leverage could adversely affect our financial condition, restrict our ability to operate and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations We have a significant amount of debt. At December 31, 2006, our consolidated debt was approximately $615.7 million. Our debt could: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payment of or on our debt and reduce our ability to use our cash flow for other purposes, • be accelerated if we do not meet required covenants or the collateral securing the indebtedness decreases in value, • make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business or in general economic conditions. • impact our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, the changes in our business, • limit our ability to obtain future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other requirements, and • place us at a competitive disadvantage if we have more debt than our competitors. Our ability to meet our debt service and other obligations, to refinance our indebtedness or to fund 14 Table of Contents planned capital expenditures will depend upon our future performance. We are engaged in businesses that are substantially affected by changes in economic cycles. Our revenues and earnings vary with the level of general economic activity in the markets we serve. The factors that affect our ability to generate cash can also affect our ability to raise additional funds for these purposes through the sale of equity securities, the refinancing of debt, or the sale of assets. Changes in prevailing interest rates may affect our ability to meet our debt service obligations, because borrowings under a significant portion of our debt instruments bear interest at floating rates. Our anticipated minimum debt payment obligations in 2007 total approximately $46.0 million, which does not include repayments of specified amounts upon a sale of portions of the property securing the debt or any amounts that could be accelerated in the event that property serving as collateral becomes impaired. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and future borrowings may not be available under our existing credit facilities or any other financing sources in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity, which we may not be able to do on favorable terms or at all. Our outstanding debt instruments and bank credit facilities impose restrictions on our operations and activities. The most significant restrictions relate to debt incurrence, lien incurrence, sales of assets and cash distributions by us and require us to comply with certain financial covenants. If we fail to comply with any of these restrictions or covenants, the holders of the applicable debt could cause our debt to become due and payable prior to maturity. In addition, some of our debt instruments contain cross-default provisions, which could cause a default in a number of debt instruments if we default on only one debt instrument. Our current land development plans may require additional capital, which may not be available We anticipate that we will need to obtain additional financing as we fund our current land development projects. These funds may be obtained through public or private debt or equity financings, additional bank borrowings or from strategic alliances. We may not be successful in obtaining additional funds in a timely manner, on favorable terms or at all. Moreover, certain of our bank financing agreements contain provisions that limit the type and amount of debt we may incur in the future without our lenders’ consent. In addition, the availability of borrowed funds, especially for land acquisition and construction financing, may be greatly reduced, and lenders may require increased amounts of equity to be invested in a project by borrowers in connection with both new loans and the extension of existing loans. If we do not have access to additional capital, we may be required to delay, scale back or abandon some or all of our land development activities or reduce capital expenditures and the size of our operations. Our results may vary We historically have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, variability in operating results on a quarterly basis and from year to year. Factors expected to contribute to this variability include: • the cyclical nature of the real estate and construction industries, • prevailing interest rates and the availability of mortgage financing, • the uncertain timing of closings, • weather and the cost and availability of materials and labor, • competitive conditions, and • the timing of receipt of regulatory and other governmental approvals for construction of projects. The volume of sales contracts and closings typically varies from quarter to quarter depending on the stages of development of our projects. In the early stages of a project’s development (two to three years depending on the project), we incur significant start-up costs associated with, among other things, project design, land acquisition and development, construction and marketing expenses. Since revenues from sales of properties are generally recognized only upon the transfer of title at the closing of a sale, no revenue is 15 Table of Contents recognized during the early stages of a project unless land parcels or residential homesites are sold to other developers. Our costs and expenses were approximately $607.8 million, $500.6 million and $484.9 million during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Periodic sales of properties may be insufficient to fund operating expenses and the current trends we are experiencing with respect to new sales and cancellations in our homebuilding operations makes it likely that our level of sales over the next 12 months will be significantly below past levels. Further, if sales and other revenues are not adequate to cover costs and expenses, we will be required to seek a source of additional operating funds. Accordingly, our financial results will vary from community to community and from time to time. We may not successfully integrate acquired businesses into ours As part of our business strategy, we have in the past and expect to continue to evaluate acquisition prospects that would complement our existing business, or that might otherwise offer growth opportunities. Acquisitions entail numerous risks, including: • difficulties in assimilating acquired management and operations, • risks associated with achieving profitability, • the incurrence of significant due diligence expenses relating to acquisitions that are not completed, • unforeseen expenses, • integrating information technologies, • risks associated with entering new markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, • the potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations, and • risks associated with transferred assets and liabilities. We may not be able to acquire or profitably manage additional businesses, or to integrate successfully any acquired businesses, properties or personnel into our business, without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial difficulties. Our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to successfully realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition, we may be required to incur an impairment charge with respect to any goodwill recognized in the acquisition. For the year ended December 31, 2006, $1.3 million of goodwill recorded in connection with the Bowden acquisition consummated in 2004 was fully written off. In addition, we may incur debt or contingent liabilities in connection with future acquisitions, which could materially adversely affect our operating results. Our controlling shareholders have the voting power to control the outcome of any shareholder vote, except in limited circumstances As of December 31, 2006, BFC Financial Corporation owned 1,219,031 shares of our Class B common stock, which represented all of our issued and outstanding Class B common stock, and 2,074,240 shares, or approximately 11% of our issued and outstanding Class A common stock. In the aggregate these shares represent approximately 53% of our total voting power and approximately 17% of our total equity. Since the Class A common stock and Class B common stock vote as a single group on most matters, BFC Financial Corporation is in a position to control our company and elect a majority of our Board of Directors. Additionally, Alan B. Levan, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and John E. Abdo, our Vice Chairman, beneficially own approximately 35.1% and 17.6% of the shares of BFC Financial Corporation, respectively. As a consequence, Alan B. Levan and John E. Abdo effectively have the voting power to control the outcome of any shareholder vote of Levitt Corporation, except in those limited circumstances where Florida law mandates that the holders of our Class A common stock vote as a separate class. BFC Financial Corporation’s interests may conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. On January 31, 2007, we announced that we had entered into a definitive merger agreement whereby we will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of BFC. See — “Business-Recent Developments-BFC Merger.” 16 Table of Contents RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR OWNERSHIP STAKE IN BLUEGREEN CORPORATION We own approximately 31% of the outstanding common stock of Bluegreen Corporation, a publicly-traded corporation whose common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “BXG”. Although traded on the New York Stock Exchange, our shares may be deemed restricted stock, which would limit our ability to liquidate our investment if we chose to do so. While we have made a significant investment in Bluegreen Corporation, we do not expect to receive any dividends from the company for the foreseeable future. For the year ended December 31, 2006, our earnings from our investment in Bluegreen were $9.7 million, decreasing from $12.7 million in 2005, and from $13.1 million in 2004. At December 31, 2006, the book value of our investment in Bluegreen was $107.1 million. Accordingly, a significant portion of our earnings and book value are dependent upon Bluegreen’s ability to continue to generate earnings and maintain its market value. Further, declines in the market value of Bluegreen’s shares or other events that could impair the value of our holdings would have an adverse impact on the value of our investment. We annually review the investment in Bluegreen for impairment. We refer you to the public reports filed by Bluegreen with the Securities and Exchange Commission for information regarding Bluegreen. ITEM 1.B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 