ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS AND THE REAL ESTATE BUSINESS GENERALLY We engage in real estate activities which are speculative and involve a high degree of risk. The real estate industry is highly cyclical by nature, the current market is experiencing a significant decline and future market conditions are uncertain. Factors which adversely affect the real estate industry, many of which are beyond our control, include: • overbuilding or decreases in demand to acquire land; • the availability and cost of financing; • unfavorable interest rates and increases in inflation; • changes in national, regional and local economic conditions; • cost overruns, inclement weather, and labor and material shortages; 11 Table of Contents • the impact of present or future environmental legislation, zoning laws and other regulations; • availability, delays and costs associated with obtaining permits, approvals or licenses necessary to develop property; and • increases in real estate taxes, insurance and other local government fees. There has been a decline in the homebuilding industry over the past two years and if it continues it could adversely affect land development activities at our Land Division. For the past two years, the homebuilding industry has experienced a significant decline in demand for new homes and a significant oversupply of lots and homes available for sale. The trends in the homebuilding industry continue to be unfavorable. Demand has slowed as evidenced by fewer new orders and lower conversion rates, which has been exacerbated by increasing cancellation rates. The combination of the lower demand and higher inventories affects the amount of land that we are able to develop and sell in the future, as well as the prices at which we are able to sell the land. We cannot predict how long demand and other factors in the homebuilding industry will remain unfavorable, how active the market will be during the coming periods and how these factors will affect our Land Division. A substantial downturn or a further deterioration in the homebuilding industry will have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Because real estate investments are illiquid, a decline in the real estate market or in the economy in general could adversely impact our business and our cash flow. Real estate investments are generally illiquid. Companies that invest in real estate have a limited ability to vary their portfolio of real estate investments in response to changes in economic and other conditions. In addition, the market value of any or all of our properties or investments may decrease in the future. Moreover, we may not be able to timely dispose of an investment when we find dispositions advantageous or necessary, or complete the disposition of properties under contract to be sold, and any such dispositions may not provide proceeds in excess of the amount of our investment in the property or even in excess of the amount of any indebtedness secured by the property. Our inventory of real estate was $227.3 million at December 31, 2007. These land holdings subject us to a greater risk from declines in real estate values in our markets and are susceptible to impairment write-downs in the current real estate environment. Declines in real estate values or in the economy generally could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Natural disasters could have an adverse effect on our real estate operations. The Florida and South Carolina markets in which we operate are subject to the risks of natural disasters such as hurricanes and tropical storms. These natural disasters could have a material adverse effect on our business by causing the incurrence of uninsured losses, increased homebuyer insurance rates, delays in construction, and shortages and increased costs of labor and building materials. In addition to property damage, hurricanes may cause disruptions to our business operations. Approaching storms may require that operations be suspended in favor of storm preparation activities. After a storm has passed, construction-related resources such as sub-contracted labor and building materials are likely to be redeployed to hurricane recovery efforts. Governmental permitting and inspection activities may similarly be focused primarily on returning displaced residents to homes damaged by the storms rather than on new construction activity. Depending on the severity of the damage caused by the storms, disruptions such as these could last for several months. 12 Table of Contents A portion of our revenues from land sales in our master-planned communities are recognized for accounting purposes under the percentage of completion method, therefore, if our actual results differ from our assumptions, our profitability may be reduced. Under the percentage of completion method of accounting for recognizing revenue, we record revenue and cost of sales as work on the project progresses based on the percentage of actual work incurred compared to the total estimated costs. This method relies on estimates of total expected project costs. Revenue and cost estimates are reviewed and revised periodically as the work progresses. Adjustments are reflected in sales of real estate and cost of sales in the period when such estimates are revised. Variation of actual results compared to our estimated costs in these large master-planned communities could cause material changes to our net margins. Product liability litigation and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business may be costly which could adversely affect our business. Our commercial development business is subject to construction defect and product liability claims arising in the ordinary course of business. These claims are common in the commercial real estate industries and can be costly. We have, and many of our subcontractors have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensation and other business insurance. However, these insurance policies only protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims. In addition, because of the uncertainties inherent in these matters, we cannot provide reasonable assurance that our insurance coverage or our subcontractor arrangements will be adequate to address all warranty, construction defect and liability claims in the future. In addition, the costs of insuring against construction defect and product liability claims, if applicable, are high and the amount of coverage offered by insurance companies is also currently limited. There can be no assurance that this coverage will not be further restricted and become more costly. If we are not able to obtain adequate insurance against these claims, we may experience losses that could negatively impact our operating results. We are subject to governmental regulations that may limit our operations, increase our expenses or subject us to liability. We are subject to laws, ordinances and regulations of various federal, state and local governmental entities and agencies concerning, among other things: • environmental matters, including the presence of hazardous or toxic substances; • wetland preservation; • health and safety; • zoning, land use and other entitlements; • building design; and • density levels. In developing a project and building commercial properties, we may be required to obtain the approval of numerous governmental authorities regulating matters such as: • installation of utility services such as gas, electric, water and waste disposal; • the dedication of acreage for open space, parks and schools; • permitted land uses; and • the construction design, methods and materials used. These laws or regulations could, among other things: • establish building moratoriums; • limit the number of commercial properties that may be built; • change building codes and construction requirements affecting property under construction; • increase the cost of development and construction; and • delay development and construction. 13 Table of Contents We may also at times not be in compliance with all regulatory requirements. If we are not in compliance with regulatory requirements, we may be subject to penalties or we may be forced to incur significant expenses to cure any noncompliance. In addition, some of our land and some of the land that we may acquire have not yet received planning approvals or entitlements necessary for planned or future development. Failure to obtain entitlements necessary for further development of this land on a timely basis or to the extent desired may adversely affect our future results. Several governmental authorities have also imposed impact fees as a means of defraying the cost of providing governmental services to developing areas, and many of these fees have increased significantly during recent years. Building moratoriums and changes in governmental regulations may subject us to delays or increased costs of construction or prohibit development of our properties. We may be subject to delays or may be precluded from developing in certain communities because of building moratoriums or changes in statutes or rules that could be imposed in the future. The State of Florida and various counties have in the past and may in the future continue to declare moratoriums on the issuance of building permits and impose restrictions in areas where the infrastructure, such as roads, schools, parks, water and sewage treatment facilities and other public facilities, does not reach minimum standards. Additionally, certain counties in Florida, including counties where we are developing projects, have enacted more stringent building codes which have resulted in increased costs of construction. As a consequence, we may incur significant expenses in connection with complying with new regulatory requirements that we may not be able to pass on to buyers. We are subject to environmental laws and the cost of compliance could adversely affect our business. As a current or previous owner or operator of real property, we may be liable under federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in the property. These laws often impose liability whether or not we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The cost of investigating, remediating or removing such hazardous or toxic substances may be substantial. The presence of any such substance, or the failure promptly to remediate any such substance, may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property, to use the property for our intended purpose, or to borrow funds using the property as collateral. Increased insurance risk could negatively affect our business. Insurance and surety companies may take actions that could negatively affect our business, including increasing insurance premiums, requiring higher self-insured retentions and deductibles, requiring additional collateral or covenants on surety bonds, reducing limits, restricting coverages, imposing exclusions, and refusing to underwrite certain risks and classes of business. Any of these actions may adversely affect our ability to obtain appropriate insurance coverage at reasonable costs which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We utilize community development district and special assessment district bonds to fund development costs and we will be responsible for assessments until the underlying property is sold. We establish community development district and special assessment district bonds to access tax-exempt bond financing to fund infrastructure development at our master-planned communities. We are responsible for any assessed amounts until the underlying property is sold. We will continue to be responsible for the annual assessments if the property is never sold. Accordingly, if recent negative trends in the homebuilding industry do not improve, and we are forced to hold our land inventory longer than originally projected, we would be forced to pay a higher portion of annual assessments on property which is subject to assessments. We could be required to pay down a portion of the bonds in the event our entitlements were to decrease as to the number of residential units and/or commercial space that can be built on a parcel(s) encumbered by the bonds. In addition, Core Communities has guaranteed payments for assessments under the district bonds in Tradition, Florida which would require funding if future assessments to be allocated to property owners are insufficient to repay the bonds. 14 Table of Contents The availability of tax-exempt bond financing to fund infrastructure development at our master-planned communities may be affected by recent disruptions in credit markets, including the municipal bond market, by general economic conditions and by fluctuations in the real estate market. If we are not able to access this type of financing, we would be forced to obtain substitute financing, which may not be available on terms favorable to the Company, or at all. If we are not able to obtain financing for infrastructure development, Core would be forced to use our own funds or delay development activity at the master-planned communities. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH LEVITT AND SONS’ BANKRUPTCY FILING We cannot predict the effect that the Chapter 11 Cases will have on Levitt and Sons’ business and creditors or on Levitt Corporation. There is no assurance that Levitt and Sons will be able to develop, prosecute, confirm and consummate the Plan and that the Plan will be accepted. Third parties may seek and obtain Bankruptcy Court approval to propose and confirm the Plan. As a result, there is no assurance that the creditors will not seek to assert claims against Levitt Corporation or any of its subsidiaries other than Levitt and Sons, whether or not such claims have any merit and the risk that Levitt Corporation’s or any such subsidiary’s assets become subject to or included in Levitt and Sons’ bankruptcy case. In addition, Levitt Corporation files a consolidated federal income tax return, which means that the taxable income or tax losses of Levitt and Sons were included in the Company’s federal income tax return. At December 31, 2007, Levitt Corporation had a federal income tax receivable of $27.4 million as a result of losses incurred, which is anticipated to be collected upon filing the 2007 consolidated U.S. federal income tax return. The Creditors’ Committee of the Chapter 11 Cases has advised that they believe that the creditors are entitled to share in an unstated amount of the refund. At this time, it is not possible to predict the effect that the Chapter 11 Cases will have on Levitt Corporation or whether it will adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Levitt and Sons’ bankruptcy and the publicity surrounding its filing may adversely affect Levitt Corporation and its subsidiaries other than Levitt and Sons. The businesses and relationships we had at Levitt and Sons may also be relationships we have at our other subsidiaries. These relationships could be affected by the Chapter 11 Cases of Levitt and Sons and it could materially affect our ability to conduct business with customers, suppliers and employees in the future. Levitt and Sons had surety bonds on most of their projects some, of which were subject to indemnity by Levitt Corporation. Levitt and Sons had $33.3 million in surety bonds relating to its ongoing projects at the time of the filing of the Chapter 11 Cases. In the event that these obligations are drawn and paid by the surety, Levitt Corporation could be responsible for up to $12.0 million plus costs and expenses in accordance with the surety indemnity agreement for these instruments. As of December 31, 2007, we recorded $1.8 million in surety bonds accrual at Levitt Corporation related to certain bonds where management considers it probable that the Company will be required to reimburse the surety under the indemnity agreement. It is unclear given the uncertainty involved in the Chapter 11 Cases whether and to what extent the outstanding surety bonds of Levitt and Sons will be drawn and the extent to which Levitt Corporation may be responsible for additional amounts beyond this accrual. It is unlikely that Levitt Corporation would have the ability to receive any repayment, assets or other consideration as recovery of any amount it is required to pay. If losses on additional surety bonds are identified, we will need to take additional charges associated with Levitt Corporation’s exposure under our indemnities, and this may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents Levitt Corporation’s outstanding advances due from Levitt and Sons may not be repaid. Levitt Corporation has deconsolidated Levitt and Sons from its consolidated financial statements and reflects Levitt and Sons as a cost method investment as of December 31, 2007. At the time of deconsolidation, November 9, 2007, Levitt Corporation had a negative investment in Levitt and Sons of $123.0 million and there were outstanding advances due from Levitt and Sons of $67.8 million at Levitt Corporation resulting in a net negative investment of $55.2 million. Since the Chapter 11 Cases were filed, Levitt Corporation has also incurred certain administrative costs in the amount of $1.4 million related to Post Petition Services. The payment by Levitt and Sons of its outstanding advances and the Post Petition Services expenses are subject to the risks inherent to creditors in the Chapter 11 Cases. Levitt and Sons may not have sufficient assets to repay Levitt Corporation for advances made to Levitt and Sons or the Post Petition Services and it is likely that some, if not all, of these amounts will not be recovered. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMPANY Our outstanding debt instruments impose restrictions on our operations and activities and could adversely affect our financial condition. At December 31, 2007, our consolidated debt was approximately $274.8 million of which $137.1 million relates to the Land Division. Debt associated with assets held for sale was $79.0 million. Certain loans which provide the primary financing for Tradition, Florida and Tradition Hilton Head have an annual appraisal and re-margining requirement. These provisions may require Core Communities, in circumstances where the value of its real estate securing these loans declines, to pay down a portion of the principal amount of the loan to bring the loan within specified minimum loan-to-value ratios. Accordingly, should land prices decline, reappraisals could result in significant future re-margining payments. In addition, all of our outstanding debt instruments require us to comply with certain financial covenants. Further, one of our debt instruments contains cross-default provisions, which could cause a default in this debt instrument if we default on other debt instruments. If we fail to comply with any of these restrictions or covenants, the holders of the applicable debt could cause our debt to become due and payable prior to maturity. These accelerations or significant re-margining payments could require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash and cash flow from operations to payment of or on our debt and reduce our ability to use our cash for other purposes. Certain of our borrowings require us to repay specified amounts upon a sale of a portion of the property securing the debt. The borrowings may require additional principal payments in the event that the timing and the amount of sales are below those agreed to at the inception of the borrowing. Our anticipated minimum debt payment obligations in 2008 total approximately $12.2 million, of which $8.9 million relates to assets held for sale. These amounts do not include any amounts due upon a sale of the collateral, amounts due as a result of sales below expectations or re-margining payments that could be required in the event that property serving as collateral becomes impaired. Core is subject to provisions in its borrowing agreement that require additional principal payments, known as curtailment payments, in the event that sales, within a specific timeframe, are below those agreed to at the inception of the borrowing. In the event that agreed upon sales targets are not met in Tradition Hilton Head, total curtailment payments during 2008 could amount to $34.2 million. In January 2008, a $14.9 million curtailment payment was paid and an additional $19.3 million would be due in June 2008 if actual sales continue to be below the contractual requirements of the development loan. Unfavorable current trends in the homebuilding industry could result in us holding property longer than projected which would increase the likelihood that sales of property would be below levels required by our lenders. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and future borrowings may not be available under our existing credit facilities or any other financing sources in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity, which we may not be able to do on favorable terms or at all. Recent disruptions in the credit and capital markets could make it more difficult for us to obtain future financing. Our ability to meet our debt service and other obligations, to refinance our indebtedness or to fund planned capital expenditures will depend upon our future performance. We are engaged in businesses that are substantially affected by changes in economic cycles. Our revenues and earnings vary with the level of general economic activity in the real estate market and are, therefore, subject to many factors outside of our control. See risk factor below entitled “Our results may vary.” 16 Table of Contents Our current land development plans may require additional capital, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. We may need to obtain additional financing as we fund our current land development projects and pursue new investments. These funds may be obtained through public or private debt or equity financings, additional bank borrowings or from strategic alliances. We may not be successful in obtaining additional funds in a timely manner, on favorable terms or at all, especially in light of the current adverse conditions in the capital and credit markets and the adverse conditions in municipal bond markets which impact our ability to access tax-exempt bond financing. Moreover, certain of our bank financing agreements contain provisions that limit the type and amount of debt we may incur in the future without our lenders’ consent. If we do not have access to additional capital, we may be required to delay, scale back or abandon some or all of our land development activities and we may not be able to pursue new investments. In addition, we may need to reduce capital expenditures and the size of our operations. There is no assurance that we will have sufficient funds to continue to develop our master-planned communities or pursue new investments as currently contemplated without additional financing or equity investment. Our results may vary. We historically have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, variability in operating results on a quarterly basis and from year to year. Factors expected to contribute to this variability include: • the cyclical nature of the real estate industry; • prevailing interest rates and the availability of mortgage financing; • weather; • cost and availability of materials and labor; • competitive conditions; • timing of sales of land; • the timing of receipt of regulatory and other governmental approvals for land development projects; and • the timing of the sale of our commercial leasing operations. Margins in our Land Division are subject to significant volatility. Due to the nature and size of our individual land transactions, our Land Division results are subject to significant volatility. Historically, land sale revenues have been sporadic and have fluctuated dramatically and margins on land sales and the many factors which impact the margin may not remain at the current levels given the current downturn in the real estate markets where we own properties. Margins will fluctuate based upon changing sales prices and costs attributable to the land sold. Recent declines in the value of residential land, especially in Florida where Core’s Tradition, Florida community is located, could significantly adversely impact our margins. If the real estate markets deteriorate further or if the current downturn is prolonged, we may not be able to sell land at prices above our carrying cost or even in amounts necessary to repay our indebtedness. In addition to the impact of economic and market factors, the sales price and margin of land sold varies depending upon: the location; the parcel size; whether the parcel is sold as raw land, partially developed land or individually developed lots; the degree to which the land is entitled; and whether the designated use of land is residential or commercial. In addition, our ability to realize margins may be affected by circumstances beyond our control, including: • shortages or increases in prices of construction materials; • natural disasters in the areas in which we operate; • lack of availability of adequate utility infrastructure and services; and • our need to rely on local subcontractors who may not be adequately capitalized or insured. 17 Table of Contents Any of these circumstances could give rise to delays in the start or completion of, or increase the cost of, developing our master-planned communities. We compete with other real estate developers, both regionally and nationally, for labor as well as raw materials, and the competition for materials has recently become global. Increased costs in labor and materials could cause increases in construction costs. In addition, the cost of sales of real estate is dependent upon the original cost of the land acquired, the timing of the acquisition of the land, and the amount of land development, interest and real estate tax costs capitalized to the particular land parcel during active development. Future margins will continue to vary based on these and other market factors. When commercial leasing projects become available for sale, they may not yield anticipated returns, which could harm our operating results, reduce cash flow, or cause management to choose not to sell certain commercial assets. A component of our business strategy is the development of commercial properties and assets for sale. These developments may not be as successful as expected due to the commercial leasing related risks discussed below, as well as the risks associated with real estate development generally, and the timeline involved in development and leasing. Development of commercial projects involve the risk of the significant time lag between commencement and completion of the project which subjects us to greater risks due to fluctuation in the general economy, failure or inability to obtain construction or permanent financing on favorable terms, inability to achieve projected rental rates, anticipated pace that we will be able to lease new tenants, higher than estimated construction costs, including labor and material costs, and possible delay in completion of the project because of a number of factors, including weather, labor disruptions, construction delays or delays in receipt of zoning or other regulatory approvals, or man-made or natural disasters. Significant changes in economic conditions could adversely affect prospective tenants and our ability to lease newly developed properties and could result in our being forced to hold these properties for a longer period of time. We are dependent upon certain key tenants in our commercial developments and decisions made by these tenants or adverse developments in the business of these tenants could have a negative impact on our financial condition. We own commercial real estate centers which are supported by “anchor” tenants which, due to size, reputation or other factors, are particularly responsible for drawing other tenants and shoppers to our centers in certain cases. We are subject to the risk that certain of these anchor tenants may be unable to make their lease payments or may decline to extend a lease upon its expiration. In addition, an anchor tenant may decide that a particular store is unprofitable and close its operations, and, while the tenant may continue to make rental payments, its failure to occupy its premises could have an adverse effect on the property. A lease termination by an anchor tenant or a failure by that anchor tenant to occupy the premises could result in lease terminations or reductions in rent by other tenants in the same shopping center. Vacated anchor tenant space also tends to adversely affect the entire shopping center because of the loss of the departed anchor tenant’s power to draw customers to the center. We may not be able to quickly re-lease vacant space on favorable terms, if at all. Any of these developments could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. It may be difficult and costly to rent vacant space and space which may become vacant in future periods. Our goal is to improve the performance of our properties by leasing available space and re-leasing vacated space. However, we may not be able to maintain our overall occupancy levels. Our ability to continue to lease or re-lease vacant space in our commercial properties will be affected by many factors, including our properties’ locations, current market conditions and the provisions of the leases we enter into with the tenants at our properties. In fact, many of the factors which could cause our current tenants to vacate their space could also make it more difficult for us to release that space. The failure to lease or to re-lease vacant space on satisfactory terms could harm our operating results. 18 Table of Contents If we are able to re-lease vacated space, there is no assurance that rental rates will be equal to or in excess of current rental rates. In addition, we may incur substantial costs in obtaining new tenants, including brokerage commission fees paid by us in connection with new leases or lease renewals, and the cost of making leasehold improvements. The loss of the services of our key management and personnel could adversely affect our business Our ability to successfully implement our business strategy will depend on our ability to attract and retain experienced and knowledgeable management and other professional staff. We currently have an Acting Chief Financial Officer and are in the process of seeking to recruit a permanent replacement. There is no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining an experienced and knowledgeable Chief Financial Officer or other key management personnel. Our future acquisitions may reduce our earnings, require us to obtain additional financing and expose us to additional risks. Our business strategy includes investing in and acquiring diverse operating companies and some of these investments and acquisitions may be material. While we will seek investments and acquisitions primarily in companies that provide opportunities for growth with seasoned and experienced management teams, we may not be successful in identifying these opportunities. Further, investments or acquisitions that we do complete may not prove to be successful. Acquisitions may expose us to additional risks and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and may: • fail to accomplish our strategic objectives; • not perform as expected; and/or • expose us to the risks of the business that we acquire. In addition, we will likely face competition in making investments or acquisitions which could increase the costs associated with the investment or acquisition. Our investments or acquisitions could initially reduce our per share earnings and add significant amortization expense or intangible asset charges. Since our acquisition strategy involves holding investments for the foreseeable future and because we do not expect to generate significant excess cash flow from operations, we may rely on additional debt or equity financing to implement our acquisition strategy. The issuance of debt will result in additional leverage which could limit our operating flexibility, and the issuance of equity could result in additional dilution to our then-current shareholders. In addition, such financing could consist of equity securities which have rights, preferences or privileges senior to our Class A common stock. If we do require additional financing in the future, there is no assurance that it will be available on favorable terms, if at all. If we fail to obtain the required financing, we would be required to curtail or delay our acquisition plans or to liquidate certain of our assets. Additionally, we do not intend to seek shareholder approval of any investments or acquisitions unless required by law or regulation. Our controlling shareholders have the voting power to control the outcome of any shareholder vote, except in limited circumstances. As of December 31, 2007, BFC Financial Corporation (“BFC”) owned 1,219,031 shares of our Class B common stock, which represented all of our issued and outstanding Class B common stock, and 18,676,955 shares, or approximately 19.7%, of our issued and outstanding Class A common stock. In the aggregate these shares represent approximately 20.7% of our total equity and, excluding the 6,145,582 shares of our Class A common stock that BFC has agreed, subject to certain exceptions, not to vote in accordance with the Letter Agreement described in Item 8. — Financial Statements — Note 16, these shares represent approximately 54.0% of our total voting power. Since the Class A common stock and Class B common stock vote as a single group on most matters, BFC is in a position to control our company and 19 Table of Contents elect a majority of our Board of Directors. Additionally, Alan B. Levan, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and John E. Abdo, our Vice Chairman, beneficially own approximately 22.6% and 14.0% of the shares of BFC, respectively. Collectively, these shares represent approximately 73.2% of BFC’s total voting power. As a consequence, Alan B. Levan and John E. Abdo effectively have the voting power to control the outcome of any shareholder vote of Levitt Corporation, except in those limited circumstances where Florida law mandates that the holders of our Class A common stock vote as a separate class. BFC’s interests may conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR OWNERSHIP STAKE IN BLUEGREEN CORPORATION We own approximately 31% of the outstanding common stock of Bluegreen Corporation, a publicly-traded corporation whose common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “BXG”. Although traded on the New York Stock Exchange, our shares of Bluegreen’s common stock may be deemed restricted stock, which would limit our ability to liquidate our investment if we chose to do so. While we have made a significant investment in Bluegreen Corporation, we do not expect to receive any dividends from the company for the foreseeable future. For the year ended December 31, 2007, our earnings from our investment in Bluegreen were $10.3 million, compared to $9.7 million in 2006, and $12.7 million in 2005. At December 31, 2007, the book value of our investment in Bluegreen was $116.0 million. A significant portion of our earnings and book value are dependent upon Bluegreen’s ability to continue to generate earnings and maintain its market value. Further, declines in the market value of Bluegreen’s shares or other events that could impair the value of our holdings would have an adverse impact on the value of our investment. We review our investment in Bluegreen for impairment on an annual basis or as events or circumstances warrant for other than temporary declines in value. Bluegreen recently announced its intention to pursue a rights offering to its shareholders of up to $100 million of its common stock and we currently intend to participate in the rights offering. We refer you to the public reports filed by Bluegreen with the Securities and Exchange Commission for information regarding Bluegreen. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 