ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATING TO OUR REAL ESTATE OPERATIONS Through Core Communities and Carolina Oak, we engage in real estate activities which are speculative and involve a high degree of risk. The real estate industry is highly cyclical by nature. The current market is experiencing a significant decline, and future market conditions are uncertain. There are many factors which affect the real estate industry, and many of these factors are beyond our control, including: • overbuilding or decreases in demand to acquire land; • the availability and cost of financing; • unfavorable interest rates and increases in inflation; • changes in national, regional and local economic conditions; • cost overruns, inclement weather, and labor and material shortages; • the impact of present or future environmental legislation, zoning laws and other regulations; • availability, delays and costs associated with obtaining permits, approvals or licenses necessary to develop property; and • increases in real estate taxes, insurance and other local government fees. The real estate market has experienced a significant downturn, and the duration and ultimate severity of the downturn is uncertain. A continued deterioration of economic conditions will adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The downturn in the real estate market, which is now in its fourth year, has become one of the most severe in U.S. history. This downturn, which resulted from a decline in consumer confidence, decline in real estate prices and an oversupply of real estate available for sale, has been exacerbated by, among other things, a decline in the overall economy, increasing unemployment, fear of job loss and a decline in 11 Table of Contents the securities and credit markets. The government’s legislative and administrative measures aimed at restoring liquidity to the credit markets and improving conditions in the real estate markets has only recently begun and there is no indication yet whether these measures have or will effectively stabilize prices and real estate values or restore consumer confidence and increase demand in the real estate markets. As a result of this downturn, and specifically the adverse impact that the combination of the lower demand and higher inventories has had on the amount of land that we are able to develop and sell and the prices at which we are able to sell the land, our operating results and financial condition have been adversely affected. We cannot predict the duration or ultimate severity of the current challenging conditions, nor can we provide assurance that our responses to the current downturn or the government’s attempts to address the troubles in the economy will be successful. If these conditions persist or continue to worsen, they will further adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Because real estate investments are illiquid, the downturn in the real estate market and in the economy in general has had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our business and cash flow. Real estate investments are generally illiquid. Like other companies that invest in real estate, we have a limited ability to vary our portfolio of real estate investments in response to changes in economic and other conditions. In addition, as a result of the sustained downturn in the real estate market, and in the economy in general, the estimated market value of our real estate properties has decreased and may continue to decrease in the future. Moreover, we may not be able to timely dispose of properties when we find dispositions advantageous or necessary, or complete the disposition of properties under contract to be sold, and any such dispositions may not provide proceeds in excess of the amount of our investment in the property or even in excess of the amount of any indebtedness secured by the property. As a result, we are susceptible to the risks associated with further declines in real estate values, including the risk that we may be required to record additional impairment write-downs with respect to our real estate inventory in the future if the current real estate environment does not improve or if the market value of our real estate properties otherwise continues to decline. We had $241.3 million of real estate inventory at December 31, 2008. The commercial real estate market has been adversely affected by the current economic and credit environment. Economic conditions may make it more difficult to achieve projected rental and occupancy rates on Core’s commercial leasing projects, which may adversely impact the net operating income of the projects. The risks relating to Core’s commercial leasing projects include, without limitation: • the risk that a significant tenant or a number of tenants may file for bankruptcy protection, creating the possibility that past due rents may never be recovered; • the risk that leases with certain existing tenants may become overly burdensome to the lessee due to reduced business activity, and lease concessions and modifications may be necessary to avoid defaults; • the risk that the current adverse economic conditions and limited availability of credit may continue or deteriorate further, causing market capitalization rates on commercial properties to increase beyond present levels, thus reducing the value at which commercial projects can be sold; • the risk that net operating income at the commercial leasing projects may not be sufficient to meet certain debt service coverage ratio requirements, which would result in requirements for additional principal curtailment payments in order to bring the loans into compliance; and • the risk that vacant space will take longer to lease and that rental rates will be lower than projected or necessary to operate the project profitably. 12 Table of Contents Commercial leasing projects may not yield anticipated returns, which could harm our operating results, reduce cash flow, or the ability to sell commercial assets. A component of our business strategy is the development of commercial properties and assets for sale. These developments may not be as successful as expected due to the commercial leasing related risks discussed herein, as well as the risks associated with real estate development generally. Additionally, development of commercial projects involves the risk associated with the significant time lag between commencement and completion of the project. This time lag subjects us to greater risks relating to fluctuations in the general economy, our ability to obtain construction or permanent financing on favorable terms, if at all, our ability to achieve projected rental rates, the pace that we will be able to lease new tenants, higher than estimated construction costs (including labor and material costs), and delays in the completion of projects because of, among other factors, inclement weather, labor disruptions, construction delays or delays in receiving zoning or other regulatory approvals, or man-made or natural disasters. We utilize community development district and special assessment district bonds to fund development costs, and we will be responsible for assessments until the underlying property is sold. We establish community development district and special assessment district bonds to access tax-exempt bond financing to fund infrastructure development at Core’s master-planned communities. We are responsible for any assessed amounts until the underlying property is sold. Accordingly, if we continue to hold certain of our properties longer than originally projected (as a result of a continued downturn in the real estate markets or otherwise), we may be required to pay a higher portion of annual assessments on such properties. In addition, we could be required to pay down a portion of the bonds in the event our entitlements were to decrease as to the number of residential units and/or commercial space that can be built on the properties encumbered by the bonds. Moreover, Core has guaranteed payments for assessments under the district bonds in Tradition, Florida which would require funding if future assessments to be allocated to property owners are insufficient to repay the bonds. The availability of tax-exempt bond financing to fund infrastructure development at Core’s master-planned communities may be adversely impacted by recent disruptions in credit markets, including the municipal bond market, by general economic conditions and by fluctuations in the real estate market. If we are not able to access this type of financing, we would be forced to obtain substitute financing, and there is no assurance that we would be able to obtain substitute financing on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are not able to obtain financing for infrastructure development, Core would be forced to use its own funds or delay development activity at its master-planned communities. Core’s results are subject to significant volatility. Due to the nature and size of Core’s individual land transactions, Core’s results and our consolidated results have historically been subject to significant volatility. Land sale revenues have been sporadic and have fluctuated dramatically based upon, among other factors, changing sales prices and costs attributable to the land sold. Due to the current downturn in the real estate market, margins on land sales may continue to decline and there is no assurance that they will return to prior levels. If the real estate markets deteriorate further or if the current downturn is prolonged, we may not be able to sell land at prices above our carrying cost or even in amounts necessary to repay our indebtedness. In addition to the impact of economic and market factors, the sales price and margin of land sold varies depending upon: the location; the parcel size; whether the parcel is sold as raw land, partially developed land or individually developed lots; the degree to which the land is entitled; and whether the designated use of land is residential or commercial. In addition, our ability to realize margins may be affected by circumstances beyond our control, including: • shortages or increases in prices of construction materials; • natural disasters in the areas in which we operate; 13 Table of Contents • lack of availability of adequate utility infrastructure and services; and • our need to rely on local subcontractors who may not be adequately capitalized or insured. Any of these circumstances could give rise to delays in the start or completion of development at, or increase the cost of developing, Core’s master-planned communities. We compete with other real estate developers, both regionally and nationally, for labor as well as raw materials, and the competition for materials has recently become global. Increased costs in labor and materials could cause increases in construction costs. In addition, the cost of sales of real estate is dependent upon the original cost of the land acquired, the timing of the acquisition of the land, and the amount of land development, interest and real estate tax costs capitalized to the particular land parcel during active development. Future margins will continue to vary based on these and other market factors. We are dependent upon certain key tenants in our commercial developments, and decisions made by these tenants or adverse developments in the business of these tenants could have a negative impact on our financial condition. Our commercial real estate centers are supported by anchor tenants which, due to size, reputation or other factors, are particularly responsible for drawing other tenants and shoppers to our centers in certain cases. We are subject to the risk that certain of these anchor tenants may be unable to make their lease payments or may decline to extend a lease upon its expiration. In addition, an anchor tenant may decide that a particular store is unprofitable and close its operations, and, while the anchor tenant may continue to make rental payments, its failure to occupy its premises could have an adverse effect on the property. A lease termination by an anchor tenant or a failure by that anchor tenant to occupy the premises could result in lease terminations or reductions in rent by other tenants in the same shopping center. Vacated anchor tenant space also tends to adversely affect the entire shopping center because of the loss of the departed anchor tenant’s power to draw customers to the center. We may not be able to quickly re-lease vacant space on favorable terms, if at all. Any of these developments could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. It may be difficult and costly to rent vacant space and space which may become vacant in future periods. Our goal is to improve the performance of our properties by leasing available space and re-leasing vacated space. However, we may not be able to maintain our overall occupancy levels. Our ability to continue to lease or re-lease vacant space in our commercial properties will be affected by many factors, including our properties’ locations, current market conditions and the provisions of the leases we enter into with the tenants at our properties. In fact, many of the factors which could cause our current tenants to vacate their space could also make it more difficult for us to re-lease that space. The failure to lease or to re-lease vacant space on satisfactory terms could harm our operating results. If we are able to re-lease vacated space, there is no assurance that rental rates will be equal to or in excess of current rental rates. In addition, we may incur substantial costs in obtaining new tenants, including brokerage commission fees paid by us in connection with new leases or lease renewals, and the cost of leasehold improvements. Additional adverse changes in economic conditions where we conduct our operations could further reduce the demand for real estate and, as a result, could further adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Adverse changes in national, regional and local economic conditions, especially in Florida and to a lesser extent South Carolina where our operations are concentrated, have had and may continue to have a negative impact on our business. Continued adverse changes in, among other things, employment levels, job growth, consumer confidence, interest rates and population growth, or a continued oversupply of land for sale may further reduce demand and depress real estate prices, which, in turn, could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents If prospective purchasers of our inventory and tenants are not able to obtain suitable financing, our results of operations may further decline. Our results of operations are dependent in part on the ability of prospective purchasers of our real estate inventory and prospective commercial tenants to secure financing. The recent deterioration of the credit markets and the related tightening of credit standards may impact the ability of prospective purchasers and tenants to secure financing on acceptable terms, if at all. This may, in turn, negatively impact land sales and long-term rental and occupancy rates as well as the value of Core’s commercial properties. Natural disasters could have an adverse effect on our real estate operations. The Florida and South Carolina markets in which we operate are subject to the risks of natural disasters such as hurricanes and tropical storms. These natural disasters could have a material adverse effect on our business by causing the incurrence of uninsured losses, increased insurance rates, including homebuyer insurance rates, delays in construction, and shortages and increased costs of labor and building materials. In addition to property damage, hurricanes may cause disruptions to our business operations. Approaching storms may require that operations be suspended in favor of storm preparation activities. After a storm has passed, construction-related resources such as sub-contracted labor and building materials are likely to be redeployed to hurricane recovery efforts. Governmental permitting and inspection activities may similarly be focused primarily on returning displaced residents to homes damaged by the storms rather than on new construction activity. Depending on the severity of the damage caused by the storms, disruptions such as these could last for several months. A portion of our revenues from land sales in Core’s master-planned communities are recognized for accounting purposes under the percentage of completion method. Therefore, if our actual results differ from our assumptions, our profitability may be reduced. Under the percentage of completion method of accounting for recognizing revenue, we record revenue and cost of sales as work on the project progresses based on the percentage of actual work incurred compared to the total estimated costs. This method relies on estimates of total expected project costs. Revenue and cost estimates are reviewed and revised periodically as the work progresses. Adjustments are reflected in sales of real estate and cost of sales in the period when such estimates are revised. Variation of actual results compared to our estimated costs in Core’s master-planned communities could cause material changes to our net margins. Product liability litigation and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business may be costly. Our commercial real estate development business is subject to construction defect and product liability claims arising in the ordinary course of business. These claims are common in the commercial real estate industries and can be costly. We have, and many of our subcontractors have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensation and other business insurance. However, these insurance policies only protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims. In addition, because of the uncertainties inherent in these matters, we cannot provide reasonable assurance that our insurance coverage or our subcontractor arrangements will be adequate to address all warranty, construction defect and liability claims in the future. In addition, the costs of insuring against construction defect and product liability claims, if applicable, are substantial and the amount of coverage offered by insurance companies is also currently limited. There can be no assurance that this coverage will not be further restricted and become more costly. If we are not able to obtain adequate insurance against these claims, we may experience losses that could negatively impact our operating results. 15 Table of Contents We are subject to governmental regulations that may limit our operations, increase our expenses or subject us to liability. We are subject to laws, ordinances and regulations of various federal, state and local governmental entities and agencies concerning, among other things: • environmental matters, including the presence of hazardous or toxic substances; • wetland preservation; • health and safety; • zoning, land use and other entitlements; • building design; and • density levels. In developing a project and building commercial properties, we may be required to obtain the approval of numerous governmental authorities regulating matters such as: • the installation of utility services such as gas, electric, water and waste disposal; • the dedication of acreage for open space, parks and schools; • permitted land uses; and • the construction design, methods and materials used. These laws or regulations could, among other things: • establish building moratoriums; • limit the number of commercial properties that may be built; • change building codes and construction requirements affecting property under construction; • increase the cost of development and construction; and • delay development and construction. We may also at times not be in compliance with all regulatory requirements. If we are not in compliance with regulatory requirements, we may be subject to penalties or we may be forced to incur significant expenses to cure any noncompliance. In addition, some of our land has not yet received planning approvals or entitlements necessary for development. Failure to obtain entitlements necessary for land development on a timely basis or to the extent desired may adversely affect our operating results. Several governmental authorities have also imposed impact fees as a means of defraying the cost of providing governmental services to developing areas, and many of these fees have increased significantly during recent years. Building moratoriums and changes in governmental regulations may subject us to delays or increased costs of construction or prohibit development of our properties. We may be subject to delays or may be precluded from developing in certain communities because of building moratoriums or changes in statutes or rules that could be imposed in the future. The State of Florida and various counties have in the past and may in the future continue to declare moratoriums on the issuance of building permits and impose restrictions in areas where the infrastructure, such as roads, schools, parks, water and sewage treatment facilities and other public facilities, does not reach minimum standards. Additionally, certain counties in Florida, including counties where we are developing projects, have enacted more stringent building codes which have resulted in increased costs of construction. As a consequence, we may incur significant expenses in connection with complying with new regulatory requirements that we may not be able to pass on to purchasers or tenants. 16 Table of Contents We are subject to environmental laws and the cost of compliance could adversely affect our business. As a current or previous owner or operator of real property, we may be liable under federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in the property. These laws often impose liability whether or not we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The cost of investigating, remediating or removing such hazardous or toxic substances may be substantial. The presence of any such substance, or the failure to promptly remediate any such substance, may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property, to use the property for its intended purpose, or, if we deem necessary or desirable in the future, to borrow funds using the property as collateral. Increased insurance risk could negatively affect our business. Insurance and surety companies may take actions that could negatively affect our business, including increasing insurance premiums, requiring higher self-insured retentions and deductibles, requiring additional collateral or covenants on surety bonds, reducing limits, restricting coverages, imposing exclusions, and refusing to underwrite certain risks and classes of business. Any of these actions may adversely affect our ability to obtain appropriate insurance coverage at reasonable costs which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our results may vary. Like other companies engaged in real estate activities, we historically have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, variability in operating results on a quarterly basis and from year to year. Factors expected to contribute to this variability include: • the cyclical nature of the real estate industry; • prevailing interest rates and the availability of financing; • weather; • cost and availability of materials and labor; • competitive conditions; • timing of sales of land; • the timing of receipt of regulatory and other governmental approvals for land development projects; and • the timing of the sale of our commercial leasing operations. Levitt and Sons had surety bonds on most of their projects, some of which were subject to indemnity by Woodbridge. Levitt and Sons had $33.3 million in surety bonds relating to its ongoing projects at the time of the filing of the Chapter 11 Cases. In the event that these obligations are drawn and paid by the surety, Woodbridge could be responsible for up to $11.7 million plus costs and expenses in accordance with the surety indemnity agreement for these instruments. As of December 31, 2008, we had a $1.1 million in surety bonds accrual at Woodbridge related to certain bonds where management considers it probable that the Company will be required to reimburse the surety under the indemnity agreement. It is unclear given the uncertainty involved in the Chapter 11 Cases whether and to what extent the outstanding surety bonds of Levitt and Sons will be drawn and the extent to which Woodbridge may be responsible for additional amounts beyond this accrual. It is unlikely that Woodbridge would have the ability to receive any repayment, assets or other consideration as recovery of any amount it is required to pay. If losses on additional surety bonds are identified, we will need to take additional charges associated with Woodbridge’s exposure under our indemnities, and this may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents RISKS RELATING TO OUR OTHER ACTIVITIES AND TO OUR COMPANY, GENERALLY Our outstanding debt instruments impose restrictions on our operations and activities and could adversely affect our financial condition. At December 31, 2008, our consolidated debt was approximately $350.0 million, of which $215.3 million related to Core Communities. Certain loans which provide the primary financing for Tradition, Florida and Tradition Hilton Head have annual appraisal and re-margining requirements. These provisions may require Core Communities, in circumstances where the value of its real estate securing these loans declines, to pay down a portion of the principal amount of the loans to bring the loans within specified minimum loan-to-value ratios. Accordingly, should land prices decline to the point at which the loans fall below their specified minimum loan-to-value ratios, reappraisals could result in significant future re-margining payments. In addition, all of our outstanding debt instruments require us to comply with certain financial covenants. Further, one of our debt instruments contains cross-default provisions, which could cause a default on this debt instrument if we default on other debt instruments. If we fail to comply with any of these restrictions or covenants, the holders of the applicable debt could cause our debt to become due and payable prior to maturity. These accelerations or significant re-margining payments could require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash and cash flow from operations to payment of or on our debt and reduce our ability to use our cash for other purposes. Core’s loan agreements generally require repayment of specified amounts upon a sale of a portion of the property collateralizing the debt. Core also is subject to provisions in some of its loan agreements that may require additional principal payments, known as curtailment payments. Core made curtailment payments totaling approximately $19.9 million during 2008. Additional curtailment payments may be required in the future if the unfavorable current trends in the real estate market continue. For 2009, our anticipated minimum principal debt payment obligations total approximately $3.6 million, assuming the exercise of all loan extensions available at our discretion, in each case exclusive of any re-margining payments that could be required in the event that property serving as collateral becomes impaired, curtailment payments which may be required in the event sales are below contractual minimums and any additional amounts which may become due upon a sale of the property securing the loan. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and future borrowings may not be available under our existing credit facilities or any other financing sources in an amount sufficient, to enable us to service our indebtedness or fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity, which, due to, among other factors, the recent disruptions in the credit and capital markets, we may not be able to do on favorable terms or at all. Core is engaging a restructuring firm to review its cash flow models and analyze the terms of its outstanding indebtedness, and, where appropriate, to enter into discussions with its lenders relating to a restructuring of Core’s debt. If Core is not successful in restructuring its debt, it may not have sufficient resources to timely meet its obligations. Core’s obligations are independent of Woodbridge and Woodbridge is not legally obligated to support Core. There is no assurance that Woodbridge will provide additional resources to Core in the event that Core requires additional funds in order to meet its obligations as they become due. If Core is not able to meet its obligations as they become due, the lenders under the defaulted loans could foreclose on any property which serves as collateral for the defaulted loan and Core could be forced to cease or significantly curtail its operations, which would likely result in significant impairment charges and losses at Woodbridge. Our current business strategy may require us to obtain additional capital, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. There is no assurance that we will be able to continue to develop our real estate projects and pursue new investments as currently contemplated using solely our capital on hand. As a result, we may in the future need to obtain additional financing in an effort to successfully implement our business strategy. These funds may be obtained through public or private debt or equity financings, additional bank borrowings or from strategic alliances. We may not be successful in obtaining additional funds in a timely manner, on favorable terms or at all, especially in light of the current adverse conditions in the capital and credit markets and, with respect to funding of Core’s master-planned communities, the adverse conditions 18 Table of Contents in municipal bond markets which may impact our ability to access tax-exempt bond financing. Moreover, certain of our bank financing agreements contain provisions that limit the type and amount of debt we may incur in the future without our lenders’ consent. If we are unable to obtain any additional capital necessary to fund our real estate operations or pursue or consummate new investments, we may be required to delay, scale back or abandon some or all of our land development activities, or liquidate certain of our assets, and we may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy with respect to new investments. The occurrence of any of the above events may adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. We are subject to the risks of the businesses that we currently hold investments in, and our future acquisitions may reduce our earnings, require us to obtain additional financing, and expose us to additional risks. We currently hold investments in Bluegreen, Office Depot and Pizza Fusion, and, as a result, we are subject to the risks faced by those companies in their respective industries. Each has been adversely affected by a downturn in the economy, loss of consumer confidence and disruptions in the credit markets. In addition, our business strategy includes the possibility of making material investments in other industries. While we will seek investments and acquisitions primarily in companies that provide opportunities for growth with seasoned and experienced management teams, we may not be successful in identifying these opportunities. Further, investments or acquisitions that we do complete may not prove to be successful. Acquisitions may expose us to additional risks, including the risks faced by the acquired businesses, and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations if, among other things, the acquired businesses do not perform as expected or the acquisitions do not otherwise accomplish our strategic objectives. In addition, we will likely face competition in making investments or acquisitions which could increase the costs associated with the investment or acquisition. Our investments or acquisitions could initially reduce our per share earnings and add significant amortization expense or intangible asset charges. Since our acquisition strategy involves holding investments for the foreseeable future and because we do not expect to generate significant excess cash flow from operations, we may rely on additional debt or equity financing to implement our acquisition strategy. The issuance of debt will result in additional leverage which could limit our operating flexibility, and the issuance of equity could result in additional dilution to our then-current shareholders. In addition, such financing could consist of equity securities which have rights, preferences or privileges senior to our Class A or Class B Common Stock. We do not intend to seek shareholder approval of any investments or acquisitions unless required by law or regulation. If current economic and credit market conditions do not improve and the book value of our investments continue to exceed the trading value of the shares we own, we may incur additional impairment charges in the future relating to those investments, which would adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. We own approximately 9.5 million shares of Bluegreen common stock, representing approximately 31% of Bluegreen’s outstanding common stock. During 2008, we evaluated our investment in Bluegreen for impairment and determined that there was an other-than-temporary impairment associated with such investment at September 30, 2008. As a result, we recorded an impairment charge of $53.6 million and adjusted the carrying value of our investment in Bluegreen as of September 30, 2008 from $119.4 million to $65.8 million. Additionally, after further evaluation of our investment in Bluegreen as of December 31, 2008, we determined that an additional impairment of our investment in Bluegreen was appropriate. Accordingly, we recorded a $40.8 million impairment charge (calculated based upon the $3.13 closing price of Bluegreen’s common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on December 31, 2008). The carrying value of our investment in Bluegreen as of December 31, 2008 was $29.8 million. There can be no assurance that we will not be required to record a further impairment charge in the future relating to our investment in Bluegreen. On March 13, 2009, the closing price of Bluegreen’s common stock on the New York Stock Exhange was $1.12 per share. We also own approximately 1.4 million shares of Office Depot common stock, representing less than 1% of Office Depot’s outstanding common stock. These shares are accounted for as available-for-sale securities and are carried at fair value. During 2008, we evaluated our investment in Office Depot for impairment and determined that an impairment charge was necessary. Accordingly, we recorded an other- 19 Table of Contents than-temporary impairment of $12.0 million associated with our investment in Office Depot. As of December 31, 2008, the cost of our investment in Office Depot was $16.3 million while the carrying value of such investment, recorded at fair value, was $4.3 million. If current market conditions do not improve or if the trading price of Office Depot’s common stock does not otherwise increase, then we may be required to record future other-than-temporary impairment adjustments. On March 13, 2009, the closing price of Office Depot’s common stock on the New York Stock Exchange was $1.10 per share. In the event we record impairments in the future with respect to our current or future investments, then the cost of the investment determined to be impaired will be written down to its fair value with a corresponding charge to earnings, which would adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. We are subject to certain additional risks relating to our investment in Bluegreen. Although Bluegreen’s common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange, the shares of Bluegreen common stock we own may be deemed restricted stock, which would limit our ability to liquidate our investment in Bluegreen if we choose to do so. In addition, while we have made a significant investment in Bluegreen, we do not expect to receive any dividends from the company in the foreseeable future. For the year ended December 31, 2008, our earnings from our investment in Bluegreen were $9.0 million (after the amortization of approximately $9.2 million related to the change in the basis as a result of the impairment charge at September 30, 2008), compared to $10.3 million in 2007, and $9.7 million in 2006. At December 31, 2008, the carrying value of our investment in Bluegreen was $29.8 million. A significant portion of our earnings and book value are dependent upon Bluegreen’s ability to operate its business plan successfully, which may be difficult given the current economic environment. The loss of the services of our key management and personnel could adversely affect our business. Our ability to successfully implement our business strategy will depend on our ability to attract and retain experienced and knowledgeable management and other professional staff. There is no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining key management personnel. Our controlling shareholders have the voting power to control the outcome of any shareholder vote, except in limited circumstances. As of December 31, 2008, BFC Financial Corporation owned all of the issued and outstanding shares of our Class B Common Stock, and 3,735,391 shares, or approximately 22.4%, of our issued and outstanding Class A Common Stock. In the aggregate, these shares represent approximately 23.6% of our total equity and approximately 59% of our total voting power. Since our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock vote as a single group on most matters, BFC is in a position to control our Company and elect a majority of our Board of Directors. Additionally, Alan B. Levan, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and John E. Abdo, our Vice Chairman, collectively beneficially own shares of BFC’s Class A and Class B Common Stock representing approximately 73.8% of BFC’s total voting power. As a result, Alan B. Levan and John E. Abdo effectively have the voting power to control the outcome of any vote of our shareholders, except in those limited circumstances where Florida law mandates that the holders of our Class A Common Stock vote as a separate class. BFC’s interests may conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. Our net operating loss carryforwards could be substantially limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. We have experienced and continue to experience net operating losses. Under the Internal Revenue Code, we may utilize our net operating loss carryforwards in certain circumstances to offset future taxable income and to reduce federal income tax liability, subject to certain requirements and restrictions. However, if we experience an “ownership change,” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, then our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards could be substantially limited, which could have 20 Table of Contents a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. Generally, there is an “ownership change” if, at any time, one or more shareholders owning 5% or more of a company’s common stock have aggregate increases in their ownership of such stock of more than 50 percentage points over the prior three-year period. In September 2008, our Board of Directors adopted a shareholder rights plan designed to preserve shareholder value and protect our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards by providing a deterrent to holders of less than 5% of our Class A Common Stock from acquiring a 5% or greater ownership interest in our Class A Common Stock. However, there can be no assurance that the shareholder rights plan will successfully prevent against an “ownership change” or otherwise preserve our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards to offset any future taxable income, nor can there be any assurance that we will be in a position to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards in the future even if we do not experience an “ownership change.” In the event that the Company chooses to de-register its securities from registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission, it would no longer file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission and this could result in lower prices and more limited trading of the Company’s securities as well as adversely impact the Company’s ability to raise capital. In order to further reduce costs, the Company may choose to de-register its securities from the Securities and Exchange Commission, which would result in less information about the Company being publicly available to investors and could result in a lower trading price of the Company’s Class A common stock. During 2008, the Company failed to meet the minimum continued listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange necessary to cause the Company’s Class A common stock to maintain its listing on the New York Stock Exchange and, consequently, the Company’s Class A common stock was de-listed. The Company’s Class A common stock is now quoted on the Pink Sheets. In order to further reduce costs, the Company may choose to de-register its securities from the Securities and Exchange Commission, as the cost of public reporting is significant. Pursuant to the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, if at any time the number of record holders of the Company’s Class A common stock falls below 300, including accounts held through depositories and institutional custodians, then the Company would be permitted to elect to de-register its securities, which de-registration would be effective 90 days after making the appropriate filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. If the Company de-registers its securities from the Securities and Exchange Commission, then the Company would cease filing periodic reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including current reports on Form 8-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and annual reports on Form 10-K, which would result in less information about the Company being publicly available to investors. Accordingly, this could result in a lower trading price of the Company’s Class A common stock, may make it more difficult for the holders of the Company’s Class A common stock to sell or purchase shares of the Company’s Class A common stock, and may cause it to be more difficult for the Company to raise capital, which, in the event additional capital is required to operate the Company’s business, could materially and adversely impact the Company’s business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 