ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information in this annual report on Form 10-K, and in our other filings with the SEC, before deciding whether to invest in shares of our common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs with material adverse effects on us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock will likely decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Our quarterly operating results, including revenue and expense levels, have fluctuated significantly over time and are likely to continue to do so, principally due to the nature of telecommunication service providers’ capital spending cycles, the design win process as well as other factors. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed our forecasts or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. The telecommunications semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and subject to rapid change and, from time to time, has experienced significant downturns. As was widely reported in the first half of this decade, the telecommunications industry experienced, and may again experience, a pronounced downturn. These downturns are characterized by decreases in product demand and excess inventories held by our customers, OEMs, and their customers, the telecommunications service providers (also called “service providers”). To respond to these downturns, many service providers slow their capital expenditures, cancel or delay new developments, reduce their workforces and inventories and take a cautious approach to acquiring new equipment and technologies from OEMs, usually with very little notice. Quarterly fluctuations in revenue are characteristic of our industry. And given the concentration of our revenue among a few significant customers and given their buying patterns, we have experienced, and are likely to experience again, significant quarterly fluctuations of revenue. In the first quarter of 2005 and fourth quarter of 2006, we experienced quarter-over-quarter revenue declines of 33% and 43%, respectively, over the prior quarters. After three quarters of relatively flat revenue results, our revenue for the third quarter of 2008 declined by $5.7 million, or 19%, compared to the second quarter of 2008. We win supply relationships by working with OEMs and service providers to have our semiconductors designed into systems that will be deployed by service providers over multiples quarters. At any given time, as is currently the case, we are competing for one or more of these design wins. If we are not successful in obtaining these design wins, our revenue results would be negatively affected. Even when we are designed into OEMs’ equipment, service provider deployments can be affected by various factors, including but not limited to demand for DSL-based broadband services, government regulatory actions and competitors’ efforts to protect or gain market share. We are aware of such deployment delays currently occurring with a service provider in Japan. The semiconductor industry also periodically experiences increased demand and production capacity constraints, which may affect our ability to ship products. Accordingly, our operating results may vary significantly as a result of the general conditions in the semiconductor or broadband communications industry, which could cause our stock price to decline. In addition, our expenses are also subject to quarterly fluctuations resulting from factors including the costs related to new product releases. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors for any quarter or other reporting period, the market price of our common stock may decline. Fluctuations in our operating results may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, changes in the mix of products we develop, acquire and sell as well as those identified throughout this Risk Factors section. As a result, you should not rely on quarter to quarter comparisons of our operating results as an indicator of future performance. 19 Table of Contents The current worldwide financial situation could dampen demand for services based upon our products. Our business is not directly tied to the reported causes of the current downturn in the financial markets. However we believe that consumer-targeted broadband services, which are deployed using our technology, are part of most households’ discretionary spending. If individual consumers decide not to install—or decide to discontinue purchasing—broadband services in their homes in order to save money an in uncertain economic situation, the resulting drop in demand could cause telecommunications service providers to reduce or stop placing orders for OEM equipment containing our products. Accordingly, the OEMs’ demand for our products could drop further, potentially having a materially negative effect on our revenue. In the latter part of 2008, we retained investment bankers to advise senior management and the Board of Directors regarding the Company’s strategic options; if the Board of Directors decides to pursue any options, that decision could significantly affect the Company’s stock price. As announced in October 2008, we decided to retain Barclays Capital (formerly Lehman Brothers) to provide financial advice regarding potential strategic options for the Company. Such options include, without limitation, financing transactions, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, corporate restructuring and other activities. There can be no assurance that the evaluation of our options will result in the identification, announcement or consummation of any transaction. If the Board of Directors decides to authorize a transaction, that decision could cause significant volatility in the price of the Company’s outstanding common stock. Moreover, any transactions we do sign may not be acceptable to our stockholders. In addition, our investigation of strategic options may result in added costs, potential loss of customers and key employees as well as management’s distraction from ordinary-course business operations. We have a history of losses, and future losses may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We may not be able to reduce our expenses or generate sufficient revenue in the future to achieve or sustain profitability. Since our inception, we have only been profitable on a GAAP basis in the third and fourth quarter of 2005. Prior to the third quarter of 2005, we incurred significant net losses, and we incurred losses in the past nine quarters. Beginning in 2006, accounting rules required us to report stock-based compensation as an expense, which has comprised a substantial portion of our quarterly and annual losses, as reported on a GAAP basis. We incurred a net loss of $41.1 million for the year ended December 28, 2008 and have an accumulated deficit of $183.8 million as of December 28, 2008. To achieve profitability again, we will need to generate and sustain higher revenue, while maintaining cost and expense levels appropriate and necessary for our business. Because many of our expenses are fixed in the short term, or are incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may not be able to continue to hold down our costs and expenses in a timely manner to offset any lower-than-forecasted revenue shortfall as we experienced in the fourth quarter of 2006. We may not be able to achieve profitability again and, even if we were able to attain profitability again, we may not be able to sustain profitability on a quarterly or an annual basis in the future. The general tightening of the credit market could potentially limit our access to financial resources. If the company continues to operate at a loss and the cash on our balance sheet continues to decline, there is a possibility we could have to seek out and evaluate alternative sources of financing in order to fund operations. Historically we have not had to use debt financing to operate the business. If that situation were to change, we believe it would be very difficult to borrow funds on terms favorable to us, if at all, due to the extremely limited availability of credit in the current economic environment. The unavailability of credit along with limits on other financing alternatives could thus negatively impact our business. Even if we were able to secure debt financing, the terms could be unfavorable to us, and we may be subject to various restrictive covenants, which could limit our ability to operate our business. 20 Table of Contents Our success is dependent upon achieving design wins into commercially successful OEM and ODM systems. Our products are generally incorporated into our OEM and ODM customers’ systems at the design stage. As a result, we rely on OEMs to select our products to be designed into their systems, which we refer to as a “design win.” We often incur significant expenditures over multiple fiscal quarters in attempting to obtain a design win without any assurance that an OEM will select our product for design into its own system. Additionally, in some instances, we are dependent on third parties to obtain or provide information that we need to achieve a design win. Some of these third parties may not supply this information to us on a timely basis, if at all. Furthermore, even if an OEM designs one of our products into its system offering, we cannot be assured that its equipment will be commercially successful or that we will receive any orders and, accordingly, revenue as a result of that design win. Our OEM customers are typically not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to stop using them if their own systems are not commercially successful, if they decide to pursue other systems strategies, or for any other reason. If we are unable to achieve design wins or if our OEM customers’ systems incorporating our products are not commercially successful, our revenue would suffer. If demand for our semiconductor products declines or does not grow, we will be unable to increase or sustain our revenue; and our operating results will be harmed. We currently expect the semiconductor products we have already announced to account for substantially all of our revenue for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to develop new products or to successfully integrate acquired products and technology to meet our customers’ demand in a timely manner, if demand for our semiconductors declines or fails to grow, or if the DSL, GPON or network processor markets do not materialize as expected, it would harm our business. In addition to being affected by global macroeconomic factors, the markets for our products are characterized by frequent introduction of new semiconductors, short product life cycles and significant price competition. If we or our OEM customers are unable to manage product transitions in a timely and cost-effective manner, our revenue would suffer. In addition, frequent technology changes and introduction of next generation products may result in inventory obsolescence, which would increase our cost of revenue and adversely affect our operating performance. The average selling prices and gross margins of certain of our products are subject to declines, which may harm our revenue and profitability. Our products are subject to rapid declines in average selling prices due to competitive pressures, including lowering average selling prices in order to increase market share. We have lowered our prices significantly at times to gain or maintain market share, and we expect that we will reduce prices again in the future. Offering reduced prices to one customer could likely impact our average selling prices to all customers. In addition, we have not been able to reduce our costs of goods sold as rapidly as our prices have declined. Our financial results will suffer if we are unable to maintain or increase pricing, or are unable to offset any future reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes, by reducing our manufacturing costs or by developing new or enhanced products that command higher prices or better gross margins on a timely basis. Our products typically have lengthy sales cycles, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate and result in volatility in the price of our common stock. An OEM customer or a service provider may decide to cancel, delay or change its product plans, which could cause us to lose or delay anticipated sales. After we have delivered a product to an OEM customer, the OEM will usually test and evaluate our product with its service provider customer prior to the OEM completing the design of its own equipment that will incorporate our product. Our OEM customers and the service providers may take several months to test, evaluate and adopt our product and several additional months to begin volume production of equipment that incorporates our product. This entire process can take from six months to over a year to complete. Due to this lengthy sales cycle, we may experience significant delays from the time we increase our operating expenses and make 21 Table of Contents investments in inventory until the time that we generate revenue from these products. It is possible that we may never generate any revenue from these products after incurring these expenditures and investments. Even if an OEM customer selects our product to incorporate into its equipment, we have no assurances that the customer will ultimately market and sell its equipment or that such efforts by our customer will be successful. The delays inherent in our lengthy sales cycle increases the risk that an OEM customer or service provider will decide to cancel or change its product plans. From time to time, we have experienced changes and cancellations in the purchase plans of our OEM customers. A cancellation or change in plans by an OEM customer or service provider could cause us to not achieve anticipated revenue and result in volatility of the price of our common stock. In addition, our anticipated sales could be lost or substantially reduced if a significant OEM customer or service provider reduces or delays orders during our sales cycle or chooses not to release equipment that contains our products. Our product sales mix is subject to frequent and unexpected changes, which may impact our revenue and margin. Our product margins vary widely by product. As a result, a change in the sales mix of our products could have an impact on the forecasted revenue and margins for the quarter. Our modem only products within the Gateway product family generally have lower margins as compared to our Access product family. Furthermore, the product margins within our Access product line can vary based on the type and performance of deployment being used as customers typically pay higher selling prices for higher performance. While we make estimates of what we believe the product mix will be in a given quarter, actual results can be materially different than our estimates. Because we depend on a few significant customers for a substantial portion of our revenue, the loss of any of our key customers, our inability to continue to sell existing and new products to our key customers in significant quantities or our failure to attract new significant customers could adversely impact our revenue and harm our business. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from sales to a relatively small number of customers. As a result, the loss of any significant customer or a decline in business with any significant customer would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The following customers accounted for more than 10% of our revenue for any one of the periods indicated. We have indicated the OEM customer based on information that we receive at the time of ordering. Our Direct Customer OEM Customer Year EndedDecember 31, 2006 Year EndedDecember 30, 2007 Year EndedDecember 28, 2008 NEC Corporation NEC Corporation 23 % 29 % 25 % Paltek Corporation Sumitomo Electric Industries * * 23 Sagem Sagem 23 20 21 Alcatel-Lucent and its CMs(a) Alcatel-Lucent * * 11 Altima Corporation Sumitomo Electric Industries 19 12 * Uniquest Dasan, Millinet andUbiquoss 22 11 * * Less than 10% (a) Alcatel and Lucent Technologies, prior to and subsequent to their 2007 merger, accounted for a combined 3% and 10% of our revenue in 2006 and 2007, respectively. A small group of OEM customers historically has accounted for a substantial portion of our revenue; the composition of this group has varied, and we expect will continue to vary, over time. Further, we expect that this small group of customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable 22 Table of Contents future. Accordingly, our future operating results will continue to depend on the success of our largest OEM customers and on our ability to sell existing and new products to these customers in significant quantities. Demand for our semiconductor products is based on service provider demand for our OEM customers’ systems products. Accordingly, a reduction in growth of service provider deployment of product that use our semiconductors would adversely affect our product sales and business. In addition, our relationships with some of our larger OEM customers may also deter other potential customers who compete with these customers from buying our products. To attract new customers or retain existing OEM customers, we have offered and may continue to offer certain customers favorable prices on our products. If these prices are lower than the prices paid by other existing OEM customers, we may have to offer the same lower prices to certain of these customers. In that event, our average selling prices would decline. The loss of a key customer, a reduction in sales to any major customer, or our inability to attract new significant customers in the absence of any offsetting sales would harm our business. We have historically derived a substantial amount of our revenue from Japan and Korea, and a majority of our network processing revenue comes from a single customer in France. If we fail to further diversify the geographic sources and customer base of our revenue in the future, our operating results could be harmed. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from sales into Japan, Korea and France; and our revenue has been heavily dependent on market growth in these countries. As a result, our sales are subject to economic downturns, decrease in demand and overall negative market conditions in a very few number of specific economies. For instance, a slow down in growth of fiber extension over copper and broadband over copper subscribers in Asia has caused our revenue in that market to decline, and may prevent that revenue stream from returning to historical levels. While part of our strategy is to continue to diversify the geographic sources and customer base of our revenue, our failure to successfully penetrate markets other than those served by our existing customers, and diversify our customer base could harm our business and operating results. In the past year, we have experienced a turnover in several senior management positions, and we may be unable to attract, retain and motivate key senior management and technical personnel, which could harm our development of technology and ability to be competitive. In January 2008, our Vice President and General Manager of Gateway Products Group resigned; and in March 2008, our Vice President of Marketing for our Access Products Group resigned. In April 2008, we hired a General Manager and in July 2008, we hired a Vice President of Corporate Marketing. Our Chief Executive Officer, Michael Gulett, who has been a member of our board of directors for five years, assumed his current role with the company in July 2008. We also recently hired a new Vice President of Software Engineering. Further, as required, we seek out highly-qualified candidates to fill positions throughout our business. We will continue to examine ways to improve the Company’s processes, productivity and results. Our future success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our senior executives and key technical personnel as well as the integration of new senior executives. We do not have employment agreements with any of these executives or any other key employees that govern the length of their service. Changes in the services of senior management or technical personnel could impact our customer relationships, employee morale, our ability to operate in compliance with existing internal controls and regulations and harm our business. Furthermore, our future success depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate other senior management and qualified technical personnel, particularly software engineers, digital circuit designers, mixed-signal circuit designers and systems and algorithms engineers. Competition for these employees is intense. Restricted stock units and stock options generally comprise a significant portion of our compensation packages for all employees, and as long as the price of our common stock remains depressed it may make it more difficult 23 Table of Contents for us to attract and retain key employees, which could harm our ability to provide technologically competitive products. Additionally, a reduction in staff could negatively affect employee morale. For example, in November 2006, we reduced the number of employees and contractors in our workforce by approximately 30 people. Additionally, in September 2007, we decided to reduce the number of employees by approximately 15 people, including several senior executives. These reductions were principally in our engineering departments and have resulted in reallocations of employee duties. Workforce reductions and job reassignments could negatively affect employee morale and make it difficult to motivate and retain the remaining employees and contractors, which would affect our ability to deliver our products in a timely fashion and otherwise negatively affect our business. Because of the rapid technological development in our industry and the intense competition we face, our products tend to become outmoded or obsolete in a relatively short period of time, which requires us to provide frequent updates and/or replacements to existing products. If we do not successfully manage the transition process to next generation semiconductor products, our operating results may be harmed. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological innovation and intense competition. Accordingly, our success depends in part on our ability to develop next generation semiconductor products in a timely and cost-effective manner. The development of new semiconductor products is expensive, complex and time consuming. If we do not rapidly develop our next generation semiconductor products ahead of our competitors, we may lose both existing and potential customers to our competitors. Further, if a competitor develops a new, less expensive product using a different technological approach to delivering broadband services over existing networks, our products would no longer be competitive. Conversely, even if we are successful in rapidly developing new semiconductor products ahead of our competitors and we do not cost-effectively manage our inventory levels of existing products when making the transition to the new semiconductor products, our financial results could be negatively affected by high levels of obsolete inventory. If any of the foregoing were to occur, then our operating results would be harmed. We rely on third-party technologies for the development of our products; and our inability to use such technologies in the future would harm our ability to remain competitive. We rely on third parties for technologies that are integrated into some of our products, including our memory cells, input/output cells, hardware interfaces and core processor logic. If we are unable to continue to use or license these technologies on reasonable terms, or if these technologies fail to operate properly, we may not be able to secure alternatives in a timely manner and our ability to remain competitive would be harmed. For instance, we have experienced on-going issues with the intellectual property acquired from one of our vendors for one of our products. We have worked with the vendor as well as with customers who purchase this product to identify process and design improvements that will ultimately resolve these issues. While we have not experienced material warranty costs in any period as a result of the issues related to this intellectual property, there can be no assurance that we will not in the future experience material damages from this or other licensed intellectual property. Failure to use the technologies we have purchased could also result in unfavorable impairment costs. In addition, if we are unable to successfully license technology from third parties to develop future products, we may not be able to develop such products in a timely manner or at all. We are a fabless semiconductor company and may rely on one wafer foundry and one assembly and test subcontractor to manufacture, package and test each of our products, and our failure to secure and maintain sufficient capacity with these subcontractors, or if a subcontractor ceases operations, such developments could impair our relationships with customers and decrease sales, which would negatively impact our market share and operating results. We are a fabless semiconductor company in that we do not own or operate a fabrication or manufacturing facility. Currently, seven wafer foundries and three outside factory subcontractors, located in Austria, China, Israel, Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan, and the United States manufacture, assemble and test all of our semiconductor devices in current production. While we work with multiple suppliers, only one foundry and one assembly and test subcontractor may be used for a single product. Accordingly, we are greatly dependent on a limited number of suppliers to deliver quality products on time. 24 Table of Contents In past periods of high demand in the semiconductor market, we have experienced delays in meeting our capacity demand and as a result were unable to deliver products to our customers on a timely basis. In addition, we have experienced similar delays due to technical and quality control problems. Furthermore, our costs for manufacturing services or components have increased from time to time without significant notice. In the fall of 2008, we received notice that later this year one of our subcontractors will close a fabrication facility where two of our products are made, unless a third party buys the facility and keeps it open. We have been informed that there is a potential buyer for the facility, and we have been in communication with that potential buyer, but there is no guarantee that the facility will be sold. Accordingly, we have begun making arrangements for a last-time buy for the two products fabricated at this facility, and have identified alternative fabrication facilities for these products. Transitioning to alternative manufacturers may be more expensive, may result in additional costs associated with obtaining customer requalification or may not be available at all. In the future, if any of these events occur, or if the facilities of any of our subcontractors suffer any damage, power outages, financial difficulties or any other disruption due to natural disasters, terrorist acts or otherwise, we may be unable to meet our customer demand on a timely basis, or at all; and we may be required to incur additional costs and may need to successfully qualify an alternative facility in order to not disrupt our business. We typically require several months or more to qualify a new facility or process before we can begin shipping products. If we cannot accomplish this qualification in a timely manner, we would experience a significant interruption in supply of the affected products which could in turn cause our costs of revenue to increase and our overall revenue to decrease. If we are unable to secure sufficient capacity at our subcontractors’ existing facilities, or in the event of a closure or significant delay at any of these facilities, our relationships with our customers would be harmed and our market share and operating results would suffer as a result. In addition, we do not have formal pricing agreements with our subcontractors regarding the pricing for the products and services that they provide us. If their pricing for the products and services they provide increases and we are unable to pass along such increases to our OEM customers, our operating results would be adversely affected. In the event we seek to use new wafer foundries to manufacture a portion of our semiconductor products, we may not be able to bring the new foundries on-line rapidly enough and may not achieve anticipated cost reductions. As indicated above, our use of six independent wafer foundries to manufacture all of our semiconductor products exposes us to risks of delay, increased costs and customer dissatisfaction in the event that any of these foundries were unable to provide us with our semiconductor requirements. Particularly during times when semiconductor manufacturing capacity is limited, we may seek to qualify additional wafer foundries to meet our requirements. In order to bring these new foundries on-line, our customers may need to qualify product from the new facility, which could take several months or more. Once qualified, these new foundries would then require an additional number of months to actually begin producing semiconductors to meet our needs, by which time the temporary requirement for additional capacity may have passed or the opportunities we previously identified may have been lost to our competitors. Furthermore, even if these new foundries offer better pricing than our existing manufacturers, if they prove to be less reliable than our existing manufacturers, we would not achieve some or all of our anticipated cost reductions. When demand for manufacturing capacity is high, we may take various actions to try to secure sufficient capacity, which may be costly and negatively impact our operating results. The ability of each of our subcontractors’ manufacturing facilities to provide us with semiconductors is limited by its available capacity and existing obligations. Although we have purchase order commitments to supply specified levels of products to our OEM customers, we do not have a guaranteed level of production capacity from any of our subcontractors’ facilities that we depend on to produce our semiconductors. Facility capacity may not be available when we need it or at reasonable prices. We place our orders on the basis of our OEM customers’ purchase orders or our forecast of customer demand, and our subcontractors may not be able to 25 Table of Contents meet our requirements in a timely manner. For example, in the second half of 2005 and in the first half of 2006, general market conditions in the semiconductor industry resulted in a significant increase in demand at these facilities. The demand for some of our OEM customers’ products increased significantly, and we were asked to produce significantly higher quantities than in the past and to deliver on short notice. In addition, our subcontractors have also allocated capacity to the production of other companies’ products and reduced deliveries to us on short notice. It is possible that our subcontractors’ other customers that are larger and better financed than we are, or that have long-term agreements with our subcontractors, may have induced our subcontractors to reallocate capacity to them. If this reallocation were to occur again, it would impair our ability to deliver products on a timely basis. In addition, due to the weak global economy, some of our subcontractors have been laying off employees and/or shortening work schedules. These reductions in labor and factory operations could result in capacity constraints that impair our ability to obtain finished products in time to meet customer demand. In order to secure sufficient manufacturing facility capacity when demand is high and mitigate the risks described in the foregoing paragraphs, we may enter into various arrangements with subcontractors that could be costly and harm our operating results, including: • option payments or other prepayments to a subcontractor; • nonrefundable deposits with or loans to subcontractors in exchange for capacity commitments; • contracts that commit us to purchase specified quantities of components over extended periods; • purchase of testing equipment for specific use at our subcontractors’ facilities; • issuance of our equity securities to a subcontractor; and • other contractual relationships with subcontractors. We may not be able to make any such arrangements in a timely fashion or at all, and any arrangements may be costly, reduce our financial flexibility and not be on terms favorable to us. Moreover, if we are able to secure facility capacity, we may be obligated to use all of that capacity or incur penalties. These penalties and obligations may be expensive and require significant capital and could harm our business. If our subcontractors’ manufacturing facilities do not achieve satisfactory quality or yields, our relationships with our customers and our reputation will be harmed, our revenue, gross margin and operating results could decline. Defects in our products may not be always detected by the testing process performed by our subcontractors or by our own staff. Those defects can result from a variety of causes, including but not limited to manufacturing problems or intellectual property licensed from third parties. If defects are discovered after we have shipped our products, we have and could continue to experience warranty and consequential damages claims from our customers. In January 2007, a significant customer notified us that they were experiencing a high defect rate on a certain product that was manufactured and shipped in the last month of 2006. In February 2007, we entered into a settlement agreement releasing us of all liabilities associated with this claim in exchange for a payment and providing replacement parts. The settlement was recorded as an offset to revenue and as accrued rebates within accrued liabilities in the fourth quarter of 2006. Such claims as this one or others may have a significant adverse impact on our revenue and operating results. We incorporate third party intellectual property into our products. That intellectual property consists of elements of the semiconductor, such as the processor core, standard external interfaces, as well as applications that run on our products. From time to time, our customers have discovered errors or defects arising from these 26 Table of Contents third party intellectual property designs. We and our contract manufacturers attempt to catch these defects in the testing process, but are not always successful. If we are unable to deliver quality products, our reputation would be harmed, which could result in the loss of, future orders and business with our customers. If any of these adverse risks are realized and we are not able to offset the lost opportunities, our revenue, margins and operating results would decline. The fabrication of semiconductors is a complex and technically demanding process. Minor deviations in the manufacturing process can cause substantial decreases in yields; and in some cases, cause production to be stopped or suspended. We have experienced difficulties in achieving acceptable yields on some of our products, particularly with new products, which frequently involve newer manufacturing processes and smaller geometry features than previous generations. Maintaining high numbers of shippable die per wafer is critical to our operating results, as decreased yields can result in higher per unit cost, shipment delays and increased expenses associated with resolving yield problems. Although we work closely with our subcontractors to minimize the likelihood of reduced manufacturing yields, their facilities have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields that have resulted in our inability to meet our customer demand. We have been experiencing manufacturing defect rates for one of our products that are higher than the rates we experience with our other products. As noted above, we believe that the issues observed in this product are related to a particular third party technology; however, there may be other causes for these defects. We have been actively working with the vendor and with our customers to reduce the defect rate for this product. If we are unable to resolve these issues, our revenues could be materially reduced and our warranty-related costs could be materially higher than currently anticipated. It is common for yields in semiconductor fabrication facilities to decrease in times of high demand or due to poor workmanship or operational problems at these facilities. When these events occur, especially simultaneously, as happens from time to time, we may be unable to supply our customers’ demand. Many of these problems are difficult to detect at an early stage of the manufacturing process and, regardless of when the problems are detected, they may be time consuming and expensive to correct. In addition, because we purchase wafers, our exposure to low wafer yields from our subcontractors’ wafer foundries are increased. Poor yields from the wafer foundries or defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our products could cause us significant customer relations and business reputation problems, or force us to sell our products at lower gross margins and therefore harm our financial results. Conversely, unexpected yield improvements could result in us holding excess inventory that would also increase our product cost and negatively impact our profitability. We base orders for inventory on our forecasts of our OEM customers’ demand and if our forecasts are inaccurate, our financial condition and liquidity would suffer. We place orders with our suppliers based on our forecasts of our OEM customers’ demand. Our forecasts are based on multiple assumptions, each of which may introduce errors into our estimates. In the past, when the demand for our OEM customers’ products increased significantly, we were not able to meet demand on a timely basis, and we expended a significant amount of time working with our customers to allocate limited supply and maintain positive customer relations. If we underestimate customer demand, we may forego revenue opportunities, lose market share and damage our customer relationships. Conversely, if we overestimate customer demand, we may allocate resources to manufacturing products that we may not be able to sell. As a result, we would have excess or obsolete inventory, resulting in a decline in the value of our inventory, which would increase our cost of revenue and create a drain on our liquidity. Our failure to accurately manage inventory against demand would adversely affect our financial results. To remain competitive, we need to continue to reduce the cost of our semiconductor chips, which includes migrating to smaller geometrical process, and our failure to do so may harm our business. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometrical processes, which are measured in microns or nanometers. We have designed our products to be manufactured in 27 Table of Contents 0.8 micron, 0.25 micron, 0.18 micron, 0.13 micron, 0.09 micron (or 90 nanometer) and 0.065 micron (or 65 nanometer) geometrical processes. We may migrate some of our current products to smaller geometrical process technologies, and over time, we are likely to migrate to even smaller geometries. The smaller geometry generally reduces our production and packaging costs, which may enable us to be competitive in our pricing. The transition to smaller geometries requires us to work with our subcontractors to modify the manufacturing processes for our products, to develop new and more complex quality assurance tests and to redesign some products. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased product costs and expenses. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers, and our failure to do so would impact our ability to provide competitive prices to our customers, which would have a negative impact on our sales. Additionally, upfront expenses associated with smaller geometry process technologies such as for masks and tooling can be significantly higher than those for the processes that we currently use, and our migration to these newer process technologies can result in significantly higher research and development expenses. The complexity of our products could result in unforeseen delays or expenses and in undetected defects or bugs, which could damage our reputation with current or prospective customers and adversely affect the market acceptance of new products. Highly complex products such as those that we offer frequently contain defects (commonly referred to as “bugs”), particularly when they are first introduced or as new versions are released. In the past, we have experienced, and may in the future experience, defects or bugs in our products. These defects or bugs may originate in third party intellectual property incorporated into our products as well as in technology or software designed by Ikanos’ engineers. If any of our products contains defects or bugs, or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged; and our OEM customers may be reluctant to buy our products, which could harm our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. In addition, these defects or bugs could interrupt or delay sales or shipment of our products to our customers. Acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures or investments may impair our capital and equity resources, divert our management’s attention or otherwise negatively impact our operating results. We intend to continue to pursue acquisitions, strategic alliances and other transactions that we believe may allow us to complement our growth strategy, increase market share in our current markets and expand into adjacent markets, broaden our technology and intellectual property and strengthen our relationships with service providers and OEMs. For example, in 2006, we completed the NPA acquisition. This transaction consumed significant management attention, added to our expenses and used $32.7 million in cash. In February 2008, we purchased certain DSL assets from Centillium for approximately $11.9 million in cash. As noted above, we recently retained investment bankers to advise senior management and the Board of Directors regarding this type of strategic activity going forward. Any future acquisition, partnership, joint venture or investment may require that we pay significant cash, issue stock, thereby diluting existing stockholders, or incur debt, if such debt is available on terms acceptable to our board of directors. Acquisitions, partnerships or joint ventures may also require significant managerial attention, which may divert our focus. These capital, equity and managerial commitments may impair the operation of our business. Furthermore, acquired businesses may not be effectively integrated, may be unable to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships, may result in the loss of key personnel, may contribute to increased fixed costs and may expose us to unanticipated liabilities and otherwise harm our operating results. We face intense competition in the semiconductor industry and the broadband communications markets, which could reduce our market share and negatively impact our revenue. The semiconductor industry and the broadband communications markets are intensely competitive. In the VDSL or VDSL-like technology, PON and network processing markets, we currently compete or expect to 28 Table of Contents compete with, among others, Aware, Inc., Broadcom Corporation, Broadlight, Cavium Networks, Conexant Systems, Inc., Freescale Semiconductor, Inc., Infineon Technologies A.G., Intel Corporation, Marvell Technology Group Ltd., PMC-Sierra, Inc., Realtek Semiconductor Corp, Teknovus, Thomson S.A. and TrendChip Technologies Corp. We expect competition to continue to increase. Competition has resulted and may continue to result in declining average selling prices for our products and market share. We consider other companies that have access to DMT technology as potential competitors in the future, and we also may face competition from newly established competitors, suppliers of products based on new or emerging technologies and customers who choose to develop their own semiconductors. To remain competitive, we need to provide products that are designed to meet our customers’ needs. Our products must: • achieve optimal product performance; • comply with industry standards; • be cost-effective for our customers’ use in their systems; • meet functional specifications; • be introduced timely to the market; and • be supported by a high-level of customer service and support. Many of our competitors operate their own fabrication facilities or have stronger manufacturing subcontractor relationships than we have. In addition, many of our competitors have extensive technology libraries that could enable them to incorporate broadband or network processing technologies into a more attractive product line than ours. Many of them also have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than we do. These competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers, resellers or other third parties. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Existing or new competitors may also develop alternative technologies that more effectively address our markets with products that offer enhanced features and functionality, lower power requirements, greater levels of semiconductor integration or lower cost. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or new competitors, in which case we may lose market share in our existing markets and our revenue may fail to increase or may decline. Other data transmission technologies and network processing technologies may compete effectively with the service provider services addressed by our products, which could adversely affect our revenue and business. Our revenue currently is dependent upon the increase in demand for service provider services that use DSL broadband technology and integrated residential gateways. Besides VDSL and other DMT-based technologies, service providers can decide to deploy PON or fiber. In this case, fiber is used to connect directly to the residence instead of using the existing copper phone line. As such, if a service provider decides to deploy fiber-to-the-home, our VDSL products are not required. For example, a major service provider in Korea announced its intention to use more fiber-to-the-home deployments in the future. Such deployments of fiber may be in lieu of VDSL products. If more service providers decide to use FTTH deployments, it could harm our business. Furthermore, residential gateways compete against a variety of different data distribution technologies, including Ethernet routers, set-top boxes provided by cable and satellite providers, wireless (WiFi and WiMax) and emerging power line and multimedia over coax alliance technologies. If any of these competing technologies proves to be more reliable, faster or less expensive than, or has any other advantages over the broadband technologies we provide, the demand for our products may decrease and our business would be harmed. 29 Table of Contents If we are unable to develop, introduce or to achieve market acceptance of our new semiconductor products, our operating results would be adversely affected. Our future success depends on our ability to develop new semiconductor products and transition to new products, introduce these products in a cost-effective and timely manner and convince OEMs to select our products for design into their new systems. Our historical quarterly results have been, and we expect that our future results will continue to be, dependent on the introduction of a relatively small number of new products and the timely completion and delivery of those products to customers. The development of new semiconductor products is complex, and from time to time we have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. We have in the past invested substantial resources in emerging technologies that did not achieve the market acceptance that we had expected. Our ability to develop and deliver new semiconductor products successfully will depend on various factors, including our ability to: • successfully integrate certain technologies acquired in acquisitions into our product lines; • accurately predict market requirements and evolving industry standards; • accurately define new semiconductor products; • timely complete and introduce new product designs or features; • timely qualify and obtain industry interoperability certification of our products and the equipment into which our products will be incorporated; • ensure that our subcontractors have sufficient foundry capacity and packaging materials and achieve acceptable manufacturing yields; • shift our products to smaller geometry process technologies to achieve lower cost and higher levels of design integration; and • gain market acceptance of our products and our OEM customers’ products. If we are unable to develop and introduce new semiconductor products successfully and in a cost-effective and timely manner, we will not be able to attract new customers or retain our existing customers, which would harm our business. Our efforts to identify technologies and develop products designed to deliver broadband services inside the home may not ultimately be successful; if this is the case, our current long-term strategy would not result in the growth in our revenue we intend to generate, and we could experience a material negative effect on our business and equity value. We have focused our long-term technology strategy on identifying technologies that would be used to deliver services such as high-definition television over various broadband wireline and wireless media within the home. This so-called “Digital Home” has received attention from leaders in semiconductors and systems. For instance, an industry organization named the “Home Grid Forum” was formed recently by Intel, Texas Instruments, Infineon and Panasonic in order to define the industry standards applicable to Digital Home technologies. We and several other smaller companies also are founding participants. If we are unable to develop products that comply with the standards set by the Home Grid Forum or other industry organizations, and our investments in Digital Home technologies do not result in any commercially viable products, we would not realize revenue growth based upon such technologies, and our business and equity value could suffer as a result. Our products include a significant amount of firmware. If we are unable to deliver the firmware in a timely manner, we may have to delay revenue recognition at the end of a quarter, which could lead to significant unplanned fluctuations in our quarterly revenue. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed our forecasts or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. In connection with new product introductions in a given market, we release production quality code to our OEM customers. This firmware is required for our products to function as intended. If the production-ready 30 Table of Contents firmware is not released in a timely manner, we may have to defer all revenue related to the semiconductors that we may have already shipped during the quarter, and therefore, cause us to miss our revenue guidance. In addition, a customer may demand a specific future software feature as part of its order. As such, we may have to delay recognition on some or all of our revenue related to that customer’s order until the future software feature is delivered. Such delays or deferrals in revenue recognition could lead to significant fluctuations in our quarterly revenue and operating results and cause us to fail to meet or exceed our quarterly revenue guidance. Rapidly changing standards and regulations could make our products obsolete, which would cause our revenue and operating results to suffer. We design our products to conform to regulations established by governments and to standards set by industry standards bodies worldwide such as the Committee T1E1.4 (now known as NIPP-NAI) of the ATIS (accredited by ANSI), and worldwide by both the IEEE and the ITU-T. Because our products are designed to conform to current specific industry standards, if competing standards emerge that are preferred by our customers, we would have to make significant expenditures to develop new products. If our customers adopt new or competing industry standards with which our products are not compatible, or the industry groups adopt standards or governments issue regulations with which our products are not compatible, our existing products would become less desirable to our customers, and our revenue and operating results would suffer. If we fail to secure or protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may be able to use our technologies, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our revenue or increase our cost. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents, and our existing and future patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies or may be held invalid or unenforceable in court. While we are not currently aware of misappropriation of our existing technology, policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our technologies, particularly in foreign countries where we have not applied for patent protections and, even if such protections were available, the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as United States law. The patents we have obtained or licensed, or may obtain or license in the future, may not be adequate to protect our proprietary rights. Our competitors may independently develop or may have already developed technology similar to ours, duplicate our products or design around any patents issued to us or our other intellectual property. In addition, we have been, and may be, required to license our patents as a result of our participation in various standards organizations. If competitors appropriate our technology and we are not adequately protected, our competitive position would be harmed, our legal costs would increase and our revenue would be harmed. Third-party claims of infringement or other claims against us could adversely affect our ability to market our products, require us to redesign our products or seek licenses from third parties, and harm our business. In addition, any litigation required to defend such claims could result in significant expenses and diversion of our resources. Companies in the semiconductor industry often aggressively protect and pursue their intellectual property rights. From time to time, we receive, and are likely to continue to receive in the future, notices that claim our products infringe upon other parties’ proprietary rights. While we do not believe that we are currently infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties, we may in the future be engaged in litigation with parties who claim that we have infringed their patents or misappropriated or misused their trade secrets or who may seek to invalidate one or more of our patents, and it is possible that we would not prevail in any future lawsuits. An adverse determination in any of these types of claims could prevent us from manufacturing or selling some of our products could increase our costs of products and could expose us to significant liability. Any of these claims could harm our business. For example, in a patent or trade secret action, a court could issue a preliminary or 31 Table of Contents permanent injunction that would require us to withdraw or recall certain products from the market or redesign certain products offered for sale or that are under development. In addition, we may be liable for damages for past infringement and royalties for future use of the technology and we may be liable for treble damages if infringement is found to have been willful. Even if claims against us are not valid or successfully asserted, these claims could result in significant costs and a diversion of management and personnel resources to defend. Any potential dispute involving our patents or other intellectual property could also include our manufacturing subcontractors and OEM customers and/or service providers using our products, which could trigger our indemnification obligations to one or more of them and result in substantial expense to us. In any potential dispute involving our patents or other intellectual property, our manufacturing subcontractors and OEM customers could also become the target of litigation. Because we often indemnify our customers for intellectual property claims made against them for products incorporating our technology, any litigation could trigger technical support and indemnification obligations in some of our license agreements, which could result in substantial expenses such as increased legal expenses, damages for past infringement or royalties for future use. From time to time, we receive notices that customers have received potential infringement notices from third parties. While we have not incurred any indemnification expenses as a result of notices received to date, any future indemnity claim could adversely affect our relationships with our OEM customers and result in substantial costs to us. Changes in current or future laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws or regulations by federal or state agencies or foreign governments could impede the sale of our products or otherwise harm our business. The effects of regulation on our customers or the industries in which they operate may materially and adversely impact our business. For example, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications in Japan, the Ministry of Communications and Information in Korea, various national regulatory agencies in Europe, as well as the European Commission in the European Union, along with the U.S. Federal Communications Commission have broad jurisdiction over our target markets. Although the laws and regulations of these and other federal or state agencies may not be directly applicable to our products, they do apply to much of the equipment into which our products are incorporated. Governmental regulatory agencies worldwide may affect the ability of telephone companies to offer certain services to their customers or other aspects of their business, which may in turn impede sales of our products. In addition to the laws and regulations specific to telecommunications equipment, other laws and regulations affect our business. For instance, changes in tax, employment and import/export laws and regulations, and changes their enforcement, commonly occur in the various countries in which we operate. If changes in those law and regulations, or in the enforcement of those laws and regulations, occur in a manner we did not anticipate, those changes could cause us to have increased operating costs or to pay higher taxes, and thus have a negative effect on our operating results. Compliance with the requirements imposed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could harm our operating results, our ability to operate our business and our investors’ view of us. If we do not maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley. There is a risk that neither we, nor our independent registered public accounting firm, will be able to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as required by Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley. In addition, during the course of our testing we may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by Sarbanes-Oxley for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. Effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, valuation of inventory and warranty 32 Table of Contents provisions, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. We are highly dependent on manufacturing, development and sales activities outside of the United States; and as our international manufacturing, development and sales operations expand, we will be increasingly exposed to various legal, business, political and economic risks associated with our international operations. We currently obtain substantially all of our manufacturing, assembly and testing services from suppliers and subcontractors located outside the United States, and have a significant portion of our research and development team located India and France. In addition, 92% of our revenue for the year ended December 28, 2008 and 94% of our revenue for the year ended December 30, 2007 was derived from sales to customers outside the United States. We have expanded our international business activities and may open other design and operational centers abroad. International operations are subject to many other inherent risks, including but not limited to: • political, social and economic instability, including war and terrorist acts; • exposure to different legal standards, particularly with respect to intellectual property; • natural disasters and public health emergencies; • trade and travel restrictions; • the imposition of governmental controls and restrictions or unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; • import and export license requirements and restrictions of the United States and each other country in which we operate; • foreign technical standards; • changes in tariffs; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • foreign currency exposure and fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • difficulties in collecting receivables from foreign entities or delayed revenue recognition; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Because we are currently substantially dependent on our foreign sales, research and development and operations, any of the factors described above could significantly harm our ability to produce quality products in a timely and cost effective manner, and increase or maintain our foreign sales. Fluctuations in exchange rates between and among the Euro, the Indian rupee, the Japanese yen, the Korean won, the Singapore dollar and the U.S. dollar, and, as well as other currencies in which we do business, may adversely affect our operating results. We maintain extensive operations internationally. We have large offices in Bangalore and Hyderabad, India and other offices in France, Japan, Korea, Singapore and Taiwan. We incur a portion of our expenses in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including the Euro, the Indian rupee, the Korean won, the Japanese yen, Singapore dollar and the Taiwanese dollar. As a result, we may experience foreign exchange gains or losses due to the volatility of these currencies compared to the U.S. dollar. Because we report our results in U.S. dollars, the difference in exchange rates in one period compared to another directly impacts period to period comparisons of our operating 33 Table of Contents results. In addition, our sales have been historically denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result of an increase in the U.S. dollar relative to the Korean won, our customers in Korea have significantly reduced their orders; a similar increase in the U.S. dollar occurs relative to other currencies in the countries where our customers operate could materially affect our other Asian and European customers’ demand for our products, thereby forcing them to reduce their orders, which would adversely affect our business. Furthermore, currency exchange rates have been especially volatile in the recent past and these currency fluctuations may make it difficult for us to predict and/or provide guidance on our results. Currently, we have not implemented any strategies to mitigate risks related to the impact of fluctuations in currency exchange rates and we cannot predict future currency exchange rate changes. Several of the facilities that manufacture our products, most of our OEM customers and the service providers they serve, and our California facility are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. Several of our subcontractors’ facilities that manufacture, assemble and test our products, and four of our subcontractor’s wafer foundries, are located in Malaysia, Singapore and Taiwan. Our customers are currently primarily located in Japan and Korea. The Asia-Pacific region has experienced significant earthquakes and other natural disasters in the past and could be subject to additional seismic activities. Any earthquake or other natural disaster in these areas could significantly disrupt these manufacturing facilities’ production capabilities and could result in our experiencing a significant delay in delivery, or substantial shortage, of wafers in particular, and possibly in higher wafer prices, and our products in general. Our headquarters in California are also located near major earthquake fault lines. If there is a major earthquake or any other natural disaster in a region where one of our facilities is located, it could significantly disrupt our operations. Our investments in marketable securities may experience further decline in value, which would require us to recognize a charge and adversely affect our operating results. Our marketable securities portfolio, which totals $ 61.2 million at December 28, 2008, includes auction rate securities of $1.0 million ($7.2 million at cost). Auction rate securities are securities that are structured with short-term interest rate reset dates of generally less than ninety days, but with contractual maturities that can be well in excess of ten years. At the end of each interest reset period, which occurs every seven to thirty-five days, investors can sell or continue to hold the securities at par. In the third quarter of 2007, certain auction rate securities with a cost value of $7.2 million failed auction and did not sell. We recorded an other-than-temporary impairment of approximately $6.2 million during the three months ended September 28, 2008 related to these auction rate securities. Although we believe that $1.0 million is the current fair value of these securities, there is a risk that the value of the securities may decline in value further, which would result in additional loss being recognized in our statement of operations. Changes in our tax rates could affect our future results. Our future effective tax rates could be favorably or unfavorably affected by the absolute amount and future geographic distribution of our pre-tax income, our ability to successfully shift our operating activities to our foreign operations and the amount and timing of inter-company payments from our foreign operations subject to U.S. income taxes related to the transfer of certain rights and functions. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid, or at all. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially since our initial public offering and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. Fluctuations have occurred and may continue to occur in response to various factors, many of which we cannot control, including: • quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results; • announcements of changes in our senior management; 34 Table of Contents • the gain or loss of one or more significant customers or suppliers; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors, customers or us; • the gain or loss of market share in any of our markets; • general economic and political conditions and specific conditions in the semiconductor industry and broadband technology markets, including seasonality in sales of consumer products into which our products are incorporated; • continuing international conflicts and acts of terrorism; • changes in earnings estimates or investment recommendations by analysts; • changes in investor perceptions; • changes in product mix; or • changes in expectations relating to our products, plans and strategic position or those of our competitors or customers. The closing sale price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market for the period of December 31, 2006 to December 28, 2008 ranged from a low of $1.02 to a high of $9.34. In addition, the market prices of securities of semiconductor and other technology companies have been volatile, particularly companies, like ours, with low trading volumes. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid. The pending class action litigation could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. In November 2006, three putative class action lawsuits were filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against the Company, our directors and two former executive officers, as well as the lead underwriters for our initial and secondary public offerings. The lawsuits were consolidated and an amended complaint was filed on April 24, 2007. The amended complaint alleges certain material misrepresentations and omissions by us in connection with our initial public offering in September 2005 and the follow-on offering in March 2006 concerning our business and prospects, and seeks unspecified damages. On June 25, 2007, we filed motions to dismiss the amended complaint; plaintiffs opposed our motions, and a hearing on our motions was heard on January 16, 2008. The Court dismissed the case with prejudice on March 10, 2008. On March 25, 2008, plaintiffs filed a motion for reconsideration, and on June 12, 2008, the District Court denied the motion for reconsideration. On October 15, 2008, plaintiffs appealed the District Court’s dismissal of the amended complaint and denial of its motion for reconsideration to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. The parties have filed their respective briefs with the Second Circuit and are awaiting notification from the court as to whether oral argument will be allowed. The Company cannot predict the likely outcome of the appeal. If we are not successful in our defense of the lawsuits, we could be forced to make significant payments to class members and their lawyers, and such payments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations, if not covered by our insurance service providers. Even if such claims are not successful, the litigation could result in substantial expenses and the diversion of management’s attention, which could have an adverse effect on our business. If securities or industry analysts do not continue to publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue an adverse opinion regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us issue an adverse 35 Table of Contents opinion regarding our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Continuing to repurchase the Company’s common stock may not be positively received by investors or may not occur at all. In April 2008 our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase shares of our outstanding common stock having an aggregate value of up to $10 million, as opportunities arise and depending upon market conditions and other factors. To date, we have purchased $5.2 million of our common stock under this program. The timing, amount and nature of the remaining $4.8 million of stock repurchases will be at the discretion of management. Our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase program based upon the belief that it is an appropriate use of the Company’s cash, and a benefit to stockholders. The program, as authorized by the Board does not obligate us to acquire any particular amount of common stock, and may be modified, suspended or discontinued at any time at management’s sole discretion. Repurchases under the program may be made in open market or privately negotiated transactions in compliance with applicable legal requirements. Certain factors, including a substantial increase in the stock price or an unexpected competing cash requirement may prevent us from executing the remainder, or some portion of the remainder, of this repurchase program. Substantial future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall. As of March 2, 2009, we had approximately 29.1 million shares of common stock outstanding. Of these shares, 6.4 million were sold in our initial public offering in September 2005 and an additional 2.5 million were sold in a follow-on public offering in March 2006. All of these shares are freely tradable under federal and state securities laws without further registration under the Securities Act, except that any shares held by our “affiliates” (as that term is defined under Rule 144 of the Securities Act) may be sold only in compliance with the limitations under Rule 144. The remaining outstanding shares are “restricted securities” and generally are available for sale in the public market at various times upon qualification for exemption pursuant to Rules 144 and/or 701 of the Securities Act. In the future, we intend to issue additional shares to our employees, directors or consultants, and may issue shares in connection with corporate acquisitions, as well as in follow-on offerings to raise additional capital. Due to these factors, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales could reduce the market price of our common stock. Delaware law and our corporate charter and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: • the right of the Board of Directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the Board of Directors; • the establishment of a classified Board of Directors requiring that not all members of the board be elected at one time; • the prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; • the requirement for advance notice for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting; • the ability of the Board of Directors to alter our bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval; 36 Table of Contents • the ability of the Board of Directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with terms set by the Board of Directors, which rights could be senior to those of common stock; • the required approval of holders of at least two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws or amend or repeal the provisions of our certificate of incorporation regarding the election and removal of directors and the ability of stockholders to take action; • the required approval of holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to remove directors for cause; and • the elimination of the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to take action by written consent. We are also subject to provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for three years after the point in time that such stockholder acquired shares constituting 15% or more of our shares, unless the holder’s acquisition of our stock was approved in advance by our board of directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 