Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in our other filings with the SEC, before deciding whether to invest in shares of our common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs with material adverse effects on us, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock will likely decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition We have a history of losses, and future losses or the inability to raise additional capital in the future may adversely impact our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis that assumes we will be able to realize our assets and discharge our liabilities in the normal course of business for the foreseeable future. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm for the year fiscal ended December 29, 2013, included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, contains an explanatory paragraph indicating that there is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern as a result of recurring losses from operations. Since our inception, we have never been profitable on an annual basis and we have incurred significant net losses leading to an accumulated deficit of $326.1 million as of December 29, 2013. To achieve profitability, we will need to generate and sustain higher revenue and improve our gross margins, while maintaining expense levels that are appropriate and necessary for our business. We may not be able to achieve profitability and, even if it were able to attain profitability, we may not be able to sustain profitability on an on-going quarterly or annual basis in the future. If we are unable to grow our revenue substantially to achieve and sustain profitability, we may not be able to continue as a going concern. We may need to raise additional capital in the future. The sale of additional shares of common stock or other securities would result in dilution to our stockholders and incurring indebtedness would result in restrictions on our operations. We may not have cash sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the foreseeable future and may need to seek financing in the future. These financings could include the sale of equity securities (which would result in dilution to our stockholders) or we may incur additional indebtedness (which would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in additional operating and financial covenants that would restrict our operations). There can be no assurance, however, that any such equity or debt financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The failure to obtain additional equity or debt financing, if needed, could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, and financial condition. We utilize a revolving credit facility to fund our operations. Should we no longer have access to the revolving line of credit, it would materially impact our business, financial condition and liquidity. On January 14, 2011, we entered into a Loan and Security Agreement (Loan Agreement) with Silicon Valley Bank (SVB), to change existing financial covenants to coincide with our then-current operating plan. Under the Loan Agreement we may borrow up to $15.0 million, subject to certain limitations. From time-to-time we draw advances under the Loan Agreement and repay the advance when required. As of December 29, 2013, the balance under the Loan Agreement was $12.0 million. The Loan Agreement is collateralized by a first priority perfected lien on, and pledge of, all of our present and future property and assets. We were in compliance with all of the covenants as of December 29, 2013 and expect to be in compliance through the first quarter of 2014. However, we anticipate that we may not be in compliance with all of the covenants contained in the Loan Agreement during certain periods of 2014 and, accordingly, have begun negotiations with SVB. If we do not remain in compliance with all of the financial covenants contained in the Loan Agreement, we may need to 23 Table of Contents obtain a waiver from SVB or an amendment to the Loan Agreement. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining waivers from SVB or amendments to the Loan Agreement. The failure to obtain the necessary waiver or amendment could result in any advances under the Loan Agreement being repayable immediately on demand, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, and financial condition. Our Loan Agreement is subject to contractual and borrowing base limitations, which could adversely affect our liquidity and business. The maximum amount we can borrow under our Loan Agreement is subject to contractual and borrowing base limitations, which could significantly and negatively impact our future access to capital required to operate our business. Borrowing base limitations are based upon eligible accounts receivable. If our accounts receivable are deemed ineligible, because, for example, they are resident outside certain geographical regions or a receivable is older than 90 days, the amount we can borrow under the revolving credit facility would be reduced. These limitations could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity and business. Our Loan Agreement contains financial covenants that may limit our operating and strategic flexibility. Our Loan Agreement contains financial covenants and other restrictions that limit our ability to engage in certain types of transactions. For example, these restrictions limit our ability to, or do not permit us to, incur additional debt, pay cash dividends, make other distributions or repurchase stock, engage in certain merger and acquisition activity, and make certain capital expenditures. There can be no assurance that we will be in compliance with all covenants in the future or that SVB will agree to modify the Loan Agreement, should that become necessary. Events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants and restrictions. Failure to comply with any of these covenants and restrictions would result in a default under the Loan Agreement. If we do not cure an event of default or obtain necessary waivers within the required time periods, SVB would be permitted to accelerate the maturity of the debt under the Loan Agreement, foreclose upon our assets securing the debt, and terminate any further commitments to lend. Under these circumstances, we may not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy our other obligations. In addition, the limitations imposed by the Loan Agreement may significantly impair our ability to obtain other debt or equity financing. There can be no assurance that any waivers we request will be received on a timely basis, if at all, or that any waivers obtained will extend for a sufficient period of time to avoid an acceleration event, an event of default, or other restrictions on our business. The failure to obtain the necessary waivers could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, and financial condition. Our history of losses as well as future losses or inability to raise additional capital in the future, may adversely impact our relationships with customers and potential customers. Since our inception, we have never been profitable on an annual basis and we have incurred significant net losses leading to an accumulated deficit of $326.1 million as of December 29, 2013. To achieve profitability, we will need to generate and sustain higher revenue and to improve our gross margins while maintaining expense levels that are appropriate and necessary for our business. We may not be able to achieve profitability and, even if we were able to attain profitability, we may not be able to sustain profitability on an on-going quarterly or annual basis. Since we compete with companies that have greater financial stability, our customers or potential customers may be reluctant to enter into arrangements with us due to the perceived risks to our long term viability and this, in turn, may adversely affect our financial results. 24 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock is currently trading below $1.00. If our common stock continues to trade below $1.00, our stock could be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market, which action could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock and harm our business. Our common stock is currently traded on The NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol IKAN. The NASDAQ Capital Market has a number of continued listing requirements, including the requirement contained in NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), which generally requires the minimum closing bid price remain at a $1.00 or more per share. Beginning on January 31, 2014, our stock began to trade below $1.00. If our closing bid price is below $1.00 for 30 consecutive trading days, we would anticipate being notified by NASDAQ that we must regain compliance with this continued listing requirement within 180 calendar days. This occurred previously in September of 2011, when the closing bid price for our stock was consistently below $1.00. By letter dated December 16, 2011, we were notified by NASDAQ that we were being provided 180 calendar days, or until June 13, 2012, to regain compliance with this continued listing requirement. The compliance period was subsequently extended to December 10, 2012. Beginning on or about September 10, 2012, the closing bid price of our common stock was at $1.00 or more per share. Subsequently, NASDAQ provided us written notice that we had then regained compliance with Marketplace Rule 5810(c)(3)(A). Even if our stock does not trade below $1.00 for 30 consecutive days in the immediate future, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to remain in compliance with all of NASDAQ’s continued listing requirements. If we are again subject to delisting for any reason, including the failure to maintain the minimum closing bid price, such action would adversely affect the market price and liquidity of the trading market for our common stock and our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and could result in the loss of confidence by our investors, suppliers, and employees. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile, and holders of our common stock may not be able to resell shares at or above the price paid, or at all. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially since our initial public offering and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. Fluctuations have occurred and may continue to occur in response to various factors, many of which we cannot control, including: • quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results; • failure to comply with NASDAQ minimum bid price, as indicated above; • changes in our senior management; • the success or failure of our new products; • the gain or loss of one or more significant customers or suppliers; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors, customers, or us; • the gain or loss of market share in any of our markets; • general economic and political conditions; • specific conditions in the semiconductor industry and broadband technology markets, including seasonality in sales of consumer products into which our products are incorporated; • continuing international conflicts and acts of terrorism; • changes in earnings estimates or investment recommendations by analysts; • changes in investor perceptions; 25 Table of Contents • changes in product mix; or • changes in expectations relating to our products, plans, and strategic position or those of our competitors or customers. The closing sales price of our common stock for the period of January 1, 2007 to December 29, 2013 ranged from a low of $0.67 to a high of $9.34. In addition, the market prices of securities of semiconductor and other technology companies have been volatile, particularly for companies like us, with relatively low trading volumes. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. Accordingly, holders of our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above the price paid. If the securities analysts who currently publish reports on us do not continue to publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue an adverse opinion regarding our common stock, the market price of our common stock and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us and our business. Currently, two analysts periodically publish reports about our Company. If these two analysts issue an adverse opinion regarding our common stock, the stock price would likely decline. If the analysts cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose further visibility to the financial markets, which in turn could cause the market price of our common stock or trading volume to decline. Takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable may be delayed or discouraged due to our corporate charter and bylaws which contain anti-takeover provisions, Delaware law, or the Tallwood Investors. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: • the right of our Board of Directors to expand the size of our Board and to elect a director to fill such a vacancy; • the establishment of a classified Board of Directors, which provides that not all members of the Board are elected at one time; • the prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; • the requirement for advance notice for nominations for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting; • the ability of our Board of Directors to alter our bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval; • the ability of our Board of Directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock with terms set by the Board of Directors, which rights could be senior to those of common stock; • the required approval of holders of at least two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to adopt, amend, or repeal our bylaws or amend or repeal the provisions of our certificate of incorporation regarding the election and removal of directors, and the ability of stockholders to take action; • the required approval of holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to remove directors for cause; and • the elimination of the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to take action by written consent. 26 Table of Contents In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. These provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts and could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in the market price being lower than it would without these provisions. Due to the significant number of shares of our common stock that the Tallwood Investors hold, as discussed below, the Tallwood Investors may have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of any matter submitted for the vote of our stockholders, including a takeover attempt, and may have interests that diverge from, or even conflict with, our interests and those of our other stockholders. Risks Related to Our Customers and Markets We are in a product transition phase and we may not be able to adequately develop, market, or sell new products. Revenues from certain existing products are decreasing as these products near end-of-life. Beginning in the third quarter of 2012, we began selling our next generation CPE product Fusiv Vx185, Vx183, Vx175, and Vx173 chipsets. Further, we are currently developing a new broadband DSL CO platform that incorporates vectoring technology. The successful customer migration to our new products is critical to our business, and there is no assurance that we are or will be able to market and or sell new products and services in a timely manner. Our newer products and services, including our Vx585 family, Velocity-3, and Velocity-Uni products, may be delayed, and new products may not be accepted by the market, may be accepted later than anticipated, or may be replaced by newer products more quickly than anticipated. Our sales and operating results may be adversely affected if we are unable to bring new products to market, if customers delay purchases, or if acceptance of new products is slower than expected or to a smaller degree than expected, if at all. Failure of future offerings to be accepted by the market could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition, and reputation. Because we depend on a relatively small number of significant customers for a substantial portion of our revenue, the loss of any of our key customers, our inability to continue to sell existing and new products to our key customers in significant quantities, or our failure to attract significant new customers, could adversely impact our revenue and harm our business. We have in the past, and expect in the future, to derive a substantial portion of our revenue from sales to a relatively small number of significant customers. Our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 80% of our revenue in 2013. For 2013, Sagemcom Tuisie (Sagemcom), Askey Computer Corporation (a contract manufacturer for Sagemcom) (Askey), AVM Computersysteme Vertriebs GmbH (AVM), and Paltek Corporation represented 24%, 14%, 11%, and 10% of our revenue, respectively, and Sagemcom, Askey, and Flextronics Manufacturing (H.K.) Ltd. represented 19%, 13%, and 12% of our revenue in 2012, respectively. The composition and concentration of these customers has varied in the past, and we expect that it will continue to vary in the future. As a result, the loss of any significant customer or a decline in business with any significant customer would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may experience pressure from significant customers to agree to customer-favorable sales terms and price reductions. Our lack of long-term agreements with our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. We typically do not have contracts with our major customers that obligate them to purchase any minimum amount of products from us. Sales to these customers are made pursuant to purchase orders, which typically can be canceled or modified up to a specified point in time, which may be after we have incurred significant costs related to the sale. If any of our key customers significantly reduced or canceled its orders, our business and 27 Table of Contents operating results could be adversely affected. Because many of our semiconductor products have long product design and development cycles, it would be difficult for us to replace revenues from key customers that reduce or cancel their existing orders for these products, which may happen if they experience lower than anticipated demand for their products or cancel a program. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business. We face intense competition in the semiconductor industry and the broadband communications markets, which could reduce our market share and negatively affect our revenue. The semiconductor industry and the broadband communications markets are intensely competitive. In the VDSL or VDSL-like technology and communications processing markets, we currently compete or expect to compete with, among others, Broadcom Corporation, Cavium, Inc., Freescale Semiconductor, Inc., Lantiq Deutschland GmbH, Marvell Technology Group Ltd., MediaTek Inc., PMC-Sierra, Inc., and Realtek Semiconductor Corp. Many of our competitors have stronger manufacturing subcontractor relationships than we have and longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical, and other resources. In addition, many of our competitors have extensive technology libraries that could enable them to incorporate broadband or communications processing technologies into a system on a chip, creating a more attractive product line than ours. These competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements than we are able to. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers, resellers, or other third parties. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Existing or new competitors may also develop alternative technologies that more effectively address our markets with products that offer enhanced features and functionality, lower power requirements, greater levels of semiconductor integration, or lower cost. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or new competitors, in which case we may lose market share and our revenue may fail to increase or may decline. Our success is dependent upon achieving new design wins into commercially successful systems sold by our OEM and ODM customers. Our products are generally incorporated into our OEM and ODM customers’ systems at the design stage. As a result, we rely on OEMs and ODMs to select our products to be designed into their systems, which we refer to as a “design win.” At any given time, we are competing for one or more of these design wins. We often incur significant expenditures over multiple quarters without any assurance that we will achieve a design win. Furthermore, even if we achieve a design win, we cannot be assured that the OEM or ODM equipment that we are designed into will be marketed, sold, or commercially successful and, accordingly, we may not generate any revenue from the design win. In addition, our OEM and ODM customers can choose at any time to discontinue their systems that include our products or delay deployment, which has occurred in the past from time-to-time. If we are unable to achieve design wins or if our OEM customers’ systems incorporating our products are not commercially successful or deployed, our operating results would suffer. Our operating results have fluctuated significantly over time and are likely to continue to do so, and as a result, we may fail to meet or exceed our revenue forecasts or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change, product obsolescence, price erosion, evolving standards, uncertain product life cycles, and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The industry has, from time-to-time, experienced significant and sometimes prolonged downturns, often connected with or in anticipation of maturing product cycles and declines in general economic 28 Table of Contents conditions. To respond to these downturns, some service providers have decreased their capital expenditures, changed their purchasing practices to use refurbished equipment rather than purchasing new equipment, canceled or delayed new deployments, and taken a cautious approach to acquiring new equipment and technologies from OEMs, usually with very little notice. This, in turn, has reduced the demand for new semiconductors by our direct customers which could result in significant fluctuations of revenue as the economy changes. Any future downturns may reduce our revenue and could result in our accumulating excess inventory. By contrast, any upturn in the semiconductor industry could result in increased demand and competition for limited production capacity, which may affect our ability to ship products and prevent us from benefiting from such an upturn. Accordingly, our operating results may vary significantly as a result of the general conditions in the semiconductor or broadband communications industry, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Fluctuations in our expenses could affect our operating results. Our expenses are subject to fluctuations resulting from various factors, including, but not limited to, higher expenses associated with new product releases, addressing technical issues arising from development efforts, unanticipated tapeout costs, additional or unanticipated costs for manufacturing or components because we do not have formal pricing arrangements with our subcontractors, costs of design tools, and large up-front license fees to third parties for intellectual property integrated into our products, as well as other factors identified throughout these risk factors. Because many of our expenses are relatively fixed in the short term, or are incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may not be able to reduce our expenses sufficiently to mitigate any reductions in revenue. Therefore, it may be necessary to take other measures to align expenses with revenue, including, implementation of a corporate restructuring plan. We last implemented a restructuring plan in 2012. Restructuring charges included expenses related to the severance for terminated employees and other exit-related costs arising from contractual and other obligations. General macroeconomic conditions could reduce demand for services based upon our products. Our business is susceptible to macroeconomic and other world market conditions. As an example, we believe that consumer-targeted broadband services, which are deployed using our technology, are part of most households’ discretionary spending. We believe the global financial economic downturn that began in 2008 and continued into 2013, particularly in Europe, negatively affected consumer confidence and spending. These outcomes and behaviors may adversely affect our business and financial condition. If individual consumers decide not to install—or discontinue purchasing—broadband services in their homes, whether to save money in an uncertain economic climate or otherwise, the resulting drop in demand could cause telecommunications service providers to reduce or stop placing orders for OEM equipment containing our products. Accordingly, the OEMs’ demand for our products could drop further, potentially having a materially negative effect on our revenue. Industry consolidation may lead to increased competition and may harm our operating results. There has been a trend toward consolidation in our industry. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. We believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete for customers. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Furthermore, rapid consolidation could result in a decrease in the number of customers we serve. Loss of a major customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents If we are unable to develop, introduce, or achieve market acceptance of our new semiconductor products, our operating results would be adversely affected. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological innovation and intense competition. Our future success will depend on our ability to continue to predict what new products are needed to meet the demand of the broadband, communications processor, or other markets addressable by our products and then introduce, develop, and distribute such products in a timely and cost-effective manner. The development of new semiconductor products is complex, and from time-to-time we have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. In the past we have invested substantial resources in developing and purchasing emerging technologies that did not achieve the market acceptance that we had expected. Our ability to develop and deliver new semiconductor products successfully will depend on various factors, including our ability to: • successfully integrate our products with our OEM customers’ products; • gain market acceptance of our products and our OEM customers’ products; • accurately predict market requirements and evolving industry standards; • accurately define new semiconductor products; • timely complete and introduce new product designs or features; • timely qualify and obtain industry interoperability certification of our products and the equipment into which our products will be incorporated; • ensure that our subcontractors have sufficient foundry capacity and packaging materials and achieve acceptable manufacturing yields; and • shift our products to smaller geometry process technologies to achieve lower cost and higher levels of design integration. If we are unable to develop and introduce new semiconductor products successfully and in a cost-effective and timely manner, we will not be able to attract new customers or retain our existing customers, which would harm our business. If we do not successfully manage our inventory in the transition process to next generation semiconductor products, our operating results may be harmed. If we are successful in developing new semiconductor products ahead of competitors but do not cost-effectively manage our inventory levels of existing products when making the transition to the new semiconductor products, our financial results could be negatively affected by high levels of obsolete inventory and our operating results would be harmed. The average selling prices and gross margins of our products are subject to declines, which may harm our revenue and profitability. Our products are subject to rapid declines in average selling prices due to pressure from customers. We have lowered our prices significantly at times to gain or maintain market share, and we expect to do so again in the future. In addition, we may not be able to reduce our costs of goods sold as rapidly as our prices decline. Our financial results, in particular, but not limited to, our gross margins, will suffer if we are unable to maintain or increase pricing, or are unable to offset any future reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes, reducing our manufacturing costs, or developing new or enhanced products that command higher prices or better gross margins on a timely basis. 30 Table of Contents Our product sales mix is subject to frequent changes, which may impact our revenue and margin. Our product margins vary widely by product and customer. As a result, a change in the sales mix of our products could have an impact on forecasted revenue and margins. For example, our Access product family generally has higher margins as compared to our Gateway product family. Furthermore, the product margins within our product families can vary based on the performance and type of deployment, as the market typically commands higher prices for higher performance. While we forecast a future product mix and make purchase decisions based on that forecast, actual results can be materially different which could negatively impact our revenue and margins. Any defects in our products could harm our reputation, customer relationships, and results of operations. Our products may contain undetected defects, errors, or failures, which may not become apparent until the products are in the hands of our customers or our customers’ customers. The occurrence of any defects, errors, or failures discovered after we have sold the product could result in: • cancellation of orders; • product returns, repairs, or replacements; • monetary or other accommodations to our customers; • diversion of our resources; • legal actions by customers or customers’ end users; • increased insurance and warranty costs; and • other losses to us or to customers or end users. Any of these occurrences could also result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of these or other products and loss of sales, which could negatively affect our business and results of operations. As our products become even more complex in the future, this risk may intensify over time and may result in increased expenses. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate. We operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry. This industry is characterized by wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. In the past, the semiconductor industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, excess manufacturing capacity worldwide, maturing product cycles, and declines in general economic conditions. Even if demand for our products remains constant, a lower level of available foundry capacity could increase our costs, which would likely have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Changes in our senior management could negatively affect our operations and relationships with our customers and employees. We have recently experienced changes in our senior management team: the resignations of our Vice President of Program Management in April 2012 and our Vice President of Sales in March 2013 and the appointments of our new President and Chief Executive officer in June 2012, our new Vice President of Operations in September 2012, our new Vice President of Marketing in February 2013, and our new Vice President of Sales in May 2013. Changes in our senior management or technical personnel could affect our customer relationships, employee morale, and our ability to operate in compliance with existing internal controls and regulations and harm our business. If we are unable to maintain a consistent senior management team or successfully integrate our current and future members of senior management, our business could be negatively affected. 31 Table of Contents Because competition for qualified personnel is intense in our industry, we may not be able to recruit and retain necessary personnel, which could impact our product development and sales. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate our senior management team as well as qualified technical personnel, particularly software engineers, digital circuit designers, mixed-signal circuit designers, and systems and algorithms engineers. Competition for these employees is intense and many of our competitors may have greater name recognition and significantly greater financial resources to better compete for these employees. If we are unable to retain our existing personnel, or attract and train additional qualified personnel, our growth may be limited due to our lack of capacity to develop and market our products. All of our key employees are employed on an “at will” basis. The loss of any of these key employees could slow our product development processes and sales efforts or harm the perception of our business. We may also incur increased operating expenses and be required to divert the attention of our senior management to recruit replacements for key employees. Also, our depressed common stock price may result in difficulty attracting and retaining personnel as stock options and other forms of incentive equity grants generally comprise a significant portion of our compensation packages for all employees, which could harm our ability to provide technologically competitive products. Further, the changes in senior management as well as the multiple restructurings and reductions in force that we have recently experienced, have had, and may continue to have, a negative effect on employee morale and the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Risks Related to Our Operations and Technology We rely on third-party technologies for the development of our products, and our inability to use such technologies in the future or the failure of such technology would harm our ability to remain competitive. We rely on third parties for technologies that are integrated into some of our products, including memory cells, input/output cells, hardware interfaces, and core processor logic. If we are unable to continue to use or license these technologies on reasonable terms, or if these technologies fail to operate properly, we may not be able to secure alternatives in a timely manner and our ability to remain competitive would be harmed. Further, if we were to seek such a license and such license were available, we could be required to make significant payments with respect to past and/or future sales of our products, and such payments may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. If a party determines to pursue claims against us for patent infringement, we might not be able to successfully defend against such claims. In addition, the third party intellectual property could also expose us to liability and, while we have not experienced material warranty costs in any period as a result of third party intellectual property, there can be no assurance that we will not experience such costs in the future. Our service agreement with eSilicon Corporation (eSilicon) limits our ownership and control of raw materials and work-in-process. Should eSilicon default on its contractual commitments to us or fail to timely deliver furnished goods, it would negatively impact our revenue and reputation. In 2012, we entered into an agreement with eSilicon (the Service Agreement) under which eSilicon handles a majority of our day-to-day supply chain management, production test engineering, and production quality engineering functions. Pursuant to the Service Agreement, we place orders for our finished goods with eSilicon, which, in turn, contracts with wafer foundries and assembly and test subcontractors, managing these operational functions for us on a day-to-day basis. eSilicon owns the raw materials and work-in-process until such time as the products are delivered to us as finished goods. Should eSilicon default on its contractual obligation to deliver finished goods to us in a timely manner, or at all, we may be required to restart the wafer production process with a total cycle time of approximately one calendar quarter. As a result, we may be required to incur additional costs and we would experience delays in delivering products to our customers, which would result in decreased revenue, have a negative effect on operating results, and harm our reputation. 32 Table of Contents We are a fabless semiconductor company and failure to secure and maintain sufficient capacity with eSilicon and its subcontractors could significantly disrupt shipment of our products, impair our relationships with customers, and decrease sales, which would negatively impact our market share and operating results. We are a fabless semiconductor company and are therefore dependent on and currently use multiple third-party wafer foundries and other subcontractors, located primarily in Israel, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Taiwan, to manufacture, assemble, and test all of our semiconductor devices. While we work with multiple suppliers, generally each individual product is made by one foundry and one assembly and test subcontractor. Accordingly, we have been and will continue to be greatly dependent on a limited number of suppliers to deliver quality products in a timely manner. In past periods of high demand in the semiconductor market, we have experienced delays in obtaining sufficient capacity to meet our demand and as a result were unable to deliver all of the products to our customers on a timely basis. In addition, we have experienced similar delays due to technical and quality control problems. We are dependent on eSilicon and, in turn, its suppliers to deliver our products on time. If we and/or eSilicon were to need to qualify a new facility to meet a need for additional capacity, or if a foundry or subcontractor ceased working with eSilicon, as has happened in the past, or if production is disrupted (including an event where eSilicon ceases its business operations), we may be unable to meet our customer demand on a timely basis, or at all. We may be required to incur additional costs and may need to successfully qualify an alternative facility in order to not disrupt our business. In the event that we seek to use new wafer foundries to manufacture a portion of our semiconductor products, we may not be able to bring the new foundries on-line rapidly enough and may not achieve anticipated cost reductions. As indicated above, we have used and will continue to use a limited number of independent wafer foundries to manufacture all of our semiconductor products, which could expose us to risks of delay, increased costs, and customer dissatisfaction in the event that any of these foundries are unable to meet our requirements. Additional wafer foundries may be sought to meet our future requirements but the qualification process typically requires several months or more. By the time a new foundry is qualified, the need for additional capacity may have passed or we may have lost the potential opportunity to a competitor. If qualification cannot be met in a timely manner, we would experience a significant interruption in supply of the affected products, which could in turn cause our costs of revenue to increase and our overall revenue to decrease. This would harm our customer relationships and our market share, as well as our operating results would suffer. When demand for manufacturing capacity is high, we may take various actions to try to secure sufficient capacity, which could be costly and negatively impact our operating results. Although we have purchase order commitments to supply specified levels of products to our OEM customers, neither we nor eSilicon have a guaranteed level of production capacity from any of our foundries or subcontractors’ facilities that we depend upon to produce our semiconductors. Facility capacity may not be available when we need it or at reasonable prices. We place our orders on the basis of our OEM customers’ purchase orders or our forecast of customer demand, and eSilicon or its foundries and subcontractors may not be able to meet our requirements in a timely manner, or at all. In order to secure sufficient manufacturing facility capacity when demand is high and mitigate the risks described in the foregoing paragraphs, we may enter into various arrangements with eSilicon, or directly with foundries or other subcontractors, that could be costly and negatively affect our operating results, including minimum order quantities over extended periods, and payment of premiums to secure necessary lead-times. We may not be able to make any such arrangements in a timely fashion or at all, and any arrangements may be costly, reduce our financial flexibility, not be on terms favorable to us, and may contain financial penalties if 33 Table of Contents we do not use all of our allocated facility capacity. These penalties and obligations may be expensive and could harm our business. Defects and poor performance in our products could result in a loss of customers, decreased revenue, unexpected expenses, and loss of market share, and we may face warranty and product liability claims arising from defective products. We have experienced in the past, and may experience in the future, defects (commonly referred to as “bugs”) in our products which may not always be detected by testing processes. Defects can result from a variety of causes, including, but not limited to, manufacturing problems or third party intellectual property that we have incorporated into our products. If defects are discovered after our products have shipped, we have experienced, and could continue to experience, warranty and consequential damage claims from our customers. If we are unable to deliver quality products, our reputation would be harmed, which could result in the loss of future orders from our customers. Further, we may experience difficulties in achieving acceptable yields on some of our products, which may result in higher per unit cost, shipment delays, and increased expenses associated with resolving yield problems. If any of these adverse risks are realized and we are not able to offset the lost opportunities, our revenue, margins, and operating results would decline. If our forecasts of our OEM customers’ demand are inaccurate, our financial condition and liquidity would suffer. We place some orders with our suppliers based on the forecasts of our OEM customers’ demand. Our forecasts are based on multiple assumptions, each of which may introduce errors into our estimates. If we do not accurately forecast customer demand, we may allocate resources to manufacturing products that we may not be able to sell. As a result, as we experienced in the past, we could have excess or obsolete inventory, resulting in a decline in the value of our inventory, which would increase our cost of revenue, negatively affect gross margins, and reduce our liquidity. Similarly, if our forecast underestimates customer demand, we may forego revenue opportunities, lose market share, and damage customer relationships. Our failure to accurately manage inventory against demand would adversely affect our financial results. To remain competitive, we may need to migrate to smaller geometrical processes and our failure to do so may harm our business. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometrical processes, which are measured in microns or nanometers. We have in the past, and may in the future, experience some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which has resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries, and increased product costs and expenses. Additionally, upfront expenses associated with smaller geometrical process technologies such as for masks and tooling can be significantly higher than those for the processes that we currently use, and our migration to these newer process technologies can result in significantly higher research and development expenses. Third-party claims of infringement or other claims against us could adversely affect our ability to market our products, require us to redesign our products, or seek licenses from third parties, and harm our business. In addition, any litigation that we are required to defend regarding such claims could result in significant expenses and diversion of our resources. Other companies in the semiconductor industry and intellectual property holding companies often aggressively protect and pursue their intellectual property rights. From time-to-time, we receive, and we are likely to continue to receive in the future, notices that claim our products infringe upon other parties’ intellectual property rights. We may in the future be engaged in litigation with parties who claim that we have infringed their intellectual property rights or who may seek to invalidate one or more of our patents, and it is possible that we 34 Table of Contents would not prevail in any such lawsuit. An adverse determination in any of these types of claims could prevent us from manufacturing or selling some of our products, could increase our costs of products and could expose us to significant liability. In addition, a court could issue a preliminary or permanent injunction that could require us to stop selling certain products in that market or redesign certain products offered for sale or that are under development. In addition, we may be liable for damages for past infringement and royalties for future use of the technology and we may be liable for treble damages if infringement is found to have been willful. Even if claims against us are not valid or successfully asserted, these claims could nevertheless result in significant costs and a diversion of management and personnel resources to defend. Many companies in the semiconductor industry have significant patent portfolios. These companies and other parties may claim that our products infringe their proprietary rights. We may become involved in litigation as a result of allegations that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Any party asserting that our products infringe their proprietary rights could force us to defend ourselves, and possibly our customers, against the alleged infringement. These claims and any resulting lawsuit, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights. We could also be forced to do one or more of the following: • stop selling, incorporating, or using our products that utilize the challenged intellectual property; • obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, or we could be required us to make significant payments with respect to past or future sales of our products; • redesign those products that use any allegedly infringing technology, which may be costly and time-consuming; or • refund to our customers amounts received for allegedly infringing technology or products. Any potential dispute involving our patents or other intellectual property could also include our customers which could trigger our indemnification obligations to one or more of them and result in substantial expense to us. In any potential dispute or claim involving a third party’s patents or other intellectual property, our customers could also become the target of litigation. We are aware of certain instances in which third parties have recently notified our customers that their products (incorporating our technology) may infringe on the third parties’ technology. We expect that our customers may receive similar notices in the future. Because we have entered into agreements whereby we have agreed to indemnify our customers for intellectual property claims made against them for products incorporating our technology, any litigation could trigger indemnification obligations. Any indemnity claim could adversely affect our relationships with our OEM customers and result in substantial expense to us. Other data transmission technologies and communications processing technologies may compete effectively with the services enabled by our products, which could adversely affect our revenue and business. Our revenue currently is dependent upon the increase in demand for services that use broadband technology and integrated residential gateways. Besides xDSL and other discrete multi-tone (DMT)-based technologies, service providers can decide to deploy passive optical network or fiber and there would be reduced need for our products. If more service providers decide to extend fiber all the way to the home, commonly referred to as fiber to the home (FTTH) deployment, it could harm our xDSL business. Furthermore, residential gateways compete against a variety of different data distribution technologies, including Ethernet routers, set-top boxes provided by cable and satellite providers, wireless (WiFi and WiMax), and emerging power line and multimedia over coax alliance technologies. If any of these competing technologies proves to be more reliable, faster, less expensive, or has any other advantages over the broadband technologies we provide, the demand for our products may decrease and our business would be harmed. 35 Table of Contents Rapidly changing standards and regulations could make our products obsolete, which would cause our revenue and operating results to suffer. We design our products to conform to regulations established by governments and to standards set by industry standards bodies worldwide, such as the Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions (ATIS) and the International Telecommunication Union Telecommunication Standard (ITU-T). Because our products are designed to conform to current specific industry standards, if competing standards emerge that are preferred by our customers, we would have to make significant expenditures to develop new products. If our customers adopt new or competing industry standards with which our products are not compatible, industry groups adopt new standards, or governments issue new regulations with which our products are not compatible, our existing products would become less desirable to our customers, and our revenue and operating results would suffer. If we fail to secure or protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may be able to use our technologies, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our revenue, or increase our cost. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements, and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. From time-to-time we file new patent applications. These pending patent applications may not result in issued patents, and our existing and future patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies or may be determined to be invalid or unenforceable. While we are not currently aware of any misappropriation of our existing technology, policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our technologies, particularly unauthorized use in foreign countries where we have not applied for patent protection and, even if such protection was available, the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as United States law. The patents we have obtained or licensed, or may obtain or license in the future, may not be adequate to protect our proprietary rights. Our competitors may independently develop or may have already developed technology similar to us, duplicate our products, or design around any patents issued to us or our other intellectual property. In addition, we have been, and may be, required to license our patents as a result of our participation in various standards organizations. If competitors appropriate our technology and it is not adequately protected, our competitive position would be harmed, our legal costs would increase, and our revenue would decrease. Changes in current or future laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws or regulations by federal or state agencies or foreign governments could impede the sale of our products or otherwise harm our business. The effects of regulation on our customers and the industries in which they operate may materially and adversely impact our business. For example, various governments around the world have considered, and it is anticipated that others may consider, regulations that would limit or prohibit sales of certain telecommunications products manufactured in China. If these rules apply to equipment containing our semiconductor products, such regulation could reduce sales of our products and have a negative effect on our operating results. In addition, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications in Japan, the Ministry of Communications and Information in Korea, various national regulatory agencies in Europe, the European Commission in the European Union, and the U.S. Federal Communications Commission have broad jurisdiction over our target markets. Although the laws and regulations of these and other government agencies may not be directly applicable to our products, they do apply to much of the equipment into which our products are incorporated. Governmental regulatory agencies worldwide may affect the ability of telephone companies to offer certain services to their customers or other aspects of their business, which may in turn impede sales of our products. In addition to the laws and regulations specific to telecommunications equipment, other laws and regulations affect our business. For instance, changes in tax, employment, and import/export laws and regulations, and their enforcement, commonly occur in the countries in which we operate. If changes in those 36 Table of Contents laws and regulations, or in the enforcement of those laws and regulations, occur in a manner that we did not anticipate, those changes could cause us to have increased operating costs or to pay higher taxes, and thus have a negative effect on our operating results. Failure to maintain adequate internal controls as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) could harm our operating results, our ability to operate our business, and our investors’ view of us. If we do not maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of SOX. Effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, valuation of inventory, and warranty provisions, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important in helping to prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our common stock could drop significantly. We are exposed to legal, business, political, and economic risks associated with our international operations. We currently obtain substantially all of our manufacturing, assembly, and testing services from suppliers and subcontractors located outside of the United States, and have a significant portion of our research and development team located in India. In addition, 97%, 99%, and 98% of our revenue for 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively, were derived from sales to customers outside the United States. We have expanded our international business activities and may open other design and operational centers abroad. International operations are subject to many other inherent risks, including, but not limited to: • political, social, and economic instability, including war and terrorist acts; • exposure to different legal standards, particularly with respect to intellectual property; • trade and travel restrictions; • the imposition of governmental controls and restrictions or unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; • import and export license requirements and restrictions of the United States and each other country in which we operate; • foreign technical standards; • changes in tariffs; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • foreign currency exposure and fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • difficulties in collecting receivables from foreign entities or delayed revenue recognition; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Because we are currently almost wholly dependent on our foreign sales, as well as our research and development facilities located off-shore and operations in foreign jurisdictions, any of the factors described above could significantly harm our ability to produce quality products in a timely and cost effective manner, as well as our ability to increase or maintain our foreign sales. 37 Table of Contents Fluctuations in exchange rates among the U.S. dollar and other currencies in which we do business may adversely affect our operating results. We maintain extensive operations internationally. We have offices or facilities in China, France, Germany, India, Japan, Korea, and Taiwan. We incur a portion of our expenses in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including, predominantly, the Indian rupee and the Chinese yuan. A large portion of our cash is held by our international affiliates both in U.S. dollar and local currency denominations. As a result, we may experience foreign exchange gains or losses due to the volatility of these currencies compared to the U.S. dollar. Because we report our results in U.S. dollars, the difference in exchange rates in one period compared to another directly impacts period to period comparisons of our operating results. In addition, our sales have been historically denominated in U.S. dollars. Currency exchange rates have been especially volatile in the recent past and these currency fluctuations may make it difficult for us to predict and/or provide guidance on our results. Currently, we have not implemented any strategies to mitigate risks related to the impact of fluctuations in currency exchange rates and we cannot predict future currency exchange rate changes. Several of the facilities that manufacture our products, most of our OEM customers and the service providers they serve, and our California headquarters are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. Several of our subcontractors’ facilities that manufacture, assemble, and test our products, and most of our wafer foundries, are located in Malaysia, the Philippines, and Taiwan. Several of our large customers are located in Japan and Korea. The Asia-Pacific region has experienced significant earthquakes and other natural disasters in the past and will be subject to additional seismic activities in the future. Any earthquake or other natural disaster in these areas could significantly disrupt these manufacturing facilities’ production capabilities and could result in our experiencing a significant delay in delivery, or substantial shortage of wafers, in particular, and possibly in higher wafer prices, and our production costs in general. Natural disasters could also adversely affect our customers and their demand for our products. Our headquarters in California are also located near major earthquake fault lines. If there is a major earthquake or any other natural disaster in a region where one of our facilities is located, it could significantly disrupt our operations. Changes in our tax rates could affect our future results. Our future effective tax rates could be favorably or unfavorably affected by the absolute amount and future geographic distribution of our pre-tax income, our ability to successfully shift our operating activities to foreign jurisdictions and the amount and timing of intercompany payments from our foreign operations that are subject to U.S. income taxes. In addition, our subsidiary in India is currently being audited by the tax authorities in that country. Should the audit or any subsequent appeals result in a decision adverse to us, such decision could not only result in assessments for prior periods, but also an increased tax rate in future periods. New regulations related to “conflict minerals” may force us to incur additional expenses, may make our supply chain more complex, and may result in damage to our reputation with customers. On August 22, 2012, under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, the SEC adopted new requirements for companies that use certain minerals and metals, known as “conflict minerals,” in their products, whether or not these products are manufactured by third parties. These requirements will require companies to diligence, disclose, and report whether or not such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries. We believe some or all of these minerals are used in the manufacture of our products. The implementation of these new requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability, and pricing of such minerals. In addition, we will incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals and metals used in our products. Since our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins for these minerals and metals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we 38 Table of Contents implement, which may harm our reputation, could increase our costs, and could adversely affect our manufacturing operations. In such event, we may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict mineral free. Risks Related to the Tallwood Investment Tallwood Investors may exercise significant influence over us, including through their ability to elect three members of our Board of Directors. In August 2009, we sold 24 million shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase up to an additional 7.8 million shares of our common stock (such common stock and warrants collectively referred to as the Securities) to Tallwood III, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, Tallwood III Partners, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, Tallwood III Associates, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, and Tallwood III Annex, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (collectively referred to as the Tallwood Investors). The funds raised from the sale of the Securities funded a portion of our acquisition of the Broadband Access product line from Conexant Systems, Inc. In addition, one of the Tallwood Investors participated in our public offering of our common stock in 2010 and purchased an additional 5.6 million shares of our common stock. Tallwood Partners, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and an entity related to the Tallwood Investors, participated in our 2013 public offering and purchased an additional 2.0 million shares of our common stock. The common stock collectively owned by Tallwood Investors and Tallwood Partners, LLC (collectively referred to as the Tallwood Entities) represented approximately 32% of the outstanding shares of our common stock (excluding the exercise of warrants) as of December 29, 2013. Assuming the full exercise of the warrants, the common stock owned by the Tallwood Entities would represent approximately 37% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of December 29, 2013. In 2009, we entered into a stockholder agreement with the Tallwood Investors, which, among other things, contains certain governance arrangements and various provisions relating to board composition, stock ownership, transfers by the Tallwood Investors and their affiliates, voting, and other matters. Subject to certain exceptions, the Tallwood Investors are permitted under the terms of the stockholder agreement to maintain their ownership interest in us in subsequent equity offerings. Given their ownership interest in us, the Tallwood Entities may have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of any matter submitted for the vote of our stockholders. The Tallwood Entities may have interests that diverge from, or even conflict with, our interests and those of our other stockholders. In addition, the Certificate of Designation of the Series A Preferred Stock provides that the Tallwood Investors have the right to designate three directors to our Board of Directors while the Tallwood Investors (and entities related to the Tallwood Investors, such as Tallwood Partners, LLC) hold at least 35% of our outstanding common stock, including the warrants. In the event that the Tallwood Entities hold less than 35% of our common stock, the number of directors the Tallwood Entities can appoint to our Board of Directors becomes proportional to the Tallwood Entities’ ownership position in us at such time. As a result, the directors elected to our Board of Directors by the Tallwood Entities may exercise significant influence on matters considered by our Board of Directors. The market price of our common stock may decline as a result of future sales of our common stock by the Tallwood Entities. We are unable to predict the potential effects of the Tallwood Entities’ ownership of our outstanding common stock on the trading activity in and market price of our common stock. Pursuant to the stockholder agreement, we have granted the Tallwood Investors and their permitted transferees’ registration rights for the resale of the shares of our common stock and shares of our common stock underlying the warrants. Under the terms of the registration rights, if we file a registration statement it must permit the resale of such securities into the public market. Any such resale would increase the number of shares of our common stock available for public trading. Sales by the Tallwood Entities or their permitted transferees of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. 39 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 