ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information in this Form 10-K, before deciding whether to invest in shares of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business We have a limited operating history and our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed our forecasts or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. In addition, we have experienced high growth rates in our net revenue in recent fiscal quarters. We do not expect similar growth rates in future periods. We have a limited operating history which makes it difficult to evaluate our prospects. While our commercial operations began in 1999, we did not begin commercial shipments of our products until the fourth quarter of 2002. Since then, our quarterly net revenue and operating results have varied significantly and are likely to continue to vary from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. For example, in the quarter ended March 31, 2005, our net revenue decreased by $6.2 million, or 33.4%, from the previous quarter, ended December 31, 2004, but then increased by $7.0 million, or 56.6%, in the next quarter, ended June 30, 2005. Quarterly fluctuations in revenue are typical in our industry, and are likely to continue in the future. In addition, our expenses are also subject to quarterly fluctuations resulting from factors including the costs related to new product releases. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors for any quarter or other reporting period, the market price of our common stock may decline. Fluctuations in our operating results may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those identified throughout this "Risk Factors" section. As a result, you should not rely on quarter to quarter comparisons of our operating results as an indicator of future performance. In addition, in our last three fiscal quarters ended December 31, 2005, our net revenue has grown 56.6%, 30.0% and 14.1% quarter over quarter. We do not expect similar net revenue growth rates in future periods. We recently completed the NPA acquisition and if we are not successful in integrating the technology and employees from the acquisition into our existing business, then our operating results may be harmed. In February 2006, we completed the NPA acquisition. Through this acquisition, we added 46 employees in Hyderabad, India, 11 in Toronto, Canada and 17 in San Jose, California. This is our first acquisition and we face numerous challenges in integrating these employees into our organization as well as integrating the newly acquired technologies we purchased into our existing broadband solutions. The net revenue from the acquired business has been highly concentrated among customers. We do not have a prior relationship with many of these customers. The success of our business is dependent in part upon our ability to develop strong relationships with these customers and for the customers to continue to order network processing products from us. We may experience more difficulty and costs than we anticipate in integrating the technology we acquired in the NPA acquisition. Although we do have certain rights to seek indemnification from the seller in the event third parties make claims with respect to ownership of these technologies, these types of claims, if filed, are inherently costly to litigate and distract management from the operation of the business. In addition, we may not be successful in defending ourselves against any such claims. If customer demand for the network processing products we acquired in the NPA acquisition does not meet our expectations, we will have expended significant management and financial resources on assets that will not realize their revenue potential. If any of these risks were to be realized, our operating results would be harmed. 30 We expect our working capital requirements to increase significantly as a result of the NPA acquisition as that business has historically been, and may continue to be, operated on different, and frequently less favorable, terms than those we have historically negotiated to operate our fiber-fast broadband business. For example, payment terms on products shipped were generally on longer terms than we customarily provide. Additionally, purchasing decisions were frequently made in advance of receiving customer forecasts. As a result, we have a higher risk of excess inventory with respect to this business. If we are unsuccessful in addressing these challenges, our operating results may be harmed. We have a history of losses, and future losses may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We may not be able to generate sufficient net revenue in the future to achieve or sustain profitability. We first became profitable in the third fiscal quarter of 2005. We incurred significant net losses prior to that quarter. As a result of the NPA acquisition, we expect to experience a net loss in 2006 primarily relating to non-cash acquisition-related charges. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $86.6 million. To achieve or sustain profitability, we will need to generate and sustain higher net revenue while maintaining reasonable cost and expense levels. We expect to increase expense levels to support increased research and development efforts related to new and existing product development and sales and marketing efforts. Because many of our expenses are fixed in the short term, or are incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may not be able to decrease our costs and expenses in a timely manner to offset any shortfall of sales. Although we have recently achieved profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or an annual basis. If demand for our chipsets declines or does not grow, we will be unable to increase or sustain our net revenue and our operating results will be harmed. We currently expect our chipsets to account for substantially all of our net revenue for the foreseeable future. We began deriving revenues in the first quarter of 2006 from products related to the NPA acquisition. If we are unable to develop new products or successfully integrate the newly acquired products to meet our customers' demand in a timely manner or demand for our chipsets declines or fails to grow as a result of competition or technological changes, it would harm our business. The markets for our products are characterized by frequent introduction of new chipsets, short product life cycles and significant price competition. If we or our OEM customers are unable to manage product transitions in a timely and cost-effective manner, our net revenue would suffer. In addition, frequent technology changes and introduction of next generation products may result in inventory obsolescence, which would increase our cost of revenue and adversely affect our operating performance. The average selling prices of our products are subject to rapid declines, which may harm our net revenue and profitability. The products we develop and sell are used for high volume applications and are subject to rapid declines in average selling prices. We have lowered our prices significantly at times to gain market share, and we expect that we will continue to reduce prices in the future. Offering reduced prices to one customer could impact our average selling prices to all customers. Our financial results will suffer if we are unable to offset any future reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes, or if we are unable to reduce our costs and expenses or develop new or enhanced products on a timely basis with higher selling prices. 31 Because we depend on a few significant customers for a substantial portion of our net revenue, the loss of any of our key customers, our inability to continue to sell existing and new products to our key customers in significant quantities or our failure to attract new significant customers could adversely impact our net revenue and harm our business. We derive a substantial portion of our net revenue from sales to a relatively small number of customers. As a result, the loss of any significant customer or a decline in business with any significant customer would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The following OEM customers accounted for more than 10% of our net revenue for any one of the periods indicated. Sales made to these OEMs were made through the indicated third-party sales representatives: Percentage of our net revenue for year ended December 31, OEM Customer Sales Representative 2004 2005 NEC Corporation (Magnus) NEC Corporation (USA) 44.9 % 44.2 % Sumitomo Electric Industries, Ltd. Altima 22.9 27.8 Dasan Networks, Inc. Uniquest Corporation 11.3 11.6 Millinet Co., Ltd. Uniquest Corporation 6.7 5.4 We expect that a small group of OEM customers, the composition of which has varied over time, will continue to account for a substantial portion of our net revenue in 2006 and in the foreseeable future. In addition, we expect to continue to sell the network processing and ADSL products acquired in the NPA acquisition to the existing customer base for these products. The SAFRAN Group of, which Sagem Communication is a subsidiary, represented 73% of net sales for the acquired business for the year ended October 29, 2005. Accordingly, our future operating results will continue to depend on the success of our largest OEM customers and on our ability to sell existing and new products to these customers in significant quantities. Demand for our chipset products is based on carrier demand for our OEM customers' systems products. Accordingly, a reduction in growth of carrier deployment of fiber-fast broadband services would adversely affect our product sales and business. In addition, our longstanding relationships with some of our larger OEM customers may also deter other potential customers who compete with these customers from buying our products. To attract new customers or retain existing OEM customers, we have offered and may continue to offer certain customers favorable prices on our products. If these prices are lower than the prices paid by our existing OEM customers, we may have to offer the same lower prices to certain of our customers. In that event, our average selling prices would decline. The loss of a key customer, a reduction in sales to any major customer or our inability to attract new significant customers could harm our business. Because of the rapid nature of technological development in our industry and the intense competition we face, our products become outmoded in a relatively short period of time, which requires us to provide frequent updates and/or replacements to existing products. If we do not successfully manage the transition process to next generation chipset products, our operating results may be harmed. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological innovation and intense competition. Accordingly, our success depends in part on our ability to develop next generation chipset products in a timely and cost-effective manner. The development of new chipset products is complex and time consuming. If we do not rapidly develop our next generation chipset products ahead of our competitors, we may lose both existing and potential customers to our competitors. Conversely, even if we are successful in rapidly developing new chipset products ahead of our competitors and we do not cost-effectively manage our inventory levels of existing products when making the transition to the new chipset products, our financial results may be negatively affected by high levels of obsolete inventory. If either of the foregoing were to occur, then our operating results would be harmed. 32 We rely on a limited number of independent subcontractors to manufacture, package and test our current products, and our failure to secure and maintain sufficient capacity with these subcontractors could impair our relationships with customers and decrease sales, which would negatively impact our market share and operating results. We are a fabless semiconductor company in that we do not own or operate a fabrication or manufacturing facility. Seven outside factory subcontractors located in Taiwan, Austria, Malaysia, Singapore, Korea and China manufacture, assemble and test all of our semiconductor devices in current production, two of which are also our wafer foundries. In addition, in connection with the NPA acquisition, we did not assume specific supply contracts and will need to form relationships with the former suppliers of key components for network processing products. We do not have existing relationships with these suppliers and can make no assurances that these suppliers will continue to provide supplies under the same or similar terms as they had done prior to the NPA acquisition. In past periods of high demand in the semiconductor market, we have experienced delays in meeting our capacity demand and as a result were unable to deliver products to our customers on a timely basis. In addition, we have experienced similar delays due to technical and quality control problems at our subcontractors' facilities. In the future, if any of these events occur, or if these facilities suffer any damage, power outages, financial difficulties or any other disruption, we may be unable to meet our customer demand on a timely basis, or at all, and may need to successfully qualify an alternative facility in a timely manner in order to not disrupt our business. We typically require several months or more to qualify a new facility or process before we can begin shipping products. If we cannot accomplish this qualification in a timely manner, we would experience a significant interruption in supply of the affected products. If we are unable to secure sufficient capacity at our subcontractors' existing facilities, or in the event of a closure or significant delay at any of these facilities, our relationships with our customers would be harmed and our market share and operating results would suffer as a result. In addition, we do not have formal pricing agreements with our subcontractors regarding the pricing for the products and services that they provide us. If their pricing for the products and services they provide increases and we are unable to pass along such increases to our OEM customers, our operating results would be adversely affected. When demand for manufacturing capacity is high, we may take various actions to try to secure sufficient capacity, which may be costly and negatively impact our operating results. The ability of each of our subcontractors' manufacturing facilities to provide us with semiconductors is limited by its available capacity and existing obligations. Although we have purchase order commitments to supply specified levels of products to our OEM customers, we do not have a guaranteed level of production capacity from any of our subcontractors' facilities that we depend on to produce our semiconductors. Facility capacity may not be available when we need it or at reasonable prices. We place our orders on the basis of our OEM customers' purchase orders or our forecast of customer demand, and our subcontractors may not be able to meet our requirements in a timely manner. For example, in 2003 and the first nine months of 2004 as well as the second half of 2005 and continuing, general market conditions in the semiconductor industry resulted in a significant increase in demand at these facilities. The demand for our OEM customers' products increased significantly and we were asked to produce significantly higher quantities than in the past and to deliver on short notice. In addition, our subcontractors have also allocated capacity to the production of other companies' products and reduced deliveries to us on short notice. It is possible that our subcontractors' other customers that are larger and better financed than we are, or that have long-term agreements with our subcontractors, may have induced our subcontractors to reallocate capacity to them. If this reallocation were to occur again, it could impair our ability to deliver products on a timely basis. Although we use two independent wafer foundries to manufacture all of our semiconductor products, each of our products is designed to be manufactured in a specific process at only one of these wafer foundries. Accordingly, if one of these wafer foundries were unable to provide us with 33 semiconductors as needed, we could experience significant delays in securing sufficient supplies of those semiconductors. We cannot assure you that any of the existing or new wafer foundries that we use will be able to produce semiconductor devices with acceptable manufacturing yields, or that the wafer foundries will be able to deliver enough devices to us on a timely basis, or at reasonable prices. This could impair our ability to meet our OEM customers' needs. In order to secure sufficient manufacturing facility capacity when demand is high and mitigate the risks described in the foregoing paragraphs, we may enter into various arrangements with subcontractors that could be costly and harm our operating results, including: •option payments or other prepayments to a subcontractor; •nonrefundable deposits with or loans to subcontractors in exchange for capacity commitments; •contracts that commit us to purchase specified quantities of components over extended periods; •purchase of testing equipment for specific use at our subcontractors' facilities; •issuance of our equity securities to a subcontractor; and •other contractual relationships with subcontractors. We may not be able to make any such arrangements in a timely fashion or at all, and any arrangements may be costly, reduce our financial flexibility and not be on terms favorable to us. Moreover, if we are able to secure facility capacity, we may be obligated to use all of that capacity or incur penalties. These penalties and obligations may be expensive and require significant capital and could harm our business. In the event we seek to use new wafer foundries to manufacture a portion of our semiconductor products, we may not be able to bring the new foundries on-line rapidly enough and may not achieve the anticipated cost reductions. As indicated, we use two independent wafer foundries to manufacture all of our semiconductor products, which exposes us to a substantial risk of delay, increased costs and customer dissatisfaction in the event that either one of these foundries were unable to provide us with our semiconductor requirements. Particularly during times when semiconductor capacity is limited, we may seek to qualify additional wafer foundries to meet our requirements. In order to bring these new foundries on-line, our customers would need to qualify the new facility, which process could take as long as several months. Once qualified, these new foundries would then require an additional number of months to actually begin producing semiconductors to meet our needs, by which time our perceived need for additional capacity may have passed or the opportunities we previously identified may have been lost to our competitors. Furthermore, even if these new foundries offer better pricing than our existing manufacturers, if they prove to be less reliable than our existing manufacturers, we would not achieve some or all of our anticipated cost reductions. If our subcontractors' manufacturing facilities do not achieve satisfactory yields or quality, our relationships with our customers and our reputation will be harmed and, if this were to occur, our net revenue and operating income could decline and our cost of revenue as a percentage of net revenue could increase. The fabrication of semiconductors is a complex and technically demanding process. Minor deviations in the manufacturing process can cause substantial decreases in yields, and in some cases, cause production to be stopped or suspended. Although we work closely with our subcontractors to minimize the likelihood of reduced manufacturing yields, their facilities have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields that have resulted in our inability to meet our customer demand. It is not uncommon for yields in semiconductor fabrication facilities to decrease in times of high demand, in addition to reduced yields that may result from normal wafer lot loss due to workmanship or operational problems at these facilities. When these events occur, especially 34 simultaneously, as happens from time to time, we may be unable to supply our customers' demand. Many of these problems are difficult to detect at an early stage of the manufacturing process and may be time consuming and expensive to correct. In addition, because we purchase wafers, our exposure to low wafer yields from our subcontractors' wafer foundries is increased. Poor yields from the wafer foundries or defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our products could cause us significant customer relations and business reputation problems, or force us to sell our products at lower gross margins and therefore harm our financial results. Conversely, unexpected yield improvements could result in us holding excess inventory that would also negatively impact our gross margins. In addition, manufacturing defects may not be detected by the testing process performed by our subcontractors. If defects are discovered after we have shipped our products, our reputation would be harmed and our net revenue and operating income could decline and our cost of revenue as a percentage of net revenue could increase. We base orders for inventory on our forecasts of our OEM customers' demand and if our forecasts are inaccurate, our financial condition and liquidity would suffer. We place orders with our suppliers based on our forecasts of our OEM customers' demand. Our forecasts are based on multiple assumptions, each of which may introduce errors into our estimates. In the past, when the demand for our OEM customers' products increased significantly, we were not able to meet demand on a timely basis, and we expended a significant amount of time working with our customers to allocate limited supply and maintain positive customer relations. If we underestimate customer demand, we may forego revenue opportunities, lose market share and damage our customer relationships. Conversely, if we overestimate customer demand, we may allocate resources to manufacturing products that we may not be able to sell when we expect to or at all. As a result, we would have excess or obsolete inventory, resulting in a decline in the value of our inventory, which would increase our cost of revenue and create a drain on our liquidity. Our failure to accurately manage inventory against demand would adversely affect our financial results. To remain competitive, we need to continue to transition our semiconductor chips to increasingly smaller sizes, and our failure to do so may harm our business. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller chips, which are measured in microns and referred to as geometry processes. We have designed our products to be manufactured in 0.8 micron, 0.25 micron, 0.18 micron and 0.13 micron geometry processes. We are currently migrating some of our products to even smaller 90-nanometer geometry process technology, and over time, we are likely to migrate to even smaller geometries. The smaller chip size reduces our production and packaging costs, which enables us to be competitive in our pricing. The transition to smaller geometries requires us to work with our subcontractors to modify the manufacturing processes for our products and to redesign some products. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers, and our failure to do so would impact our ability to provide competitive prices to our customers, which would have a negative impact on our sales. We face intense competition in the semiconductor industry and the broadband communications markets, which could reduce our market share and negatively impact our net revenue. The semiconductor industry and the broadband communications markets are intensely competitive. We currently compete or expect to compete with, among others, Broadcom Corporation, Centillium Communications, Inc., Conexant Systems, Inc., Infineon Technologies A.G., Marvell Technology Group Ltd., Metalink Ltd., STMicroelectronics N.V. and Texas Instruments Incorporated, which 35 companies, we believe, have experience in very-high-bit-rate-digital subscriber line, or VDSL, or VDSL-like, technology. We also expect to compete with Freescale Semiconductor, Inc., Intel Corporation, Marvell Technology Group Ltd., PMC-Sierra, Inc. and Realtek Semiconductor Corp., in the network processing market. We expect competition to continue to increase. Competition has resulted and may continue to result in declining average selling prices for our products and reduced volume. We consider other companies that have access to discrete multi-tone, or DMT, technology as potential competitors in the future, and we also may face competition from newly established competitors, suppliers of products based on new or emerging technologies and customers who choose to develop their own chipsets. To remain competitive, we need to provide products that are designed to meet our customers' needs. Our products must: •achieve optimal product performance; •comply with industry standards; •be cost-effective for our customers' use in their systems; •meet functional specifications; •be introduced timely to the market; and •be supported by a high-level of customer service and support. Many of our competitors operate their own fabrication facilities or have stronger manufacturing partner relationships than we have. In addition, many of our competitors have extensive technology libraries that could enable them to incorporate fiber-fast broadband or network processing technologies into a more attractive product line than ours. Many of them also have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than we do. These competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers, resellers or other third parties. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Existing or new competitors may also develop technologies that more effectively address our markets with products that offer enhanced features and functionality, lower power requirements, greater levels of semiconductor integration or lower cost. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or new competitors, in which case we may lose market share in our existing markets and our net revenue may fail to increase or may decline. Other data transmission technologies and network processing technologies may compete effectively with the carrier services addressed by our products, which could adversely affect our product sales and business. Our net revenue is dependent on the increase in demand for carrier services that use integrated residential gateways. Residential gateways compete against a variety of different data transmission technologies, including other DMT-based technologies, cable modem and satellite and other wireless technologies. If any of these competing technologies proves to be more reliable, faster or less expensive than, or has any other advantages over, the fiber-fast broadband technologies we provide, the demand for our products may decrease and our business would be harmed. We rely on third-party technologies for the development of our products and our inability to use such technologies in the future would harm our ability to remain competitive. We rely on third parties for technologies that are integrated into some of our products, including memory cells, input/output cells and core processor logic. If we are unable to continue to use or license these technologies on reasonable terms, or if these technologies fail to operate properly, we may not be 36 able to secure alternatives in a timely manner and our ability to remain competitive would be harmed. In addition, if we are unable to successfully license technology from third parties to develop future products, we may not be able to develop such products in a timely manner or at all. We may be unable to attract, retain and motivate key senior management and technical personnel, which could harm our development of technology and ability to be competitive. Our future success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our key personnel, including our President and Chief Executive Officer, Rajesh Vashist, and our other senior executives and key technical personnel. Except for Mr. Vashist, we do not have employment agreements with any of these executives or any other key employees that govern the length of their service. The loss of the services of Mr. Vashist or other senior management or technical personnel could harm our business. Furthermore, our future success depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate other senior management and qualified technical personnel, particularly software engineers, digital circuit designers, mixed-signal circuit designers and systems and algorithms engineers, and we are currently in the process of trying to hire a vice president of engineering. Competition for these employees is intense. Stock options and other equity incentives generally comprise a significant portion of our compensation packages for all employees, and the expected volatility in the price of our common stock may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain key employees, which could harm our ability to provide technologically competitive products. If we are unable to develop, introduce or to achieve market acceptance of our new chipset products, our operating results would be adversely affected. Our future success depends on our ability to develop new chipset products and transition to new products, introduce these products in a cost-effective and timely manner and convince OEMs to select our products for design into their new systems. Our historical quarterly results have been, and we expect that our future results will continue to be, dependent on the introduction of a relatively small number of new products and the timely completion and delivery of those products to customers. The development of new chipset products is complex, and from time to time we have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. We have in the past invested substantial resources in emerging technologies that did not achieve the market acceptance that we had expected. Our ability to develop and deliver new chipset products successfully will depend on various factors, including our ability to: •successfully integrate the technologies acquired in the NPA acquisition into our product lines; •accurately predict market requirements and evolving industry standards; •accurately define new chipset products; •timely complete and introduce new product designs; •timely qualify and obtain industry interoperability certification of our products and the equipment into which our products will be incorporated; •ensure that our subcontractors have sufficient foundry capacity and packaging materials and achieve acceptable manufacturing yields; •shift our products to smaller geometry process technologies to achieve lower cost and higher levels of design integration; and •gain market acceptance of our products and our OEM customers' products. 37 If we are unable to develop and introduce new chipset products successfully and in a cost-effective and timely manner, we will not be able to attract new customers or retain our existing customers, which would harm our business. Our success is dependent on achieving design wins into commercially successful OEM systems. Our products are generally incorporated into our OEMs customers' systems at the design stage. As a result, we rely on OEMs to select our products to be designed into their systems, which we refer to as a design win. We often incur significant expenditures on the development of a new product without any assurance that an OEM will select our product for design into its own system. Additionally, in some instances, we are dependent on third parties to obtain or provide information that we need to achieve a design win. Some of these third parties may not supply this information to us on a timely basis, if at all. Furthermore, even if an OEM designs one of our products into its system offering, we cannot be assured that its equipment will be commercially successful or that we will receive any net revenue as a result of that design win. Our OEM customers are typically not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to stop using our products if their own systems are not commercially successful, if they decide to pursue other systems strategies, or for any other reason. If we are unable to achieve design wins or if our OEM customers' systems incorporating our products are not commercially successful, our net revenue would suffer. Acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or investments may impair our capital and equity resources, divert our management's attention or otherwise negatively impact our operating results. We intend to continue to actively pursue acquisitions, strategic partnerships and joint ventures that we believe may allow us to complement our growth strategy, increase market share in our current markets and expand into adjacent markets, broaden our technology and intellectual property and strengthen our relationships with carriers and OEMs. Any future acquisition, partnership joint venture or investment may require that we pay significant cash, issue stock or incur substantial debt. Acquisitions, partnerships or joint ventures may also result in the loss of key personnel and the dilution of existing stockholders as a result of issuing equity securities. In addition, acquisitions, partnerships or joint ventures require significant managerial attention, which may be diverted from our other operations. These capital, equity and managerial commitments may impair the operation of our business. Furthermore, acquired businesses may not be effectively integrated, may be unable to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships, may contribute to increased fixed costs and may expose us to unanticipated liabilities and otherwise harm our operating results. We rely on third-party sales representatives to assist in selling our products, and the failure of these representatives to perform as expected could reduce our future sales. We sell our products to some of our OEM customers through third-party sales representatives. Our relationships with some of our third-party sales representatives have been established within the last three years, and we are unable to predict the extent to which our third-party sales representatives will be successful in marketing and selling our products. Moreover, many of our third-party sales representatives also market and sell competing products. Our third-party sales representatives may terminate their relationships with us at any time. Our future performance will also depend, in part, on our ability to attract additional third-party sales representatives that will be able to market and support our products effectively, especially in markets in which we have not previously distributed our products. If we cannot retain our current third-party sales representatives or recruit additional or replacement third-party sales representatives, our sales and operating results could be harmed. 38 Rapidly changing standards and regulations could make our products obsolete, which would cause our sales and operating results to suffer. We design our products to conform to regulations established by governments and to standards set by industry standards bodies such as The American National Standards Institute (ANSI) and The Committee T1E1.4 in North America, European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI) in Europe and ITU-T and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. (IEEE) worldwide. Because our products are designed to conform to current specific industry standards, if competing standards emerge that are preferred by our customers, we would have to make significant expenditures to develop new products. If our customers adopt new or competing industry standards with which our products are not compatible, or the industry groups adopt standards or governments issue regulations with which our products are not compatible, our existing products would become less desirable to our customers and our sales and operating results would suffer. If we fail to secure or protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may be able to use our technologies, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our net revenue or increase our costs. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights in the United States. We do not currently have any applications on file in any foreign jurisdictions with respect to our intellectual property notwithstanding the fact that a significant portion of our net revenue is generated abroad. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents, and our existing and future patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies or may be held invalid or unenforceable in court. While we are not currently aware of misappropriation of our existing technology, policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our technologies, particularly in foreign countries where we have not applied for patent protections and, even if such protections were available, the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as U.S. law. The patents we have obtained or licensed, or may obtain or license in the future, may not be adequate to protect our proprietary rights. Our competitors may independently develop or may have already developed technology similar to ours, duplicate our products or design around any patents issued to us or our other intellectual property. In addition, we may be required to license our patents as a result of our participation in various standards organizations. If competitors appropriate our technology and we are not adequately protected, our competitive position would be harmed, our legal costs would increase and our net revenue would be harmed. Third-party claims of infringement or other claims against us could adversely affect our ability to market our products, require us to redesign our products or seek licenses from third parties, and harm our business. In addition, any litigation required to defend such claims could result in significant costs and diversion of our resources. Companies in the semiconductor industry often aggressively protect and pursue their intellectual property rights. From time to time, we receive, and may continue to receive in the future, notices that claim we have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused other parties' proprietary rights. While we are not aware that we are currently infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties, we may in the future be engaged in litigation with parties who claim that we have infringed their patents or misappropriated or misused their trade secrets or who may seek to invalidate one or more of our patents, and it is possible that we would not prevail in any future lawsuits. An adverse determination in any of these types of claims could prevent us from manufacturing or selling some of our products, could increase our costs of products and could expose us to significant liability. Any of these claims 39 could harm our business. For example, in a patent or trade secret action, a court could issue a preliminary or permanent injunction that would require us to withdraw or recall certain products from the market or redesign certain products offered for sale or that are under development. In addition, we may be liable for damages for past infringement and royalties for future use of the technology and we may be liable for treble damages if infringement is found to have been willful. Even if claims against us are not valid or successfully asserted, these claims could result in significant costs and a diversion of management and personnel resources to defend. Any potential dispute involving our patents or other intellectual property could also include our manufacturing subcontractors and OEM customers, which could trigger our indemnification obligations to them and result in substantial expense to us. In any potential dispute involving our patents or other intellectual property, our manufacturing subcontractors and OEM customers could also become the target of litigation. Because we often indemnify our customers for intellectual property claims made against them for products incorporating our technology, any litigation could trigger technical support and indemnification obligations in some of our license agreements, which could result in substantial expenses. While to date none of our OEM customers has made an indemnification claim against us, in the event an indemnification claim were made, it could adversely affect our relationships with our OEM customers and result in substantial costs to us. Our products typically have lengthy sales cycles, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate and result in volatility in the price of our common stock. An OEM customer or a carrier may decide to cancel or change its product plans, which could cause us to lose anticipated sales. After we have delivered a product to an OEM customer, the OEM will usually test and evaluate our product with its carrier customer prior to the OEM completing the design of its own equipment that will incorporate our product. Our OEM customers and the carriers may need three to more than six months to test, evaluate and adopt our product and an additional three to more than nine months to begin volume production of equipment that incorporates our product. Due to this lengthy sales cycle, we may experience significant delays from the time we increase our operating expenses and make investments in inventory until the time that we generate net revenue from these products. It is possible that we may never generate any net revenue from these products after incurring these expenditures and investments. Even if an OEM customer selects our product to incorporate into its equipment, we have no assurances that the customer will ultimately market and sell its equipment or that such efforts by our customer will be successful. The delays inherent in our lengthy sales cycle increase the risk that an OEM customer or carrier will decide to cancel or change its product plans. From time to time, we have experienced changes and cancellations in the purchase plans of our OEM customers. A cancellation or change in plans by an OEM customer or carrier could cause us to not achieve anticipated net revenue and result in volatility of the price of our common stock. In addition, our anticipated sales could be lost or substantially reduced if a significant OEM customer or carrier reduces or delays orders during our sales cycle or chooses not to release equipment that contains our products. As our international manufacturing, sales and research and development operations expand, we will be increasingly exposed to various legal, business, political and economic risks associated with our international operations. We currently obtain substantially all of our manufacturing, assembly and testing services from suppliers and subcontractors located outside the United States, and have a significant portion of our research and development team located in Bangalore and Hyderabad, India. In addition, 99.5% of our net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005 and 99.8% of our net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2004 was derived from sales to customers outside the United States. Additionally, 98.9% 40 of the net sales for the year ended October 29, 2005 of the network processing business we acquired in the NPA acquisition were derived from sales to customers outside of the United States. We have expanded our international business activities and may open other design and operational centers abroad. International operations are subject to many other inherent risks, including but not limited to: •political, social and economic instability, including terrorist acts; •exposure to different legal standards, particularly with respect to intellectual property; •natural disasters and public health emergencies; •trade and travel restrictions; •the imposition of governmental controls and restrictions or unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; •burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; •import and export license requirements and restrictions of the United States and each other country in which we operate; •foreign technical standards; •changes in tariffs; •difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; •fluctuations in currency exchange rates; •difficulties in collecting receivables from foreign entities or delayed revenue recognition; and •potentially adverse tax consequences. Because we are currently substantially dependent on our foreign sales, research and development and operations, any of the factors described above could significantly harm our ability to produce quality products in a timely and cost effective manner, and increase or maintain our foreign sales. Significant fluctuations or a slowdown in deployment of fiber extension over copper and broadband over copper in Asia would adversely affect our operating results. Sales to customers located in Asia accounted for 97.2% of our net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2004 and 97.8% for the year ended December 31, 2005. Our sales have been dependent on the continuous growth of new fiber extension over copper and broadband over copper subscribers in Asia. Fluctuations in or a plateau of new subscribers in Asia could impact our net revenue and a sustained slow down in growth of fiber extension over copper and broadband over copper subscribers in Asia may cause our net revenue to decline. We are in the process of implementing a new ERP system, which could disrupt our operations, negatively impact our sales volume and net revenue and adversely affect our ability to integrate the assets we acquired in the NPA acquisition. In January 2006, we completed the first of many phases of a new comprehensive enterprise resource planning, or ERP, information system to manage our business operations, and subsequent enhancements to this new system could disrupt our operations. We have experienced difficulties in the past in implementing new information systems. The process of implementing new information systems could also adversely impact our ability to do the following in a timely manner: •report financial results; •accurately reflect inventory costs; 41 •accept and process customer orders; •receive inventory and ship products; •invoice and collect receivables; •place purchase orders and pay invoices; and •accurately reflect all other business transactions related to the finance, order entry, purchasing, supply chain and human resource processes within the new ERP information system. Fluctuations in exchange rates between the Japanese yen, the Korean won, the Indian rupee, the U.S. dollar, the Canadian dollar and the euro, as well as other currencies in which we do business, may adversely affect our operating results. We transact business in an international environment. As a result, we may experience foreign exchange gains or losses due to the volatility of other currencies compared to the U.S. dollar. Our sales have been historically denominated in U.S. dollars and an increase in the U.S. dollar relative to the currencies of the countries that our customers operate in could materially affect our Asian customers' demand for our products, thereby forcing them to reduce their orders, which would adversely affect our business. We recently began to generate a portion of our revenues and expenses in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including the Japanese yen, Korean won, Indian rupee, Canadian dollar and the euro. As we report our results in U.S. dollars, the difference in exchange rates in one period compared to another directly impacts period to period comparisons of our operating results. Furthermore, currency exchange rates have been especially volatile in the recent past and these currency fluctuations may make it difficult for us to predict and/or provide guidance on our results. Currently we have not implemented any strategies to mitigate risks related to the impact of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Even if we were to implement hedging strategies, not every exposure is or can be hedged, and, where hedges are put in place based on expected foreign exchange exposure, they are based on forecasts which may vary or which may later prove to have been inaccurate. Failure to hedge successfully or anticipate currency risks properly could adversely affect our operating results. We cannot predict future currency exchange rate changes. We have historically derived a substantial amount of our net revenue from Asia, and with the NPA acquisition, we expect to derive a majority of our network processing revenues from a single customer in Europe. If we fail to diversify the geographic sources and customer base of our net revenue in the future, our operating results could be harmed. A substantial portion of our net revenue has historically been derived from sales into Japan and Korea, and our net revenue has been heavily dependent on developments in these markets. As a result, our sales are subject to economic downturns, decrease in demand and overall negative market conditions in Asia. As a result of the NPA acquisition, we expect to continue to sell network processing products to the existing customer base for these products, of which a substantial majority of the revenues are from a single customer in Europe. While part of our strategy is to continue to diversify the geographic sources and customer base of our net revenue, our failure to successfully penetrate markets outside of Japan and Korea, and to successfully diversify our customer base in Europe, could harm our business and operating results. The complexity of our products could result in unforeseen delays or expenses and in undetected defects or bugs, which could damage our reputation with current or prospective customers and adversely affect the market acceptance of new products. Highly complex products such as those that we offer frequently contain defects and bugs, particularly when they are first introduced or as new versions are released. In the past we have 42 experienced, and may in the future experience, defects and bugs in our products. If any of our products contains defects or bugs, or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged and our OEM customers may be reluctant to buy our products, which could harm our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. In addition, these defects or bugs could interrupt or delay sales or shipment of our products to our customers. Recent changes to environmental laws and regulations applicable to manufacturers of electrical and electronic equipment are causing us to redesign our products, and may result in increases to our costs and greater exposure to liability. The implementation of new environmental regulatory legal requirements, such as lead free initiatives, could impact our product designs and manufacturing processes. The impact of such regulations on our product designs and manufacturing processes could affect the timing of compliant product introductions as well as their commercial success. For example, a recent directive in the European Union bans the use of lead and other heavy metals in electrical and electronic equipment after July 1, 2006. As a result, in advance of this deadline, some of our customers selling products in Europe have begun demanding product from component manufacturers that do not contain these banned substances. Because most of our existing assembly processes (as well as those of most other manufacturers) utilize a tin-lead alloy as a soldering material in the manufacturing process, we must redesign many of our products if we are to meet customer demand. This redesign may result in increased research and development and manufacturing and quality control costs. In addition, the products that we manufacture that comply with the new regulatory standards may not perform as well as our current products. Moreover, if we are unable to successfully and timely redesign existing products and introduce new products that meet the standards set by environmental regulation and our customers, sales of our products could decline, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have incurred increased costs as a result of being a public company. Recently enacted and proposed changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley, and recent rules enacted and proposed by the SEC and the Nasdaq National Market, are resulting in increased costs to us as we respond to their requirements. In particular, the costs to comply with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, as presently in effect, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The new rules could also make it more difficult for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage and/or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, on committees of our board of directors, or as executive officers. Compliance with the requirements imposed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could harm our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investors' view of us. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006, we will be required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. In order to achieve compliance with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley within the prescribed period, we have commenced a process to document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting, which will be both costly and challenging. We can provide no assurance as to our or our independent auditors' conclusions with respect to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley. There is a risk that neither we nor our independent auditors will be able to conclude 43 that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective as required by Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley. In addition, during the course of our testing we may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by Sarbanes-Oxley for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. Furthermore, if we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley. Effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. Due to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor and telecommunications industries, our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and subject to rapid change and evolving industry standards and, from time to time, has experienced significant downturns. These downturns are characterized by decreases in product demand, excess customer inventories and accelerated erosion of prices. These factors could cause substantial fluctuations in our net revenue and in our operating results. Any downturns in the semiconductor or broadband communications industry may be severe and prolonged, and any failure of this industry or the broadband communications markets to fully recover from downturns could harm our business. The semiconductor industry also periodically experiences increased demand and production capacity constraints, which may affect our ability to ship products. Accordingly, our operating results may vary significantly as a result of the general conditions in the semiconductor or broadband communications industry, which could cause our stock price to decline. In addition, the telecommunications industry from time to time has experienced and may again experience a pronounced downturn. To respond to a downturn, many carriers may be required to slow their capital expenditures, cancel or delay new developments, reduce their workforces and inventories and take a cautious approach to acquiring new equipment and technologies from OEMs, which would have a negative impact on our business. In the future, a downturn in the telecommunications industry may cause our operating results to fluctuate from year to year, which also may tend to increase the volatility of the price of our common stock and harm our business. Several of the facilities that manufacture our products, most of our OEM customers and the carriers they serve, and our California facility are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. Several of our subcontractors' facilities that manufacture, assemble and test our products, and one of our subcontractor's wafer foundries, are located in Taiwan. Our customers are currently primarily located in Japan and Korea. The Asia-Pacific region has experienced significant earthquakes in the past and could be subject to additional seismic activities. Any earthquake or other natural disaster in these areas could significantly disrupt these manufacturing facilities' production capabilities and could result in our experiencing a significant delay in delivery, or substantial shortage, of wafers in particular, and possibly in higher wafer prices, and our products in general. Our headquarters in California are also located near major earthquake fault lines. If there is a major earthquake or any other natural disaster in a region where one of our facilities is located, it could significantly disrupt our operations. 44 Changes in our tax rates could affect our future results. Our future effective tax rates could be favorably or unfavorably affected by the absolute amount and future geographic distribution of our pre-tax income, our ability to successfully shift our operating activities to our foreign operations and the amount and timing of intercompany payments from our foreign operations subject to U.S. income taxes related to the transfer of certain rights and functions. The requirement to expense stock options in our income statement could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results, and we do not know how the market will react to reduced earnings. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, and other agencies have made changes to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP, that requires us, starting in our first quarter of fiscal 2006, to record a charge to earnings for the estimated fair value of employee stock option grants and other equity incentives, whereas under existing accounting rules charges are required only for the intrinsic value, if any, of such awards to employees. We may have significant and ongoing accounting charges under the new rules resulting from option grants and other equity incentive expensing, which could reduce our overall net income. In addition, since we historically have used equity-related compensation as a component of our total employee compensation program, the accounting change could make the use of stock options less attractive to us or require us to pay more cash compensation and therefore make it more difficult for us to attract and retain employees. We plan to grant options and restricted stock units as part of our regular annual equity compensation program. The impact of the fair value of these grants cannot be predicted at this time because it will depend on the number of share-based payments granted and the then current fair values. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our stock price is volatile, and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid, or at all. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially since our initial public offering and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. Fluctuations have occurred and may continue to occur in response to various factors, many of which we cannot control, including: •quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results; •changes in accounting rules, particularly those related to the expensing of stock options; •announcements of changes in our senior management; •the gain or loss of one or more significant customers or suppliers; •announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors, customers or us; •the gain or loss of market share in any of our markets; •general economic and political conditions and specific conditions in the semiconductor industry and broadband technology markets, including seasonality in sales of consumer products into which our products are incorporated; •continuing international conflicts and acts of terrorism; •changes in earnings estimates or investment recommendations by analysts; •changes in investor perceptions; or 45 •changes in expectations relating to our products, plans and strategic position or those of our competitors or customers. In addition, the market prices of securities of semiconductor and other technology companies have been volatile, particularly companies, like ours, with low trading volumes. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid. In the past, we and other companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their securities have been, and in the future we may be, the subject of securities class action litigation. Class action litigation due to stock price volatility or other factors could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. Companies such as ours in the semiconductor industry and other technology industries are particularly vulnerable to this kind of litigation due to the high volatility of their stock prices. While we are not aware of any such contemplated class action litigation against us, we may in the future be the target of securities litigation. Any securities litigation could result in substantial costs and could divert the attention and resources of our management. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue an adverse opinion regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us issue an adverse opinion regarding our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Substantial future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall. As of December 31, 2005, we had 23,799,844 shares of common stock outstanding. Of these shares, 6,400,000 were recently sold in our initial public offering and are freely tradable under federal and state securities laws without further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, except that any shares held by our "affiliates" (as that term is defined under Rule 144 of the Securities Act) may be sold only in compliance with the limitations under Rule 144. We expect to file a registration statement on Form S-1 with the SEC in which we intend to offer additional shares of our common stock on behalf of us and certain stockholders which we refer to as the public offering. The remaining outstanding shares after completion of the initial public offering are "restricted securities" and generally will be available for sale in the public market as follows: •approximately 17,300,000 shares, which are subject to lock-up agreements with the underwriters of our initial public offering, will be eligible for sale at various times, pursuant to Rules 144 and 701 of the Securities Act. The underwriters may, however, release all or a portion of the shares subject to lock-up agreements at any time without notice. To the extent shares are released before the expiration of the lock-up period and the shares are sold into the market, the market price of our common stock could decline. To the extent we complete the proposed offering and the underwriters require lock-up agreements from selling stockholders, management and directors, a portion of the shares to be released from the initial public offering lock-up agreement will remain subject to a further lock-up for a period of time to be determined in connection with the proposed offering. 46 In addition, prior to the proposed offering holders of 15,311,840 shares of common stock are entitled to rights to cause us to register the sale of those shares under the Securities Act. In the event we complete the proposed offering, the number of shares entitled to registration rights will decrease. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares, other than shares purchased by our affiliates, becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration statement In the future, we may also issue additional shares to our employees, directors or consultants, in connection with corporate alliances or acquisitions, and in follow-on offerings to raise additional capital. Due to these factors, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales could reduce the market price of our common stock. Our corporate actions are substantially controlled by our directors, executive officers and their affiliated entities who could exert control over our company in a manner that may be contrary to the interests of other investors. Our directors, executive officers and their affiliated entities beneficially own over 35% of our outstanding common stock. In the event we complete the proposed offering, we expect the foregoing percentage will decrease. These stockholders, if they acted together, could exert substantial control over matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including electing directors and approving mergers or other business combination transactions. This concentration of ownership may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their stock as part of a sale of our company and might reduce our stock price. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other stockholders, including those who purchase shares in this offering. Delaware law and our corporate charter and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: •the right of the board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors; •the establishment of a classified board of directors requiring that not all members of the board be elected at one time; •the prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; •the requirement for advance notice for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting; •the ability of the board of directors to alter our bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval; •the ability of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with terms set by the board of directors, which rights could be senior to those of common stock; •the required approval of holders of at least two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws or amend or repeal the provisions of our certificate of incorporation regarding the election and removal of directors and the ability of stockholders to take action; 47 •the required approval of holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to remove directors for cause; and •the elimination of the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to take action by written consent. We are also subject to provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for three years after the point in time that such stockholder acquired shares constituting 15% or more of our shares, unless the holder's acquisition of our stock was approved in advance by our board of directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 