ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information in this Form 10-K, before deciding whether to invest in our common stock. If any of the following risks actually materializes, our business, financial condition and results of operations will suffer. The trading price of our common stock could decline as a result of any of these risks, and you might lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business If optical communications networks do not continue to expand as expected, our business will be adversely affected. Our future success as a manufacturer of optical subsystems ultimately depends on the continued growth of the communications industry and, in particular, the continued expansion of global information networks, particularly those directly or indirectly dependent upon a fiber optics infrastructure. As part of that growth, we are relying on increasing demand for voice, video and other data delivered over high-bandwidth network systems as well as commitments by network systems vendors to invest in the expansion of the global information network. As network usage and bandwidth demand increase, so does the need for advanced optical networks to provide the required bandwidth. Without network and bandwidth growth, the need for our optical subsystems, and hence our future growth as a manufacturer of these products, is jeopardized. Currently, while increasing demand for network services and for broadband access, in particular, is apparent, growth is limited by several factors, including, among others, an uncertain regulatory environment, reluctance from content providers to supply video and audio content over the communications infrastructure, and uncertainty regarding long term sustainable business models as multiple industries (cable TV, traditional telecommunications, wireless, satellite, etc.) offer non-complementary and competing content delivery solutions. Ultimately, if long-term expectations for network growth and bandwidth demand are not realized or do not support a sustainable business model, our business would be significantly harmed. Our success will depend on our ability to anticipate and quickly respond to evolving technologies and customer requirements. The market for optical networking equipment is characterized by substantial capital investment and diverse and evolving technologies. For example, the market for optical subsystems is currently 14 characterized by a trend toward the adoption of "pluggable" modules and subsystems that do not require customized interconnections and by the development of more complex and integrated optical subsystems. Our ability to anticipate and respond to these and other changes in technology, industry standards, customer requirements and product offerings, and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products, will be significant factors in our ability to succeed. We expect that new technologies will continue to emerge as competition in the optical networking equipment industry increases and the need for higher and more cost efficient bandwidth expands. Our success, in large part, depends upon our ability to continuously and successfully introduce and market new products and technologies meeting or exceeding our customers' expectations. The introduction of new products embodying new technologies or the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing products uncompetitive from a pricing standpoint, obsolete or unmarketable. Further, time to market with new products can provide significant competitive advantages in our industry. It is difficult to displace an existing supplier or a particular type of optical subsystems once a network systems vendor has chosen an initial optical subsystems supplier for a particular product even if a later to market product supplies superior performance and/or cost efficiency. If we are unable to make our new products commercially available quickly, we may lose existing and potential customers and our financial results would suffer. We and our customers are each dependent upon a limited number of end customers. Historically, we have generated most of our revenues from a limited number of end customers. For example, in the fiscal years ended July 28, 2007 and July 29, 2006, we generated 72.0% and 71.4%, respectively, of our revenues from our four largest end customers during those periods. We may not be able to offset any decline in revenues from our existing major customers with revenues from new customers and our quarterly results may be volatile because we are dependent on large orders from these customers that may be reduced or delayed. Our dependence on a limited number of customers is due to the fact that the network systems industry is dominated by a small number of large companies, and the industry continues to consolidate, as with the recent mergers of Cisco Systems and Scientific-Atlanta, Ericsson and Marconi, Lucent and Alcatel and the network divisions of Nokia Siemens. Similarly, our customers depend primarily on a limited number of major carrier customers to purchase their network systems products that incorporate our optical subsystems. Many major telecommunication services providers are experiencing losses from operations. The further consolidation of the industry, coupled with potential declining revenues from our major customers, may have a material adverse impact on our business. We are under continuous pressure to reduce the prices of our products. The optical network equipment industry has been characterized by falling product prices over time. Many of our competitors outsource their manufacturing operations to locations with low labor costs, allowing them to offer their products at lower prices than if they used manufacturing facilities in the United States. If optical subsystem products become more standardized, the cost advantages of our embedded software approach to product customization will be reduced and our business would be significantly harmed. In addition, if we are unable to reduce our costs in connection with price reductions, our results of operations will be harmed. Our financial results often vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter due to a number of factors, which may lead to volatility in our stock price. Our quarterly revenue and other operating results have varied in the past and are likely to continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. This variability may lead to volatility in our stock price as equity research analysts and investors respond to these quarterly fluctuations. These fluctuations are due to numerous factors, including: •fluctuations in demand for intelligent optical networking products; 15 •the timing and size of sales of our products; •length and variability of the sales cycles of our products; •the timing of recognizing revenue; •new product introductions and enhancements by our competitors and ourselves; •changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; •our ability to develop, introduce and ship new products and product enhancements that meet customer requirements in a timely manner; and •our ability to attain and maintain production volumes and quality levels for our products. Because of quarterly fluctuations, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful. Moreover, our operating results may not meet our announced guidance or expectations of equity research analysts or investors, in which case the price of our common stock could decrease significantly. In addition, our expense levels are based, in significant part, on our expectations as to future revenue and are largely fixed in the short term. As a result, we may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in revenue. Furthermore, we intend to increase our operating expenses as we expand our manufacturing, research and development, sales and marketing, and administrative organizations. The timing of these increases and the rate at which new personnel become productive will affect our operating results. Any revenue shortfall, and the resulting decrease in operating income or increase in operating loss, could lead to volatility in the price of our common stock. We depend on a limited number of component suppliers who could disrupt our business if they stopped, decreased or delayed shipments and increased demand for components generally could lead to shortages. We depend on a limited number of suppliers of components used to manufacture certain of our products. A small number of these suppliers are sole sources. We typically have not entered into long-term agreements with our suppliers and, therefore, these suppliers generally may stop supplying materials and equipment at any time. The reliance on a sole supplier or limited number of suppliers could result in delivery problems, reduced control over product pricing and quality, and an inability to identify and qualify another supplier in a timely manner. Recently, demand for components has rapidly increased, and we rely on our suppliers to ramp production to meet our demand. Any supply deficiencies relating to the quality or quantities of components we use to manufacture our products could adversely affect our ability to fulfill customer orders or our financial results of operations. We are subject to a number of risks with respect to our Optium Australia ROADM operations. Our future results of operations will be substantially influenced by the success of our WSS ROADM product line, and we are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties in this regard, including the following: •In the near term, we are expecting that our WSS ROADMs will become key components of next generation network systems demanded by the market. Any delay by network systems vendors in including our WSS ROADMs in their network systems from the timetable we expect, or any decision by such vendors not to include our WSS ROADMs in amounts we expect, would significantly alter our near term prospects for growth and harm our business and financial condition. •We are ramping the capacity of the production line for our WSS ROADMs at our Optium Australia facility in Sydney, Australia to meet expected customer demand. This ramping of 16 capacity will involve significant investment by us, for which we will not realize the benefit we expect if customer demand is not what we expect. Any delay in the production line being able to provide commercial volumes in the quantities anticipated would delay and could limit our ability to realize the full benefit of the commercialization of our WSS ROADMs, which would negatively affect our revenues and competitive position. In addition, a failure to achieve manufacturing yields from such production line comparable to the yields obtained at our Horsham, Pennsylvania facility would negatively impact our margins and operating results. We are subject to a number of risks as a result of our recent acquisition of Kailight Photonics. In May 2007, we acquired Kailight Photonics, Inc. of Nes Ziona, Israel, a developer of 40Gb/s transceivers and related technologies. Our future results of operations will be substantially influenced by the operations of this new business, and we are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties related to this acquisition, including the following: •In the near term, we are expecting that our 40Gb/s products will become key components of next generation network systems demanded by the market. We acquired Kailight Photonics, in part, based upon this expectation. Any delay by network systems vendors in including our 40Gb/s products in their network systems from the timetable we expect, or any decision by such vendors not to include our 40Gb/s products in amounts we expect, would significantly alter our near term prospects for growth and harm our business and financial condition. •We are currently expanding our production line for our 40Gb/s products at our Horsham, Pennsylvania headquarters. This ramping of capacity will involve significant investment by us, for which we will not realize the benefit we expect if customer demand is not what we expect. Any delay in the production line being able to produce commercial volumes in the quantities anticipated would delay our ability to commercialize our 40Gb/s products, which would negatively affect our revenues and competitive position. In addition, a failure to achieve manufacturing yields from such production line comparable to the yields obtained with respect to our 10Gb/s products would negatively impact our margins and operating results. •We may incur charges to operations in amounts that are not currently estimable to reflect costs associated with integrating the acquired business with our company. These costs could adversely affect our future operating results. •We have become a larger and more geographically dispersed organization, and if our management is unable to effectively manage the combined business, our operating results will suffer. Our success will depend on our ability to quickly adjust to changes in customer demand and lead times. Our industry is characterized by rapidly shifting demand among various product types and requests for shorter manufacturing lead times as our customers respond to market trends. As a result, forecasts from our customers may not provide us with sufficient visibility into the breakdown of long-term demand. If we are not able to quickly adjust to shifting demand among various product types or meet the required lead times of our customers, our business could be adversely affected. Further, lower visibility could cause our results to materially differ quarter to quarter. We do not have long-term volume purchase contracts with our customers. Generally, we have not entered into long-term volume purchase contracts with our customers. As a result, any of our customers may cease to purchase our products at any time. If any of our major customers stop purchasing our products for any reason, our business and results of operations would be harmed. 17 If we fail to retain our chief executive officer and other key personnel or if we fail to attract additional qualified personnel, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth and our business could suffer. Our future depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our future depends on the continued contributions of our executive officers and other key technical personnel, each of whom would be difficult to replace. In particular, Eitan Gertel, our chief executive officer, president and chairman, is critical to the management of our business and operations, as well as the development of our strategic direction. The loss of services of Mr. Gertel or other executive officers or key personnel or the inability to continue to attract qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Competition for highly skilled technical people is extremely intense and we continue to face difficulty identifying and hiring qualified personnel in many areas of our business. We may not be able to hire and retain such personnel at compensation levels consistent with our existing compensation and salary structure. Many of the companies with which we compete for hiring experienced employees have greater resources than we have. In addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the high-technology industries, job candidates often consider the value of the equity they are to receive in connection with their employment. Therefore, significant volatility in the price of our stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain technical personnel. Furthermore, changes to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States relating to the expensing of stock options may discourage us from granting the sizes or types of stock options that job candidates may require to accept our offer of employment. Potential future acquisitions could be difficult to integrate, divert the attention of key personnel, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and impair our financial results. As part of our business strategy, we intend to pursue acquisitions of companies, technologies and products that we believe could accelerate our ability to compete in our core markets or allow us to enter new markets. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, any of which could harm our business, including: •difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products, existing contracts, accounting and personnel of the target company and realizing the anticipated synergies of the combined businesses; •difficulties in supporting and transitioning customers, if any, of the target company; •diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; •the price we pay or other resources that we devote may exceed the value we realize, or the value we could have realized if we had allocated the purchase price or other resources to another opportunity; •risks of entering new markets in which we have limited or no experience; •potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic alliances from either our current business or the target company's business; •assumption of unanticipated problems or latent liabilities, such as problems with the quality of the target company's products; •inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs; •equity based acquisitions may have a dilutive effect on our stock; and •inability to successfully complete transactions with a suitable acquisition candidate. 18 Acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets which are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our financial results. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate acquisitions or investments, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. The failure to successfully evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments or otherwise adequately address these risks could materially harm our business and financial results. If we fail to manage or anticipate our long-term growth and expansion requirements, our business will suffer. In recent years, we have experienced significant growth through among other things, internal expansion programs, product development and our acquisitions of Engana, now Optium Australia, and Kailight Photonics (to be renamed Optium Israel). We currently anticipate continued growth. In connection with this growth, we will be required to expand our manufacturing operations, including hiring new personnel, purchasing additional equipment, leasing or purchasing additional facilities and developing the management infrastructure to manage any such expansion. If we fail to secure these expansion requirements and /or manage our future growth effectively, in particular during periods of industry uncertainty, our business could suffer. Our products are complex and may take longer to develop than anticipated and we may not recognize revenues from new products until after long field testing and customer acceptance periods. Many of our new products must be tailored to customer specifications. As a result, we are constantly developing new products and using new technologies in those products. These products often take substantial time to develop because of their complexity and because customer specifications sometimes change during the development cycle. We often incur substantial costs associated with the research and development and sales and marketing activities in connection with products that may be purchased long after we have incurred the costs associated with designing, creating and selling such products. If our customers do not qualify our products or if our customers determine not to purchase products we have in development, our operating results could suffer. Most of our customers do not purchase our products, other than limited numbers of evaluation units, prior to qualification of our products. Our existing products, as well as each new product, must pass through varying levels of qualification with our customers. In addition, due to the rapid technological changes in our market, a customer may cancel or modify a design project before we begin large-scale manufacture of the product and receive revenue from the customer. It is unlikely that we would be able to recover the expenses for cancelled or unutilized design projects. It is difficult to predict with any certainty the frequency with which customers will cancel or modify their projects, or the effect that any cancellation or modification would have on our results of operations. If carriers that purchase network systems from customers fail to qualify or delay qualifications of any products sold by our customers that contain our products, our business could be harmed. The qualification and field testing of our customers' network system products by their carrier customers is long and unpredictable. This process is not under the control of us or our customers, and as a result timing of our revenues is unpredictable. Any delay in qualification of one of our customers' network systems from what we anticipate could result in the delay or cancellation of orders from our customers for subsystems included in the applicable network system, which could harm our results of operations. 19 Delays, disruptions or quality control problems in manufacturing could result in delays in product shipments to customers and could adversely affect our business. We may experience delays, disruptions or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations. As a result, we could incur additional costs that would adversely affect gross margins, and product shipments to our customers could be delayed beyond the shipment schedules requested by our customers, which would negatively affect our revenues, competitive position and reputations. We may experience low manufacturing yields. Manufacturing yields depend on a number of factors, including the volume of production due to customer demand and the nature and extent of changes in specifications required by customers for which we perform design-in work. Higher volumes due to demand for a fixed, rather than continually changing, design generally results in higher manufacturing yields, whereas lower volume production generally results in lower yields. In addition, lower yields may result, and have in the past resulted, from commercial shipments of products prior to full manufacturing qualification to the applicable specifications. Changes in manufacturing processes required as a result of changes in product specifications, changing customer needs and the introduction of new product lines have historically caused, and may in the future cause, significantly reduced manufacturing yields, resulting in low or negative margins on those products. Moreover, an increase in the rejection rate of products during the quality control process before, during or after manufacture, results in lower yields and margins. Finally, manufacturing yields and margins can also be lower if we receive or inadvertently use defective or contaminated materials from our suppliers. We face intense competition from other providers of optical subsystems, as well as competition from providers offering alternative products, which could negatively impact our results of operations and cause our market share to decline. We believe that a number of companies have developed or are developing optical subsystems that compete directly with our product offerings. Many current and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, research and manufacturing resources than we possess, and there can be no assurance that our current and future competitors will not be more successful than us. In the event that the optical subsystems market expands, competition may intensify as additional competitors enter the market and current competitors expand their product lines. Companies competing with us may introduce products that are competitively priced, have increased performance or functionality, or incorporate technological advances that we have not yet developed or implemented, and may be able to react quicker to changing customer requirements and expectations. There is also the risk that network systems vendors may re-enter the subsystem market and begin to manufacture the optical subsystems incorporated in their network systems. Increased competitive pressure or a decision by any of our customers to manufacture optical subsystems for inclusion in their network systems could result in a loss of sales or market share or cause us to lower prices for our products, any of which would harm our business and operating results. Our future operating results may be subject to volatility as a result of exposure to foreign currency exchange risks and foreign losses. All sales of our products are made in United States dollars. Nevertheless, a few of our suppliers to our subsidiaries Optium Australia and Kailight Photonics (to be renamed Optium Israel) are paid in Australian dollars and Israeli shekels, respectively. In addition, all employee and other local expenses of Optium Australia and Kailight Photonics are paid in Australian dollars and Israeli shekels, respectively. This exposes us to foreign currency exchange rate risks. If the value of the Australian dollar and/or Israeli shekel relative to the United States dollar rises, these expenses of Optium Australia and/or 20 Kailight Photonics, as applicable, will correspondingly increase. We currently do not use derivative financial instruments to mitigate this exposure. We continue to review this issue and may consider hedging certain foreign exchange risks through the use of currency futures or options in future periods. In the year ended July 28, 2007, we recorded a U.S. deferred tax asset of approximately $13.9 million. We recognized the U.S. deferred tax asset when it met a "more likely than not" recognition threshold in connection with likely future taxable income realization. Currently, we recognize income in our US operations and losses in our Australian and Israeli operations; the combination of domestic income and foreign losses, in addition to recognition of additional deferred tax assets, could affect our quarterly and year to date effective tax rates. If we fail to protect, or incur significant costs in defending, our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, our business and results of operations could be materially harmed. Our success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. We rely primarily on patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and unfair competition laws, as well as license agreements and other contractual provisions, to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. Significant technology used in our products, however, is not the subject of any patent protection, and we may be unable to obtain patent protection on such technology in the future. Moreover, existing U.S. legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights offer only limited protection, may not provide us with any competitive advantages, and may be challenged by third parties. In addition, the laws of countries other than the United States in which we market our products may afford little or no effective protection of our intellectual property. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property or otherwise gaining access to our technology. Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer our products or portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. If we fail to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially harmed. In addition, defending our intellectual property rights may entail significant expense. We believe that certain products in the marketplace may infringe our existing intellectual property rights. We have, from time to time, resorted to legal proceedings to protect our intellectual property and may continue to do so in the future. We may be required to expend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. Any of our intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative processes or litigation. If we resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of others, the proceedings could result in significant expense to us and divert the attention and efforts of our management and technical employees, even if we were to prevail. Third parties may claim we are infringing their intellectual property rights and we could be prevented from selling our products, or suffer significant litigation expense, even if these claims have no merit. Our competitive position is driven in part by our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. Third parties, however, may claim that we or our products or operations are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our assets, technology and products. In that regard, JDS Uniphase Corporation and EMCORE Corporation filed a complaint on September 11, 2006 alleging that our 1550 nm HFC externally modulated transmitter, in addition to possibly "products as yet unidentified," infringes on two U.S. patents. On March 14, 2007, JDS Uniphase and EMCORE Corporation filed a second complaint in the United States District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania alleging that the Company's 1550 nm HFC quadrature amplitude modulated transmitters, in addition to possibly "products as yet 21 unidentified", infringe on another U.S. patent. The plaintiffs in both cases are seeking for the court to declare that we have willfully infringed on such patents and to be awarded up to three times the amount of any compensatory damages found, if any, plus any other damages or costs incurred. Any litigation regarding patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights, even those without merit, could be costly and time consuming, and divert our management and key personnel from operating our business. The complexity of the technology involved and inherent uncertainty and cost of intellectual property litigation increases our risks. If any third party has a meritorious or successful claim that we are infringing its intellectual property rights, we may be forced to change our products or manufacturing processes, which may be costly or impractical. This also may require us to stop selling our products as currently engineered, which could harm our competitive position. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions that prevent the further development of certain of our products or services. If we fail to obtain the right to use the intellectual property rights of others necessary to operate our business, our ability to succeed will be adversely affected. Numerous patents in our industry are held by others, including academic institutions and our competitors. Optical subsystem suppliers may seek to gain a competitive advantage or other third parties may seek an economic return on their intellectual property portfolios by making infringement claims against us. In the future, we may need to obtain license rights to patents or other intellectual property held by others to the extent necessary for our business. Unless we are able to obtain those licenses on commercially reasonable terms, patents or other intellectual property held by others could inhibit our development of new products for our markets. Licenses granting us the right to use third party technology may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Generally, a license, if granted, would include payments of up-front fees, ongoing royalties or both. These payments or other terms could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. Our larger competitors may be able to obtain licenses or cross-license their technology on better terms than we can, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. We will incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. We have only recently begun to operate as a public company. As a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and the NASDAQ Global Market, has imposed various new requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these new compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, under current rules, commencing with respect to our fiscal year ending August 2, 2008, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management time on compliance-related issues. We will evaluate the need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. Moreover, if we are 22 not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NASDAQ Global Market, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. We may not be able to obtain capital when desired on favorable terms, if at all, or without dilution to our stockholders. We anticipate that our current cash, cash equivalents, and cash provided by operating activities will be sufficient to meet our current and anticipated needs for general corporate purposes for at least the next 12 months. We operate in a market, however, that makes our prospects difficult to evaluate. It is possible that we may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or otherwise have the capital resources to meet our future capital needs. If this occurs, we may need additional financing to execute on our current or future business strategies, including to: •acquire complementary businesses or technologies; •enhance our operating infrastructure; •hire additional technical and other personnel; or •otherwise respond to competitive pressures. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be significantly diluted, and these newly-issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, if and when needed, our ability to fund our operations, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance our products, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures could be significantly limited. We may be faced with product liability claims. Despite quality assurance measures, there remains a risk that defects may occur in our products. The occurrence of any defects in our products could give rise to liability for damages caused by such defects. They could, moreover, impair the market's acceptance of our products. Both could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Although we carry product liability insurance, we cannot assure investors that this insurance would adequately cover our costs arising from defects in our products. Business disruptions resulting from international uncertainties could negatively impact our profitability. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenue from international sales in various markets. In addition, we have operations in Sydney, Australia and Nes Ziona, Israel. Our international revenue and operations are subject to a number of material risks, including, but not limited to: •difficulties in staffing, managing and supporting operations in more than one country; •difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; •fewer legal protections for intellectual property; •foreign and U.S. taxation issues and international trade barriers; 23 •difficulties in obtaining any necessary governmental authorizations for the export of our products to certain foreign jurisdictions; •fluctuations in foreign economies; •fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates; •general economic and political conditions in the markets in which we operate; •domestic and international economic or political changes, hostilities and other disruptions in regions where we currently operate or may operate in the future; and •different and changing legal and regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions in which we currently operate or may operate in the future. Negative developments in any of these areas in one or more countries could result in a reduction in demand for our products, the cancellation or delay of orders already placed, difficulties in producing and delivering our products, threats to our intellectual property, difficulty in collecting receivables, and a higher cost of doing business, any of which could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, our sales, including sales to customers outside the United States, are denominated in U.S. dollars, and downward fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar may make our products more expensive than other products, which could harm our business. We may be unable to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards to reduce our income taxes. As of July 28, 2007, we had net operating loss, or NOL, carryforwards of approximately $25.4 million for federal and $9.8 million for state income tax purposes expiring through fiscal year ending July 2025. These NOL carryforwards represent an asset to the extent they can be utilized to reduce future cash income tax payments. Utilization of our NOL carryforwards depends on the timing and amount of taxable income earned in the future, which we are unable to predict. We have performed an analysis to determine whether an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code has occurred. The effect of an ownership change would be the imposition of an annual limitation on the use of the NOL carryforwards attributable to periods before the change. The review determined we have no limitations related to the NOL carryforwards. We have NOLs in the United States, Australia and Israel. Currently, we recognize income in our US operations and losses in our Australian and Israeli operations, and the complexity of the application of the NOLs in consolidation may adversely affect our future effective tax rate. In the year ended July 28, 2007, we recorded a U.S. deferred tax asset, by removing a valuation allowance, of approximately $13.9 million. This one time recognition positively affected our net income for fiscal year 2007. We recognized the U.S. deferred tax asset when it met a "more likely than not" recognition threshold in connection with likely future taxable income realization. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. The price of our stock could decline if one or more securities analysts downgrade our stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. 24 Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: •fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; •changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; •failure of any of our products to achieve or maintain market acceptance; •changes in market valuations of similar companies; •success of competitive products; •changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant products, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances; •regulatory developments in the United States, foreign countries or both; •litigation involving our company, our general industry or both; •additions or departures of key personnel; •investors' general perception of us; •changes in general economic, industry and market conditions; and •changes in regulatory and other dynamics. In addition, if the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to class action lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. A significant portion of our total outstanding shares may be sold into the public market, which could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These shares are able to be sold, subject to any applicable volume limitations under federal securities laws, at any time. These sales, or the market perception that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. In addition, as of October 19, 2007 there were 48,979 shares subject to outstanding warrants and 2,364,248 shares subject to outstanding options, and additional shares will be available for issuance under our stock option plans. These shares are eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by any applicable vesting requirements. Moreover, holders who, at the time of our initial public offering, held an aggregate of approximately 17 million shares of our common stock have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. We have also registered all shares of common stock that we may issue under our employee benefit plans. Once we register these shares, they can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject in certain cases to applicable volume limitations. 25 Our directors, management and entities associated with them will exercise significant control over our company, which will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. Our executive officers and directors and entities associated with them collectively beneficially own approximately 49% of our outstanding common stock as of October 15, 2007. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, will be able to influence our management and affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company and might negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares of our common stock. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: •limitations on the removal of directors; •a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board are elected at one time; •advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations; •the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; •the ability of our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our by-laws; and •the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. The affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote is necessary to amend or repeal the above provisions of our certificate of incorporation. In addition, absent approval of our board of directors, our by-laws may only be amended or repealed by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns, or within the last three years has owned, 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that you could receive a premium for your common stock in an acquisition. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not currently intend to do so for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, you are not likely to receive any dividends on your common stock for the foreseeable future. 26 Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table sets forth information regarding our executive officers, including their ages as of October 24, 2007. Name Age Position Eitan Gertel 45 Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer Christopher Brown 40 General Counsel and Vice President of Corporate Development Mark Colyar 44 Senior Vice President of Engineering and General Manager of Optium U.S. Anthony Musto 47 Vice President of Sales and Marketing Simon Poole 49 Vice President of Business Development and General Manager of Optium Australia David Renner 39 Chief Financial Officer Sagie Tsadka 42 Vice President and General Manager of Optium Israel Eitan Gertel has served as our President and as a director since March 2001 and as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board since February 2004. Mr. Gertel worked as Vice President and General Manager of the former transmission systems division, or TSD, of JDSU from 1995 to 2001. JDSU is a provider of broadband test and management solutions and optical products. Mr. Gertel holds a B.S.E.E. from Drexel University. Christopher Brown has served as our General Counsel and Vice President of Corporate Development since August 2006. Prior to this, Mr. Brown was a partner at the law firm of Goodwin Procter LLP from January 2005 to August 2006, a partner at the law firm of McDermott, Will & Emery from January 2003 to January 2005 and an associate at McDermott, Will & Emery from March 2000 to January 2003. Mr. Brown holds a B.A. in Economics and a B.A. in Political Science from the University of Massachusetts at Amherst and a J.D. from Boston College Law School. Mark Colyar has served as our Senior Vice President of Engineering since April 2001 and General Manager of our U.S. operations since February 2004. Mr. Colyar served in various positions at JDSU's former TSD division from November 1995 to April 2001, including the Director of Sales and Marketing, Vice President of Engineering and Vice President of Operations. Mr. Colyar holds a B.S.E.E. from Drexel University. Anthony Musto has served as our Vice President of Sales and Marketing since April 2001. Mr. Musto worked at JDSU as a Director of Marketing from 1999 to 2001. Prior to this, Mr. Musto was the Director of Business Development at Sarnoff Corporation, where he was responsible for the optical, microwave, and computing areas. Mr. Musto has also held positions with Microwave Semiconductor Corporation, Optimax, and AEL Defense Corporation. Mr. Musto holds a B.S.E.E. from Pennsylvania State University. Simon Poole has served as our Vice President of Business Development since March 2006 and a General Manager of Optium Australia since January 2007. Dr. Poole served as Vice President of Business Development for Engana from July 2005 until March 2006. Dr. Poole was a founder of Engana and served as its joint Chief Executive Officer from January 2002 until July 2005 and its Chief Executive Officer from September 2001 to January 2002. Prior to this, Dr. Poole was the founder and Chief Executive Officer of Indx Pty. Ltd., a provider of fiber Bragg gratings, which was acquired in October 1997 by Uniphase, now a part of JDSU, and served JDSU Australia as General Manager from the time of such acquisition to April 1998 and as Technical Director from April 1998 to February 2001. Dr. Poole holds a B.Sc. in electrical engineering and a Ph.D. in optical fibers from Southampton University. 27 David Renner has served as our Chief Financial Officer since February 2004 and served as our Vice President of Finance and Administration from May 2002 through January 2004. Mr. Renner worked for us as a consultant in the areas of financial reporting, forecasting and enterprise resource planning from January 2002 through April 2002. Prior to this, Mr. Renner worked as the Corporate Director of Financial Shared Services for JDSU in 2001 and as the Director of Finance at JDSU's former TSD division from 1999 to 2001. Mr. Renner holds a B.A. in business administration from the University of San Diego. Sagie Tsadka has served as our Vice President and General Manager of Optium Israel since May 2007. Mr. Tsadka has over 20 years of experience in electro-optics research, development, and management. From September 2000 to May 2007, he was President and CEO of Kailight Photonics Inc., which was acquired by Optium in May 2007. Prior to Kailight, Mr. Tsadka was Core Technology Manager at Applied Materials/PDC Group from March 1997 to August 2000. Between September 1991 and March 1997 he served as a researcher and Project Manager at Soreq NRC. A graduate of the prestigious "Talpiot" program of the Israel Defense Forces, Mr. Tsadka began his career managing plans for new weapons development with the IDF Ground Corps, where he spent 5 years from August 1986 to September 1991. Mr. Tsadka holds a BSc in Physics and Mathematics from the Hebrew University in Jerusalem and an MSc. in Physics from Tel Aviv University. There are no family relationships among any of our executive officers. 