Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information in this annual report on Form 10-K, and in our other filings with the SEC, before deciding whether to invest in shares of our common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs with material adverse effects on us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock will likely decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Customers and Markets We are in a product transition phase and we may not be able to adequately develop, market or sell new products. Revenues from our existing products are decreasing as certain products near end-of-life, and beginning in early 2012 we plan on selling our next generation CPE product Fusiv® Vx185, Vx183, Vx175, and Vx173 chipsets. Further, we are currently developing a new broadband DSL CO platform based on vectoring technology. The successful customer migration to our new products is critical to our business, and there is no assurance that we are or will be able to market and or sell new products and services in a timely manner. New products or services developed in the future may be delayed, and new products may not be accepted by the market, or may be accepted for a shorter period than anticipated. Our sales and operating results may be adversely affected if we are unable to bring new products to market, if customers delay purchases or if acceptance of the new products is slower than expected or to a smaller degree than expected, if at all. Failure of future offerings to be accepted by the market could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition, or reputation. We have had a history of losses, and future losses or the inability achieve or sustain profitability in the future may adversely impact our relationships with customers and potential customers and, therefore, financial condition and liquidity. Since our inception, we have never been profitable on an annual basis and we have incurred significant net losses leading to an accumulated deficit of $278.1 million as of January 1, 2012. To achieve profitability again, we will need to generate and sustain higher revenue and to improve our gross margins while maintaining expense levels that are appropriate and necessary for our business. We may not be able to achieve profitability again and, even if it were able to attain profitability, we may not be able to sustain profitability on an on-going quarterly or an annual basis in the future. Since we compete with companies that have greater financial stability, our customers or potential customers may be reluctant to enter into arrangements with us due to the perceived risks to our long term viability. If our common stock continues to trade below $1.00, our stock could be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market. If delisting occurs, it would adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock and harm our business. Our common stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol “IKAN.” If we fail to meet any of the continued listing standards of the NASDAQ Global Market, our common stock could be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market. On December 16, 2011, we received a letter from the NASDAQ indicating that we are not in compliance with Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 5450(a)(1), or the Rule, requiring listed securities maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share. Based upon the closing bid price for the last 30 consecutive business days prior to the date of the letter, we no longer meet this requirement. In accordance with Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), we will be provided 180 calendar days, or until June 13, 2012, to regain compliance. If, at any time before June 13, 2012, the bid price of our common stock 20 Table of Contents closes at $1.00 or more per share for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days NASDAQ will provide written notice that we have regained compliance with the Rule. However, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to regain compliance with the continued listing requirement of the Rule. If we do not regain compliance by June 13, 2012, our common stock will be subject to delisting. At that time, we may appeal NASDAQ’s decision to a Listing Qualifications Panel. We intend to actively monitor the bid price for our common stock between now and June 13, 2012, and will consider available options to resolve the deficiency and regain compliance with the NASDAQ minimum bid price requirements. There is no assurance that we will be able to comply with the Rule and, therefore, may lose our eligibility for quotation on The NASDAQ Stock Market. Any delisting could adversely affect the market price of and liquidity of the trading market for our common stock, our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of its operations and could result in the loss of confidence by investors, suppliers and employees. Our operating results have fluctuated significantly over time and are likely to continue to do so, and as a result, we may fail to meet or exceed our revenue forecasts or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change, product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, uncertain product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The industry has, from time to time, experienced significant and sometimes prolonged, downturns, often connected with or in anticipation of maturing product cycles and declines in general economic conditions. To respond to these downturns, some service providers have decreased their capital expenditures, changed their purchasing practices to use refurbished rather than purchasing new equipment, canceled or delayed new developments, and taken a cautious approach to acquiring new equipment and technologies from OEMs, usually with very little notice. This, in turn, has reduced the demand for new semiconductors by our direct customers which could result in significant fluctuations of revenue as the economy changes. Any future downturns may reduce our revenue and result in us having excess inventory. By contrast, any upturn in the semiconductor industry could result in increased demand and competition for limited production capacity, which may affect our ability to ship products and prevent us from benefiting from such an upturn. Accordingly, our operating results may vary significantly as a result of the general conditions in the semiconductor or broadband communications industry, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Fluctuations in our expenses could affect our operating results. Our expenses are subject to fluctuations resulting from various factors, including, but not limited to, higher expenses associated with new product releases, for example, addressing technical issues arising from development efforts, costs associated with additional or unanticipated costs for manufacturing or components increasing without notice because we do not have formal pricing arrangements with our subcontractors, costs of design tools and large up-front license fees to third parties for intellectual property integrated into our products, as well as other factors identified throughout these risk factors. Because many of our expenses are relatively fixed in the short term, or are incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may not be able to reduce our expenses sufficiently to mitigate any reductions in revenue. Therefore it may be necessary to take other measures to align expenses with revenue. For example, on January 30, 2012, the Board of Directors approved and management initiated a corporate restructuring plan that will include a reduction in force by approximately16%. Restructuring costs will include expenses related to the severance for terminated employees and other exit-related costs arising from contractual and other obligations. We expect that this restructuring plan will generally be completed in the first half of 2012. In addition, the acquisition of other businesses can generate nonrecurring expenses, such as our acquisition of the Broadband Access, or BBA, product line from Conexant Systems, Inc. in 2009. As a result, quarter to 21 Table of Contents quarter comparisons of our operating expenses and results should not be relied on as an indicator of future performance. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors for any quarter or other reporting period, the market price of our common stock may decline. General macroeconomic conditions could reduce demand for services based upon our products. Our business is susceptible to macroeconomic and other world market conditions. As an example, we believe that consumer-targeted broadband services, which are deployed using our technology, are part of most households’ discretionary spending. We believe the global financial economic downturn that began in 2008 and continued through 2011, particularly in Europe, has impacted consumer confidence and spending negatively. These outcomes and behaviors may adversely affect our business and financial condition. If individual consumers decide not to install—or decide to discontinue purchasing—broadband services in their homes in order to save money in an uncertain economy, the resulting drop in demand could cause telecommunications service providers to reduce or stop placing orders for OEM equipment containing our products. Accordingly, the OEMs’ demand for our products could drop further, potentially having a materially negative effect on our revenue. We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional shares of common stock or other securities would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the next twelve months. However, we may require additional cash resources during 2012 as a result of changes in our business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities, which could result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Incurring indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our success is dependent upon achieving new design wins into commercially successful systems sold by our OEM and ODM customers. Our products are generally incorporated into our OEM and ODM customers’ systems at the design stage. As a result, we rely on OEMs and ODMs to select our products to be designed into their systems, which we refer to as a “design win.” At any given time, we are competing for one or more of these design wins. We often incur significant expenditures over multiple fiscal quarters without any assurance that we will achieve a design win. Furthermore, even if we achieve a design win, we cannot be assured that the OEM or ODM’s equipment that we are designed into will be marketed, sold or commercially successful and, accordingly, we may not generate any revenue from the design win. In addition, our OEM and ODM customers can choose at any time to discontinue their systems that include our products or delay deployment, which has occurred in the past from time to time. If we are unable to achieve design wins or if our OEM customers’ systems incorporating our products are not commercially successful or deployed, our operating results would suffer. Industry consolidation may lead to increased competition and may harm our operating results. There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our industry. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. We believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete for customers. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, rapid consolidation could result in a decrease in the number of customers we serve. Loss of a major customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents If we are unable to develop, introduce or achieve market acceptance of our new semiconductor products, our operating results would be adversely affected. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological innovation and intense competition. Our future success will depend on our ability to continue to predict what new products are needed to meet the demand of the broadband, communication processor or other markets addressable by our products and then introduce, develop and distribute such products in a timely and cost-effective manner. The development of new semiconductor products is complex, and from time to time we have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. We have in the past invested substantial resources in developing and purchasing emerging technologies that did not achieve the market acceptance that we had expected. Our ability to develop and deliver new semiconductor products successfully will depend on various factors, including our ability to: • successfully integrate certain technologies acquired in acquisitions into our product lines; • accurately predict market requirements and evolving industry standards; • accurately define new semiconductor products; • timely complete and introduce new product designs or features; • timely qualify and obtain industry interoperability certification of our products and the equipment into which our products will be incorporated; • ensure that our subcontractors have sufficient foundry capacity and packaging materials and achieve acceptable manufacturing yields; • shift our products to smaller geometry process technologies to achieve lower cost and higher levels of design integration; and • gain market acceptance of our products and our OEM customers’ products. If we are unable to develop and introduce new semiconductor products successfully and in a cost-effective and timely manner, we will not be able to attract new customers or retain our existing customers, which would harm our business. If we do not successfully manage our inventory in the transition process to next generation semiconductor products, our operating results may be harmed. If we are successful in timely developing new semiconductor products ahead of competitors but do not cost-effectively manage our inventory levels of existing products when making the transition to the new semiconductor products, our financial results could be negatively affected by high levels of obsolete inventory and our operating results would be harmed. The average selling prices and gross margins of our products are subject to declines, which may harm our revenue and profitability. Our products are subject to rapid declines in average selling prices due to pressure from customers and competitive pressures, including lowering average selling prices in order to maintain or increase market share. We have lowered our prices significantly at times to gain or maintain market share, and we expect to do so again in the future. In addition, we may not be able to reduce our costs of goods sold as rapidly as our prices have declined. Our financial results, in particular (but not limited to) our gross margins, will suffer if we are unable to maintain or increase pricing, or are unable to offset any future reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes, reducing our manufacturing costs or developing new or enhanced products that command higher prices or better gross margins on a timely basis. 23 Table of Contents Our product sales mix is subject to frequent changes, which may impact our revenue and margin. Our product margins vary widely by product and customer. As a result, a change in the sales mix of our products could have an impact on the forecasted revenue and margins for the quarter. For example, our Broadband DSL product family generally has higher margins as compared to our Communication Processor product family. Furthermore, the product margins within our Broadband DSL product family can vary based on the type and performance of deployment being used as customers typically pay higher selling prices for higher performance. While we forecast a future product mix and make purchase decisions based on that forecast, actual results can be materially different which could negatively impact our revenue and margins. Because we depend on a relatively small number of significant customers for a substantial portion of our revenue, the loss of any of our key customers, our inability to continue to sell existing and new products to our key customers in significant quantities or our failure to attract new significant customers could adversely impact our revenue and harm our business. We have in the past and expect in the future to derive a substantial portion of our revenue from sales to a relatively small number of customers. The composition of these customers has varied in the past, and we expect that it will continue to vary over time. As a result, the loss of any significant customer or a decline in business with any significant customer would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may experience pressure from significant customers to agree to customer-favorable sales terms and price reductions. The following customers accounted for more than 10% of our revenue in the periods indicated below: Year Ended Direct Customer January 3,2010 January 2,2011 January 1,2012 Sagemcom Tunisie 19 % 15 % 20 % Paltek Corporation 12 * 10 Alcatel-Lucent and affiliated contract manufacturers * 18 * NEC Corporation of America 11 * * * Less than 10% Recent changes in our senior management positions could negatively affect our operations and relationships with our customers and employees. We have experienced recent changes in our senior management team, the resignations of our President and Chief Executive Officer in June 2011, our Vice President of Operations in March 2011, and our Vice President of Marketing in September 2011. Our Executive Chairman is serving as our interim President and Chief Executive Officer while we search for a permanent replacement. Changes in our senior management or technical personnel could affect our customer relationships, employee morale, and our ability to operate in compliance with existing internal controls and regulations and harm our business. If we are unable to maintain a consistent senior management team, attract and retain a permanent Chief Executive Officer, or successfully integrate our current and future members of senior management, our business could be negatively affected. Because competition for qualified personnel is intense in our industry, we may not be able to recruit and retain necessary personnel, which could impact our product development and sales. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate other senior management and qualified technical personnel, particularly software engineers, digital circuit designers, mixed-signal circuit designers and systems and algorithms engineers. Competition for these employees is intense and many of our competitors may have greater name recognition and significantly greater financial resources to 24 Table of Contents better compete for these employees. If we are unable to retain our existing personnel, or attract and train additional qualified personnel, our growth may be limited due to our lack of capacity to develop and market our products. All of our key employees are employed on an “at will” basis. The loss of any of these key employees could slow our product development processes and sales efforts or harm the perception of our business. We may also incur increased operating expenses and be required to divert the attention of other senior management to recruit replacements for key employees. Also, our depressed common stock price may result in difficulty attracting and retaining personnel as stock options and other forms of incentive equity grants generally comprise a significant portion of our compensation packages for all employees, which could harm our ability to provide technologically competitive products. Further, in the third quarter of 2010 we implemented a corporate restructuring plan that included a reduction in work force of approximately 20% and the closure of three of our overseas offices. That restructuring is predominantly complete. On January 30, 2012, the Board of Directors approved and management initiated a corporate restructuring plan that will include a reduction in force by approximately16%. Restructuring costs will include expenses related to the severance for terminated employees and other exit-related costs arising from contractual and other obligations. We expect this restructuring plan will generally be completed in the first half of 2012. As a result of these restructurings, we may have difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. Further the changes in senior management and the multiple restructurings and reductions in workforce have had and may continue to have a negative effect on employee morale. Risks Related to the Tallwood Investment Tallwood Investors may exercise significant influence over us, including through their ability to elect three members of our Board of Directors. In August 2009, we sold 24 million shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase up to an additional 7.8 million shares of our common stock (such common stock and warrants collectively referred to as the Securities) to Tallwood III, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, Tallwood III Partners, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, Tallwood III Associates, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, and Tallwood III Annex, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (collectively referred to as the Tallwood Investors). The funds raised for the sale of the Securities funded a portion of our acquisition of the Broadband Access product line from Conexant Systems, Inc. In addition, one of the Tallwood Investors participated in our public offering of our common stock in fiscal year 2010 and purchased an additional 5.6 million shares of our common stock. The common stock owned by Tallwood Investors represented approximately 43% of the outstanding shares of our common stock (excluding the exercise of warrants) as of January 1, 2012. Assuming the full exercise of the warrants, the common stock owned by the Tallwood Investors would represent 49% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Until the third anniversary of the closing of the original issuance of the Securities to the Tallwood Investors, the Tallwood Investors have agreed to vote all of their shares in excess of the shares constituting 35% of our outstanding common stock in the same proportion as the votes cast by all our other stockholders. We also entered into a stockholder agreement with the Tallwood Investors, which, among other things, contains certain governance arrangements and various provisions relating to board composition, stock ownership, transfers by the Tallwood Investors and their affiliates, voting and other matters. Subject to certain exceptions, the Tallwood Investors are permitted under the terms of the stockholder agreement to maintain their ownership interest in Ikanos in subsequent equity offerings. As a result, the Tallwood Investors may have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of any matter submitted for the vote of our stockholders. The Tallwood Investors may have interests that diverge from, or even conflict with, our interests and those of our other stockholders. In addition, the Certificate of Designation of the Series A Preferred Stock provides that the Tallwood Investors have the right to designate three directors to our Board of Directors while the Tallwood Investors hold at least 35% of our outstanding common stock, and a number of directors to our Board of Directors proportional to the Tallwood Investors’ ownership position in us at such time as the Tallwood Investors hold less than 35% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, the directors elected to our Board of Directors by the Tallwood Investors may exercise significant influence on matters considered by our Board of Directors. 25 Table of Contents The market price of our common stock may decline as a result of future sales of our common stock by the Tallwood Investors. We are unable to predict the potential effects of the Tallwood Investors’ ownership of our outstanding common stock on the trading activity in and market price of our common stock. Pursuant to the stockholder agreement, we have granted the Tallwood Investors and their permitted transferees’ registration rights for the resale of the shares of our common stock and shares of our common stock underlying the warrants. Under the terms of the registration rights, we have filed a registration statement that permits the resale of such securities into the public market, and any such resale would increase the number of shares of our common stock available for public trading. Sales by the Tallwood Investors or their permitted transferees of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Operations and Technology We rely on third-party technologies for the development of our products, and our inability to use such technologies in the future or the failure of such technology would harm our ability to remain competitive. We rely on third parties for technologies that are integrated into some of our products, including the memory cells, input/output cells, hardware interfaces and core processor logic. If we are unable to continue to use or license these technologies on reasonable terms, or if these technologies fail to operate properly, we may not be able to secure alternatives in a timely manner and our ability to remain competitive would be harmed. Further, if we were to seek to obtain such a license and such license were available, we could be required to make significant payments with respect to past and/or future sales of our products, and such payments may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. If the party determines to pursue claims against us for patent infringement, we might not be able to successfully defend against such claims. In addition, the third party intellectual property could also expose us to liability and, while we have not experienced material warranty costs in any period as a result of third party intellectual property, there can be no assurance that we will not experience such costs in the future. We are a fabless semiconductor company and failure to secure and maintain sufficient capacity with our subcontractors could significantly disrupt shipment of our products, impair our relationships with customers and decrease sales, which would negatively impact our market share and operating results. We are a fabless semiconductor company and currently use multiple wafer foundries and factory subcontractors, located primarily in Israel, Malaysia, Singapore and Taiwan to manufacture, assemble and test all of our current semiconductor devices. While we work with multiple suppliers, generally each product is made by one foundry and one assembly and test subcontractor. Accordingly, we are greatly dependent on a limited number of suppliers to deliver quality products on time. In past periods of high demand in the semiconductor market, we have experienced delays in meeting our capacity demand and as a result were unable to deliver products to our customers on a timely basis. In addition, we have experienced similar delays due to technical and quality control problems. If we were to need to qualify a new facility to meet our capacity, or if a foundry or subcontractor ceased working with us, as has happened in the past, or if production is disrupted, we may be unable to meet our customer demand on a timely basis, or at all. We may be required to incur additional costs and may need to successfully qualify an alternative facility in order to not disrupt our business. In the event we seek to use new wafer foundries to manufacture a portion of our semiconductor products, we may not be able to bring the new foundries on-line rapidly enough and may not achieve anticipated cost reductions. As indicated above, we use a limited number of independent wafer foundries to manufacture all of our semiconductor products which could expose us to risks of delay, increased costs and customer dissatisfaction in 26 Table of Contents the event that any of these foundries are unable to meet our semiconductor requirements. We may seek to qualify additional wafer foundries to meet our future requirements but the qualification process typically requires several months or more. By the time a new foundry is qualified, the need for additional capacity may have passed or we may have lost the potential opportunity to a competitor. If we cannot accomplish this qualification in a timely manner, we would experience a significant interruption in supply of the affected products which could in turn cause our costs of revenue to increase and our overall revenue to decrease. This would harm our customer relationships and our market share and operating results would suffer as a result. When demand for manufacturing capacity is high, we may take various actions to try to secure sufficient capacity, which could be costly and negatively impact our operating results. Although we have purchase order commitments to supply specified levels of products to our OEM customers, we do not have a guaranteed level of production capacity from any of our subcontractors’ facilities that we depend upon to produce semiconductors. Facility capacity may not be available when we need it or at reasonable prices. We place our orders on the basis of our OEM customers’ purchase orders or our forecast of customer demand, and our subcontractors may not be able to meet our requirements in a timely manner, or at all. In order to secure sufficient manufacturing facility capacity when demand is high and mitigate the risks described in the foregoing paragraphs, we may enter into various arrangements with subcontractors that could be costly and negatively affect our operating results, including minimum order quantities over extended periods, and higher costs to secure necessary lead-times. We may not be able to make any such arrangements in a timely fashion or at all, and any arrangements may be costly, reduce our financial flexibility, not be on terms favorable to us and may contain financial penalties if we do not use all of our allocated facility capacity. These penalties and obligations may be expensive and could harm our business. Defects and poor performance in our products could result in loss of customers, decreased revenue, unexpected expenses and loss of market share, and we may face warranty and product liability claims arising from defective products. We have in the past, and may in the future experience, defects (commonly referred to as “bugs”) in our products which may not always be detected by testing processes. Defects can result from a variety of causes, including but not limited to manufacturing problems or third party intellectual property incorporated into our products. If defects are discovered after our products have shipped, we have experienced, and could continue to experience, warranty and consequential damages claims from our customers. If we are unable to deliver quality products, our reputation would be harmed, which could result in the loss of, future orders and business with our customers. Further, we may experience difficulties in achieving acceptable yields on some of our products, which may result in higher per unit cost, shipment delays, and increased expenses associated with resolving yield problems. If any of these adverse risks are realized and we are not able to offset the lost opportunities, our revenue, margins and operating results would decline. If our forecasts of our OEM customers’ demand are inaccurate, our financial condition and liquidity would suffer. We place orders with our suppliers based on the forecasts of our OEM customers’ demand. Our forecasts are based on multiple assumptions, each of which may introduce errors into our estimates. If we do not accurately forecast customer demand, we may forego revenue opportunities, lose market share, damage customer relationships or allocate resources to manufacturing products that we may not be able to sell. As a result, as we experienced in the second and third quarters of fiscal 2010, we could have excess or obsolete inventory, resulting in a decline in the value of our inventory, which would increase our cost of revenue, negatively affect gross margins, and create a drain on our liquidity. Our failure to accurately manage inventory against demand would adversely affect our financial results. 27 Table of Contents To remain competitive, we need to continue to reduce the cost of our semiconductor chips, which includes migrating to smaller geometrical processes, and our failure to do so may harm our business. We negotiate pricing with our suppliers from time to time. Negotiations with respect to pricing typically depend on order volumes and, if our order volumes decrease over time, we may experience difficulties negotiating favorable pricing, negatively impacting our ability to compete. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometrical processes, which are measured in microns or nanometers. We have in the past, and may in the future, experience some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased product costs and expenses. Additionally, upfront expenses associated with smaller geometry process technologies such as for masks and tooling can be significantly higher than those for the processes that we currently use, and our migration to these newer process technologies can result in significantly higher research and development expenses. Third-party claims of infringement or other claims against us could adversely affect our ability to market our products, require us to redesign our products or seek licenses from third parties, and harm our business. In addition, any litigation required to defend such claims could result in significant expenses and diversion of our resources. Semiconductor industry companies and intellectual property holding companies often aggressively protect and pursue their intellectual property rights. From time to time, we receive, and we are likely to continue to receive in the future, notices that claim our products infringe upon other parties’ proprietary rights. We may in the future be engaged in litigation with parties who claim that we have infringed their patents or misappropriated or misused their trade secrets or who may seek to invalidate one or more of our patents, and it is possible that we would not prevail in any future lawsuits. An adverse determination in any of these types of claims could prevent us from manufacturing or selling some of our products, could increase our costs of products and could expose us to significant liability. In addition, a court could issue a preliminary or permanent injunction that would require us to withdraw or recall certain products from the market or redesign certain products offered for sale or that are under development. In addition, we may be liable for damages for past infringement and royalties for future use of the technology and we may be liable for treble damages if infringement is found to have been willful. Even if claims against us are not valid or successfully asserted, these claims could result in significant costs and a diversion of management and personnel resources to defend. Many companies in the semiconductor business have significant patent portfolios. These companies and other parties may claim that our products infringe their proprietary rights. We may become involved in litigation as a result of allegations that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Any party asserting that our products infringe their proprietary rights would force us to defend ourselves, and possibly our customers, against the alleged infringement. These claims and any resulting lawsuit, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights. We also could be forced to do one or more of the following: • stop selling, incorporating or using our products that use the challenged intellectual property; • obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or could require us to make significant payments with respect to past or future sales of our products; • redesign those products that use any allegedly infringing technology, which may be costly and time-consuming; or • refund amounts received for allegedly infringing technology or products. 28 Table of Contents Any potential dispute involving our patents or other intellectual property could also include our customers which could trigger our indemnification obligations to one or more of them and result in substantial expense to us. In any potential dispute or claim involving our patents or other intellectual property, our customers could also become the target of litigation. Because we may indemnify our customers for intellectual property claims made against them for products incorporating our technology, any litigation could trigger technical support and indemnification obligations in some of our agreements, which could result in substantial expenses. Any indemnity claim could adversely affect our relationships with our OEM customers and result in substantial costs to us. We face intense competition in the semiconductor industry and the broadband communications markets, which could reduce our market share and negatively affect our revenue. The semiconductor industry and the broadband communications markets are intensely competitive. In the VDSL or VDSL-like technology, PON and communications processing markets, we currently compete or expect to compete with, among others, Broadcom Corporation, BroadLight, Inc., Cavium Networks, Inc., Freescale Semiconductor, Inc., Lantiq Deutschland GmbH, Marvell Technology Group Ltd., MediaTek Inc., PMC-Sierra, Inc. and Realtek Semiconductor Corp. Many of our competitors may have stronger manufacturing subcontractor relationships than us and longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources. In addition, many of our competitors have extensive technology libraries that could enable them to incorporate broadband or communications processing technologies into a system on a chip, creating a more attractive product line than ours. These competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers, resellers or other third parties. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Existing or new competitors may also develop alternative technologies that more effectively address our markets with products that offer enhanced features and functionality, lower power requirements, greater levels of semiconductor integration or lower cost. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or new competitors, in which case we may lose market share in our existing markets and our revenue may fail to increase or may decline. Other data transmission technologies and communications processing technologies may compete effectively with the service provider services addressed by our products, which could adversely affect our revenue and business. Our revenue currently is dependent upon the increase in demand for service provider services that use broadband technology and integrated residential gateways. Besides xDSL and other DMT-based technologies, service providers can decide to deploy PON or fiber and there would be reduced need for our products. If more service providers decide to use FTTH deployments, it could harm our xDSL business if our products are not needed. Furthermore, residential gateways compete against a variety of different data distribution technologies, including Ethernet routers, set-top boxes provided by cable and satellite providers, wireless (WiFi and WiMax) and emerging power line and multimedia over coax alliance technologies. If any of these competing technologies proves to be more reliable, faster or less expensive than, or has any other advantages over the broadband technologies we provide, the demand for our products may decrease and our business would be harmed. Rapidly changing standards and regulations could make our products obsolete, which would cause our revenue and operating results to suffer. We design our products to conform to regulations established by governments and to standards set by industry standards bodies worldwide such as the ATIS, and by the ITU-T. Because our products are designed to 29 Table of Contents conform to current specific industry standards, if competing standards emerge that are preferred by our customers, we would have to make significant expenditures to develop new products. If our customers adopt new or competing industry standards with which our products are not compatible, or the industry groups adopt standards or governments issue regulations with which our products are not compatible, our existing products would become less desirable to our customers, and our revenue and operating results would suffer. If we fail to secure or protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may be able to use our technologies, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our revenue or increase our cost. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents, and our existing and future patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies or may be held invalid or unenforceable in court. While we are not currently aware of misappropriation of our existing technology, policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our technologies, particularly in foreign countries where we have not applied for patent protections and, even if such protections were available, the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as United States law. The patents we have obtained or licensed, or may obtain or license in the future, may not be adequate to protect our proprietary rights. Our competitors may independently develop or may have already developed technology similar to us, duplicate our products or design around any patents issued to us or our other intellectual property. In addition, we have been, and may be, required to license our patents as a result of our participation in various standards organizations. If competitors appropriate our technology and it is not adequately protected, our competitive position would be harmed, our legal costs would increase and our revenue would be harmed. Changes in current or future laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws or regulations by federal or state agencies or foreign governments could impede the sale of our products or otherwise harm our business. The effects of regulation on our customers or the industries in which they operate may materially and adversely impact our business. For example, India’s government is currently considering regulation that may limit or prohibit sales of certain telecommunications products manufactured in China. While the rule-making process is not final, if the rules apply to equipment containing our semiconductor products, such regulation could reduce sales of our products and have a negative effect on our operating results. In addition, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications in Japan, the Ministry of Communications and Information in Korea, various national regulatory agencies in Europe, the European Commission in the European Union, the U.S. Federal Communications Commission have broad jurisdiction over our target markets. Although the laws and regulations of these and other federal or state agencies may not be directly applicable to our products, they do apply to much of the equipment into which our products are incorporated. Governmental regulatory agencies worldwide may affect the ability of telephone companies to offer certain services to their customers or other aspects of their business, which may in turn impede sales of our products. In addition to the laws and regulations specific to telecommunications equipment, other laws and regulations affect our business. For instance, changes in tax, employment and import/export laws and regulations, and their enforcement commonly occur in the various countries in which we operate. If changes in those laws and regulations, or in the enforcement of those laws and regulations, occur in a manner that we did not anticipate, those changes could cause us to have increased operating costs or to pay higher taxes, and thus have a negative effect on our operating results. 30 Table of Contents Failure to maintain adequate internal controls as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) could harm our operating results, our ability to operate our business and our investors’ view of Ikanos. If we do not maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of SOX. Effective internal controls particularly those related to revenue recognition, valuation of inventory and warranty provisions, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important in helping to prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our common stock could drop significantly. Our international operations subject us to risks not faced by companies without international operations. We currently obtain substantially all of our manufacturing, assembly and testing services from suppliers and subcontractors located outside the United States, and have a significant portion of our research and development team located in India. In addition, 98% of our revenue for both of the fiscal years ended January 1, 2012 and January 2, 2011 were derived from sales to customers outside the United States. We have expanded our international business activities and may open other design and operational centers abroad. International operations are subject to many other inherent risks, including but not limited to: • political, social and economic instability, including war and terrorist acts; • exposure to different legal standards, particularly with respect to intellectual property; • trade and travel restrictions; • the imposition of governmental controls and restrictions or unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; • import and export license requirements and restrictions of the United States and each other country in which we operate; • foreign technical standards; • changes in tariffs; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • foreign currency exposure and fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • difficulties in collecting receivables from foreign entities or delayed revenue recognition; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Because we are currently substantially dependent on our foreign sales, research and development and operations, any of the factors described above could significantly harm our ability to produce quality products in a timely and cost effective manner, and increase or maintain our foreign sales. Fluctuations in exchange rates between and among the U.S. dollar and other currencies in which we do business, may adversely affect our operating results. We maintain extensive operations internationally. We have offices or facilities in China, France, Germany, India Japan, Korea, Singapore and Taiwan. We incur a portion of our expenses in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including the Chinese Yuan, the Euro, the Indian rupee, the Korean won, the Japanese yen, Singapore dollar and the Taiwanese dollar. A large portion of our cash is held by our international affiliates both in U.S. dollar and local currency denominations. As a result, we may experience foreign exchange gains or losses due to 31 Table of Contents the volatility of these currencies compared to the U.S. dollar. Because we report our results in U.S. dollars, the difference in exchange rates in one period compared to another directly impacts period to period comparisons of our operating results. In addition, our sales have been historically denominated in U.S. dollars. Currency exchange rates have been especially volatile in the recent past and these currency fluctuations may make it difficult for us to predict and/or provide guidance on our results. Currently, we have not implemented any strategies to mitigate risks related to the impact of fluctuations in currency exchange rates and we cannot predict future currency exchange rate changes. Several of the facilities that manufacture our products, most of our OEM customers and the service providers they serve, and our California facility are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. Several of our subcontractors’ facilities that manufacture, assemble and test our products and five of our wafer foundries are located in Malaysia, Singapore and Taiwan. Several large customers are located in Japan and Korea. The Asia-Pacific region has experienced significant earthquakes and other natural disasters in the past, including a recent major earthquake and tsunami in Japan, and could be subject to additional seismic activities. Any earthquake or other natural disaster in these areas could significantly disrupt these manufacturing facilities’ production capabilities and could result in our experiencing a significant delay in delivery, or substantial shortage of wafers, in particular, and possibly in higher wafer prices, and our products in general. Our headquarters in California are also located near major earthquake fault lines. If there is a major earthquake or any other natural disaster in a region where one of our facilities is located, it could significantly disrupt our operations. Changes in our tax rates could affect our future results. Our future effective tax rates could be favorably or unfavorably affected by the absolute amount and future geographic distribution of our pre-tax income, our ability to successfully shift our operating activities to foreign operations and the amount and timing of inter-company payments from our foreign operations subject to U.S. income taxes related to the transfer of certain rights and functions. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile, and holders of our common stock may not be able to resell shares at or above the price paid, or at all. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially since our initial public offering and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. Fluctuations have occurred and may continue to occur in response to various factors, many of which we cannot control, including: • quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results; • failure to comply with NASDAQ minimum bid price, as indicated above; • announcements of changes in our senior management; • the gain or loss of one or more significant customers or suppliers; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors, customers or us; • the gain or loss of market share in any of our markets; • general economic and political conditions and specific conditions in the semiconductor industry and broadband technology markets, including seasonality in sales of consumer products into which our products are incorporated; • continuing international conflicts and acts of terrorism; • changes in earnings estimates or investment recommendations by analysts; • changes in investor perceptions; 32 Table of Contents • changes in product mix; or • changes in expectations relating to our products, plans and strategic position or those of our competitors or customers. The closing sale price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market for the period of January 1, 2007 to January 1, 2012 ranged from a low of $0.75 to a high of $9.34. In addition, the market prices of securities of semiconductor and other technology companies have been volatile, particularly for companies like us, with low trading volumes. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. Accordingly, holders of our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above the price paid. The pending class action litigation could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. In November 2006, three putative class action lawsuits were filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against us, our directors and two former executive officers, as well as the lead underwriters for our initial and secondary public offerings. The lawsuits were consolidated and an amended complaint was filed on April 24, 2007. The amended complaint sought unspecified damages for certain alleged misrepresentations and omissions made by us in connection with both our initial public offering in September 2005 and our follow-on offering in March 2006. On June 25, 2007, we filed motions to dismiss the amended complaint, and on March 10, 2008, the Court dismissed the case with prejudice. On March 25, 2008, plaintiffs filed a motion for reconsideration, and on June 12, 2008, the District Court denied the motion for reconsideration. On October 15, 2008, plaintiffs appealed the District Court’s dismissal of the amended complaint and denial of its motion for reconsideration to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. On September 17, 2009, the Court of Appeals affirmed the District Court’s dismissal of the amended complaint, but vacated its judgment on the motion for reconsideration and remanded the case to the District Court for further proceedings. On May 13, 2010, the District Court granted plaintiffs leave to file a motion to amend the pleadings. Plaintiffs filed a motion for leave to amend the complaint on June 11, 2010. We opposed on July 11, 2010, and on November 23, 2010, the District Court denied the motion. On January 6, 2011, plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal with the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and, on March 18, 2011, filed Appellant’s Opening Brief. We filed our opposition brief on June 17, 2011 and on July 5, 2011 plaintiffs filed a reply. Both parties have requested oral argument and are awaiting a hearing date from the Second Circuit. We cannot predict the likely outcome of the appeal, and an adverse result could have a material effect on our financial statements. Additionally, from time to time, we are a party to various legal proceedings and claims arising from the normal course of business activities. We currently believe that the ultimate outcome of these proceedings, individually and in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and statement of cash flows. If an unfavorable ruling were to occur in the legal proceeding described above, there exists the possibility of a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. If the securities analyst who currently publishes reports on Ikanos does not continue to publish research or reports about our business, or if he issues an adverse opinion regarding our common stock, the market price of our common stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. We have lost all the securities research coverage with the exception of one analyst. If this analyst issues an adverse opinion regarding our common stock, the stock price would likely decline. If the analyst ceases coverage of us or fails to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose further visibility to the financial markets, which in turn could cause the market price of our common stock or trading volume to decline. 33 Table of Contents Takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable may be delayed or discouraged due to our corporate charter and bylaws which contain anti-takeover provisions, Delaware law, or the Tallwood Investors. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: • the right of our Board of Directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of our Board of Directors; • the establishment of a classified Board of Directors requiring that not all members of the board be elected at one time; • the prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; • the requirement for advance notice for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting; • the ability of our Board of Directors to alter our bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval; • the ability of our Board of Directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock with terms set by the Board of Directors, which rights could be senior to those of common stock; • the required approval of holders of at least two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws or amend or repeal the provisions of our certificate of incorporation regarding the election and removal of directors and the ability of stockholders to take action; • the required approval of holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to remove directors for cause; and • the elimination of the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to take action by written consent. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. These provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts and could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in the market price being lower than it would without these provisions. Due to the significant number of shares of our common stock that the Tallwood Investors hold as discussed above, the Tallwood Investors may have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of any matter submitted for the vote of our stockholders, including a takeover attempt, and may have interests that diverge from, or even conflict with, our interests and those of our other stockholders. 34 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 