ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report and in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” the following are some of the important factors that could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s international operations, which generated approximately 73% of its consolidated net sales in 2011, are subject to various risks that may lead to decreases in its financial results. The Company is an international company, and the risks associated with operating in foreign countries may have a negative impact on the Company’s liquidity and net income. The Company’s international operations generated approximately 73%, 72% and 72% of its consolidated net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In addition, the Company’s business strategy includes continued expansion of international activities, including within developing markets and areas, such as the Middle East, South America, Eastern Europe and Asia, that may pose greater risk of political or economic instability. Approximately 30%, 28% and 26% of the Company’s consolidated net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009, -8- Table of Contents Crown Holdings, Inc. respectively, were generated outside of the developed markets in Western Europe, the United States and Canada. Furthermore, if the current European sovereign debt crisis continues or further deteriorates, there will likely be a negative effect on the Company’s European business, as well as the businesses of the Company’s European customers and suppliers. If this crisis ultimately leads to a significant devaluation of the euro, the value of the Company’s financial assets that are denominated in euros would be significantly reduced when translated to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. Any of these conditions could ultimately harm the Company’s overall business, prospects, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Emerging markets are a focus of the Company’s international growth strategy. The developing nature of these markets and the nature of the Company’s international operations generally are subject to various risks, including: • foreign governments’ restrictive trade policies; • inconsistent product regulation or policy changes by foreign agencies or governments; • duties, taxes or government royalties, including the imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by non-U.S. subsidiaries; • customs, import/export and other trade compliance regulations; • foreign exchange rate risks; • difficulty in collecting international accounts receivable and potentially longer payment cycles; • increased costs in maintaining international manufacturing and marketing efforts; • non-tariff barriers and higher duty rates; • difficulties associated with expatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax laws; • difficulties in enforcement of contractual obligations and intellectual property rights and difficulties in protecting intellectual property or sensitive commercial and operations data or information technology systems generally; • exchange controls; • national and regional labor strikes; • the geographic, language and cultural differences between personnel in different areas of the world; • high social benefit costs for labor, including costs associated with restructurings; • civil unrest or political, social, legal and economic instability, such as recent political turmoil in the Middle East; • product boycotts, including with respect to the products of the Company’s multi-national customers; • customer, supplier, and investor concerns regarding operations in areas such as the Middle East; • taking of property by nationalization or expropriation without fair compensation; • imposition of limitations on conversions of foreign currencies into dollars or payment of dividends and other payments by non-U.S. subsidiaries; -9- Table of Contents Crown Holdings, Inc. • hyperinflation and currency devaluation in certain foreign countries where such currency devaluation could affect the amount of cash generated by operations in those countries and thereby affect the Company’s ability to satisfy its obligations; • exposure to political and financial instability, especially with the uncertainty associated with the ongoing sovereign debt crisis in certain Euro zone countries, which may lead to currency exchange losses and collection difficulties or other losses; • war, civil disturbance, global or regional catastrophic events, natural disasters, such as flooding in Southeast Asia, widespread outbreaks of infectious diseases, including in emerging markets, and acts of terrorism; • geographical concentration of the Company’s factories and operations and regional shifts in its customer base; • periodic health epidemic concerns; • complexity of managing global operations; and • the complexity of managing global operations. There can be no guarantee that a deterioration of economic conditions in countries in which the Company operates or may seek to operate in the future would not have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations. As the Company seeks to expand its business globally, growth opportunities may be impacted by greater political, economic and social uncertainty and the continuing and accelerating globalization of businesses could significantly change the dynamics of the Company’s competition, customer base and product offerings. The Company’s efforts to grow its businesses depend to a large extent upon access to, and its success in developing market share and operating profitably in, additional geographic markets including but not limited to the Middle East, South America, Eastern Europe and Asia. In some cases, countries in these regions have greater political and economic volatility, greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions and differing local customer product preferences and requirements than the Company’s other markets. Operating and seeking to expand business in a number of different regions and countries exposes the Company to multiple and potentially conflicting cultural practices, business practices and legal and regulatory requirements that are subject to change, including those related to tariffs and trade barriers, investments, property ownership rights, taxation and repatriation of earnings and advanced technologies. Such expansion efforts may also use Company capital and other resources that could be invested in other areas. Expanding business operations globally also increases exposure to currency fluctuations which can materially affect the Company’s financial results. As these emerging geographic markets become more important to the Company, its competitors are also seeking to expand their production capacities and sales in these same markets, which may lead to industry overcapacity that could adversely effect pricing, volumes and financial results in such markets. Although the Company is taking measures to adapt to these changing circumstances, the Company’s reputation and/or business results could be negatively affected should these efforts prove unsuccessful. The Company may not be able to manage its anticipated growth, and it may experience constraints or inefficiencies caused by unanticipated acceleration and deceleration of customer demand. Unanticipated acceleration and deceleration of customer demand for the Company’s products may result in constraints or inefficiencies related to the Company’s manufacturing, sales force, implementation resources and administrative infrastructure, particularly in emerging markets where the Company is seeking to expand production. Such constraints or inefficiencies may adversely affect the Company as a result of delays, lost potential product sales or loss of current or potential customers due to their dissatisfaction. Similarly, over-expansion, including as a result of overcapacity due to expansion by the Company’s competitors, or investments in anticipation of growth that does not materialize, or develops more slowly than the Company expects, could harm the Company’s financial results and result in overcapacity. -10- Table of Contents Crown Holdings, Inc. To manage the Company’s anticipated future growth effectively, the Company must continue to enhance its manufacturing capabilities and operations, information technology infrastructure, and financial and accounting systems and controls. Organizational growth and scale-up of operations could strain its existing managerial, operational, financial and other resources. The Company’s growth requires significant capital expenditures and may divert financial resources from other projects, such as the development of new products or enhancements of existing products or reduction of the Company’s outstanding indebtedness. If the Company’s management is unable to effectively manage the Company’s growth, its expenses may increase more than expected, its revenue could grow more slowly than expected and it may not be able to achieve its research and development and production goals. The Company’s failure to manage its anticipated growth effectively could have a material effect on its business, operating results or financial condition. The Company’s profits will decline if the price of raw materials or energy rises and it cannot increase the price of its products, and the Company’s financial results could be adversely affected if the Company was not able to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials. The Company uses various raw materials, such as steel, aluminum, water, natural gas, electricity and other processed energy, in its manufacturing operations. Sufficient quantities of these raw materials may not be available in the future or may be available only at increased prices. The Company’s raw material supply contracts vary as to terms and duration, with steel contracts typically one year in duration with fixed prices and aluminum contracts typically multi-year in duration with fluctuating prices based on aluminum ingot costs. The availability of various raw materials and their prices depends on global and local supply and demand forces, governmental regulations (including tariffs), level of production, resource availability, transportation, and other factors, including natural disasters such as floods and earthquakes. In particular, in recent years the consolidation of steel suppliers, shortage of raw materials affecting the production of steel and the increased global demand for steel, including in China and other developing countries, have contributed to an overall tighter supply for steel, resulting in increased steel prices and, in some cases, special surcharges and allocated cut backs of products by steel suppliers. In addition, future steel supply contracts may provide for prices that fluctuate or adjust rather than provide a fixed price during a one-year period. The prices of certain raw materials used by the Company, such as steel, aluminum and processed energy, have historically been subject to volatility. In 2011, consumption of steel and aluminum represented approximately 28% and 37%, respectively, of the Company’s consolidated cost of products sold, excluding depreciation and amortization. For 2011, the weighted average market price for steel used in packaging increased approximately 20%, when compared to the weighted average market price in 2010, and the average price of aluminum ingot on the London Metal Exchange increased approximately 11%. As a result of raw material price increases in recent years, the Company implemented price increases in most of its steel and aluminum product categories. As a result of continuing global supply and demand pressures, other commodity-related costs affecting its business may increase as well, including natural gas, electricity and freight-related costs. While certain, but not all, of the Company’s contracts pass through raw material costs to customers, the Company may be unable to increase its prices to offset increases in raw material costs without suffering reductions in unit volume, revenue and operating income. In addition, any price increases may take effect after related cost increases, reducing operating income in the near term. Significant increases in raw material costs may increase the Company’s working capital requirements, which may increase the Company’s average outstanding indebtedness and interest expense and may exceed the amounts available under the Company’s senior secured credit facilities and other sources of liquidity. In addition, the Company hedges raw material costs on behalf of certain customers and may suffer losses if such customers are unable to satisfy their purchase obligations. If the Company is unable to purchase steel, aluminum or other raw materials for a significant period of time, the Company’s operations would be disrupted and any such disruption may adversely affect the Company’s financial results. If customers believe that the Company’s competitors have greater access to raw materials, perceived certainty of supply at the Company’s competitors may put the Company at a competitive disadvantage regarding pricing and product volumes. -11- Table of Contents Crown Holdings, Inc. The substantial indebtedness of the Company could prevent it from fulfilling its obligations. The Company has substantial outstanding debt. As a result of the Company’s substantial indebtedness, a significant portion of the Company’s cash flow will be required to pay interest and principal on its outstanding indebtedness, and the Company may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or have future borrowings available under its senior secured revolving credit facilities, to enable it to repay its indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had approximately $3.5 billion of indebtedness. The Company’s ratio of earnings to fixed charges was 3.4 times for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, as discussed in Exhibit 12 to this Annual Report. The Company’s current sources of liquidity and borrowings expire or mature as follows – its $200 million North American securitization facility, of which $100 million was outstanding at December 31, 2011, in March 2013; its $1,200 million revolving credit facilities in June 2015; its $550 million and €274 million ($355 million) senior secured term loan facilities in June 2016; its $400 million 7.625% senior notes in May 2017; its €500 million ($647 million) 7.125% senior notes in August 2018; its $700 million 6.25% senior notes in February 2021; its $350 million 7.375% senior notes in December 2026; its $64 million 7.5% senior notes in December 2096; and $230 million of other indebtedness in various currencies at various dates through 2019. The substantial indebtedness of the Company could: • increase the Company’s vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including rising interest rates; • restrict the Company from making strategic acquisitions or exploiting business opportunities, including any planned expansion in emerging markets; • limit the Company’s ability to make capital expenditures both domestically and internationally in order to grow the Company’s business or maintain manufacturing plants in good working order and repair; • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants under the Company’s indebtedness, the Company’s ability to obtain additional financing, dispose of assets or pay cash dividends; • require the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to service its indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of its cash flow to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, research and development expenditures and other general corporate requirements; • require the Company to sell assets used in its business; • limit the Company’s ability to refinance its existing indebtedness, particularly during periods of adverse credit market conditions when refinancing indebtedness may not be available under interest rates and other terms acceptable to the Company or at all; • increase the Company’s cost of borrowing; • limit the Company’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in which it operates; and • place the Company at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt. If its financial condition, operating results and liquidity deteriorate, the Company’s creditors may restrict its ability to obtain future financing and its suppliers could require prepayment or cash on delivery rather than extend credit which could further diminish the Company’s ability to generate cash flows from operations sufficient to service its debt obligations. In addition, the Company’s ability to make payments on and refinance its debt and to fund its operations will depend on the Company’s ability to generate cash in the future. -12- Table of Contents Crown Holdings, Inc. Some of the Company’s indebtedness is subject to floating interest rates, which would result in the Company’s interest expense increasing if interest rates rise. As of December 31, 2011, approximately $1.2 billion of the Company’s $3.5 billion of total indebtedness was subject to floating interest rates. Changes in economic conditions could result in higher interest rates, thereby increasing the Company’s interest expense and reducing funds available for operations or other purposes. The Company’s annual interest expense was $232 million, $203 million and $247 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Based on the amount of variable rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2011, a 1% increase in variable interest rates would have increased its 2011 annual adjusted interest expense by $12 million. Accordingly, the Company may experience economic losses and a negative impact on earnings as a result of interest rate fluctuation. The actual effect of a 1% increase could be more than $12 million as the Company’s average borrowings on its variable rate debt may be higher during the year than the amount at December 31, 2011. Although the Company may use interest rate protection agreements from time to time to reduce its exposure to interest rate fluctuations in some cases, it may not elect or have the ability to implement hedges or, if it does implement them, there can be no assurance that such agreements will achieve the desired effect. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Market Risk” in this Annual Report. Notwithstanding the Company’s current indebtedness levels and restrictive covenants, the Company may still be able to incur substantial additional debt or make certain restricted payments, which could exacerbate the risks described above. The Company may be able to incur additional debt in the future, including in connection with acquisitions or joint ventures. Although the Company’s senior secured revolving credit facilities and indentures governing its outstanding notes contain restrictions on the Company’s ability to incur indebtedness, those restrictions are subject to a number of exceptions, and, under certain circumstances, indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. The Company may also consider investments in joint ventures or acquisitions or increased capital expenditures, which may increase the Company’s indebtedness. Moreover, although the Company’s senior secured revolving credit facilities and indentures governing its outstanding notes contain restrictions on the Company’s ability to make restricted payments, including the declaration and payment of dividends and the repurchase of the Company’s common stock, the Company is able to make such restricted payments under certain circumstances which may increase indebtedness. Adding new debt to current debt levels or making otherwise restricted payments could intensify the related risks that the Company and its subsidiaries now face. Restrictive covenants in its debt agreements could restrict the Company’s operating flexibility. The indentures and agreements governing the Company’s senior secured credit facilities and outstanding notes contain affirmative and negative covenants that limit the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to take certain actions. These restrictions may limit the Company’s ability to operate its businesses and may prohibit or limit its ability to enhance its operations or take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. The Company’s senior secured credit facilities require the Company to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial conditions. The agreements or indentures governing the Company’s senior secured credit facilities and outstanding notes restrict, among other things, the ability of the Company and the ability of all or substantially all of its subsidiaries to: • incur additional debt; • pay dividends or make other distributions, repurchase capital stock, repurchase subordinated debt and make certain investments or loans; • create liens and engage in sale and leaseback transactions; • create restrictions on the payment of dividends and other amounts to the Company from subsidiaries; • make loans, investments and capital expenditures; -13- Table of Contents Crown Holdings, Inc. • change accounting treatment and reporting practices; • enter into agreements restricting the ability of a subsidiary to pay dividends to, make or repay loans to, transfer property to, or guarantee indebtedness of, the Company or any of its subsidiaries; • sell or acquire assets, enter into leaseback transactions and merge or consolidate with or into other companies; and • engage in transactions with affiliates. In addition, the indentures and agreements governing the Company’s outstanding notes limit, among other things, the ability of the Company to enter into certain transactions, such as mergers, consolidations, joint ventures, asset sales, sale and leaseback transactions and the pledging of assets. Furthermore, if the Company or certain of its subsidiaries experience specific kinds of changes of control, the Company’s senior secured credit facilities will be due and payable and the Company will be required to offer to repurchase outstanding notes. The breach of any of these covenants by the Company or the failure by the Company to meet any of these ratios or conditions could result in a default under any or all of such indebtedness. If a default occurs under any such indebtedness, all of the outstanding obligations thereunder could become immediately due and payable, which could result in a default under the Company’s other outstanding debt and could lead to an acceleration of obligations related to other outstanding debt. The ability of the Company to comply with the provisions of its senior secured credit facilities, the agreements or indentures governing other indebtedness it may incur in the future and its outstanding notes can be affected by events beyond its control and, therefore, it may be unable to meet these ratios and conditions. The Company is subject to the effects of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, which may reduce its net sales and cash flow. The Company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currencies as a significant portion of its consolidated net sales, its costs, assets and liabilities, are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company derived approximately 73%, 72% and 72%, respectively, of its consolidated net sales from sales in foreign currencies. In its consolidated financial statements, the Company translates local currency financial results into U.S. dollars based on average exchange rates prevailing during a reporting period. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, its reported international revenue and earnings will be reduced because the local currency will translate into fewer U.S. dollars. Conversely, a weakening U.S. dollar will effectively increase the dollar-equivalent of the Company’s expenses and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. The Company’s translation and exchange adjustments increased reported income before tax by $4 million in 2010, $6 million in 2009 and $9 million in 2007 and reduced reported income before tax by $2 million in 2011 and $21 million in 2008. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Market Risk” in this Annual Report. Although the Company may use financial instruments such as foreign currency forwards from time to time to reduce its exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations in some cases, it may not elect or have the ability to implement hedges or, if it does implement them, there can be no assurance that such agreements will achieve the desired effect. For the year-ended December 31, 2011, a 0.10 movement in the average Euro rate (e.g., from 1.39 USD = 1 Euro to 1.29 USD = 1 Euro) would have reduced net income by $10 million. Pending and future asbestos litigation and payments to settle asbestos-related claims could reduce the Company’s cash flow and negatively impact its financial condition. Crown Cork & Seal Company, Inc. (“Crown Cork”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, is one of many defendants in a substantial number of lawsuits filed throughout the United States by persons alleging bodily injury as a result of exposure to asbestos. In 1963, Crown Cork acquired a subsidiary that had two operating businesses, one of which is alleged to have manufactured asbestos-containing insulation products. Crown Cork believes that the business ceased manufacturing such products in 1963. -14- Table of Contents Crown Holdings, Inc. The Company recorded pre-tax charges of $28 million, $46 million, $55 million, $25 million and $29 million to increase its accrual for asbestos-related liabilities in 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, Crown Cork’s accrual for pending and future asbestos-related claims and related legal costs was $249 million, including $198 for unasserted claims. Crown Cork’s accrual includes estimated probable costs for claims through the year 2021. Crown Cork’s accrual excludes potential costs for claims beyond 2021 because the Company believes that the key assumptions underlying its accrual are subject to greater uncertainty as the projection period lengthens. Assumptions underlying the accrual include that claims for exposure to asbestos that occurred after the sale of the subsidiary’s insulation business in 1964 would not be entitled to settlement payouts and that state statutes described under Note K to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report, including Texas and Pennsylvania statutes, are expected to have a highly favorable impact on Crown Cork’s ability to settle or defend against asbestos-related claims in those states and other states where Pennsylvania law may apply. Crown Cork had approximately 50,000 asbestos-related claims outstanding at December 31, 2011. Of these claims, approximately 15,000 claims relate to claimants alleging first exposure to asbestos after 1964 and approximately 35,000 relate to claimants alleging first exposure to asbestos before or during 1964, of which approximately 12,000 were filed in Texas, 2,000 were filed in Pennsylvania, 6,000 were filed in other states that have enacted asbestos legislation and 15,000 were filed in other states. The outstanding claims at December 31, 2011 exclude 3,100 pending claims involving plaintiffs who allege that they are, or were, maritime workers subject to exposure to asbestos, but whose claims the Company believes will not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flow. The outstanding claims at December 31, 2011 also exclude approximately 19,000 inactive claims. Due to the passage of time, the Company considers it unlikely that the plaintiffs in these cases will pursue further action. The exclusion of these inactive claims had no effect on the calculation of the Company’s accrual as the claims were filed in states where the Company’s liability is limited by statute. The Company devotes significant time and expense to defense against these various claims, complaints and proceedings, and there can be no assurance that the expenses or distractions from operating the Company’s businesses arising from these defenses will not increase materially. On October 22, 2010, the Texas Supreme Court, in a 6-2 decision, reversed a lower court decision, Barbara Robinson v. Crown Cork & Seal Company, Inc., No. 14-04-00658-CV, Fourteenth Court of Appeals, Texas, which had upheld the dismissal of an asbestos-related case against Crown Cork. The Texas Supreme Court held that the Texas legislation was unconstitutional under the Texas Constitution when applied to asbestos-related claims pending against Crown Cork when the legislation was enacted in June of 2003. In 2010, the Company recorded a pre-tax charge of $15 million including estimated legal fees to increase its accrual for asbestos related costs for claims pending in Texas on June 11, 2003. The Company believes that the decision of the Texas Supreme Court is limited to retroactive application of the Texas legislation to asbestos-related cases that were pending against Crown Cork in Texas on June 11, 2003 and therefore continues to assign no value to claims filed after June 11, 2003. Crown Cork made cash payments of $28 million, $27 million, $26 million, $25 million and $26 million in 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, for asbestos-related claims. These payments have reduced and any such future payments will reduce the cash flow available to Crown Cork for its business operations and debt payments. Asbestos-related payments and defense costs may be significantly higher than those estimated by Crown Cork because the outcome of this type of litigation (and, therefore, Crown Cork’s reserve) is subject to a number of assumptions and uncertainties, such as the number or size of asbestos-related claims or settlements, the number of financially viable responsible parties, the extent to which state statutes relating to asbestos liability are upheld and/or applied by the courts, Crown Cork’s ability to obtain resolution without payment of asbestos-related claims by persons alleging first exposure to asbestos after 1964, and the potential impact of any pending or future asbestos-related legislation. Accordingly, Crown Cork may be required to make payments for claims substantially in excess of its accrual, which could reduce the Company’s cash flow and impair its ability to satisfy its obligations. As a result of the uncertainties regarding its asbestos-related liabilities and its reduced cash flow, the ability of the Company to raise new money in the capital markets is more difficult and more costly, and the Company may not be able to access the capital markets in the future. Further information regarding Crown Cork’s asbestos-related liabilities is presented within “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the headings, “Provision for Asbestos” and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” and under Note K to the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report. -15- Table of Contents Crown Holdings, Inc. The Company has significant pension plan obligations worldwide and significant unfunded postretirement obligations, which could reduce its cash flow and negatively impact its results of operations and its financial condition. The Company sponsors various pension plans worldwide, with the largest funded plans in the U.K., U.S. and Canada. In 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company contributed $404 million, $79 million, $74 million, $71 million and $65 million, respectively, to its pension plans and currently anticipates its 2012 funding to be approximately $130 million. Pension expense was $97 million in 2011 and is expected to be $97 million in 2012. A 0.25% change in the 2012 expected rate of return assumptions would change 2012 pension expense by approximately $10 million. A 0.25% change in the discount rates assumptions as of December 31, 2011 would change 2012 pension expense by approximately $4 million. The Company may be required to accelerate the timing of its contributions under its pension plans. The actual impact of any accelerated funding will depend upon the interest rates required for determining the plan liabilities and the investment performance of plan assets. An acceleration in the timing of pension plan contributions could decrease the Company’s cash available to pay its outstanding obligations and its net income and increase the Company’s outstanding indebtedness. Based on current assumptions, the Company expects to make pension contributions of $130 million in 2012, $89 million in 2013, $104 million in 2014, $204 million in 2015 and $158 million in 2016 including its supplemental executive retirement plan. The difference between pension plan obligations and assets, or the funded status of the plans, significantly affects the net periodic benefit costs of the Company’s pension plans and the ongoing funding requirements of those plans. Among other factors, significant volatility in the equity markets and in the value of illiquid alternative investments, changes in discount rates, investment returns and the market value of plan assets can substantially increase the Company’s future pension plan funding requirements and could have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations and profitability. See Note V to the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report. While its U.S. pension plan continues in effect, the Company continues to incur additional pension obligations. The Company’s pension plan assets consist primarily of common stocks and fixed income securities and also include alternative investments such as interests in private equity or hedge funds. If the performance of plan assets does not meet the Company’s assumptions or discount rates continue to decline, the underfunding of the pension plan may increase and the Company may have to contribute additional funds to the pension plan, and its pension expense may increase. In addition, its retiree medical plans are unfunded. The Company’s U.S. pension plan is subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or ERISA. Under ERISA, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or PBGC, has the authority to terminate an underfunded plan under certain circumstances. In the event its U.S. pension plan is terminated for any reason while the plan is underfunded, the Company will incur a liability to the PBGC that may be equal to the entire amount of the underfunding. In addition, as of December 31, 2011 the unfunded accumulated postretirement benefit obligation, as calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, for retiree medical benefits was approximately $337 million, based on assumptions set forth under Note V to the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report. Acquisitions or investments that the Company may pursue could be unsuccessful, consume significant resources and require the incurrence of additional indebtedness. The Company may pursue acquisitions and investments that complement its existing business. These acquisitions and investments may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence (including the incurrence of additional indebtedness under the Company’s senior secured revolving credit facilities or other secured or unsecured debt), operating losses and expenses that could have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. -16- Table of Contents Crown Holdings, Inc. In particular, if the Company incurs additional debt, the Company’s liquidity and financial stability could be impaired as a result of using a significant portion of available cash or borrowing capacity to finance an acquisition. Moreover, the Company may face an increase in interest expense or financial leverage if additional debt is incurred to finance an acquisition, which may, among other things, adversely affect the Company’s various financial ratios and the Company’s compliance with the conditions of its existing indebtedness. In addition, such additional indebtedness may be incurred under the Company’s senior secured credit facilities or otherwise secured by liens on the Company’s assets. Acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including: • diversion of management time and attention; • failures to identify material problems and liabilities of acquisition targets or to obtain sufficient indemnification rights to fully offset possible liabilities related to the acquired businesses; • difficulties integrating the operations, technologies and personnel of the acquired businesses; • inefficiencies and complexities that may arise due to unfamiliarity with new assets, businesses or markets; • disruptions to the Company’s ongoing business; • inaccurate estimates of fair value made in the accounting for acquisitions and amortization of acquired intangible assets which would reduce future reported earnings; • the inability to obtain required financing for the new acquisition or investment opportunities and the Company’s existing business; • potential loss of key employees, contractual relationships or customers of the acquired businesses or of the Company; and • inability to obtain required regulatory approvals. To the extent the Company pursues an acquisition that causes it to incur unexpected costs or that fails to generate expected returns, the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected, and the Company’s ability to service its indebtedness may be negatively impacted. The Company’s principal markets may be subject to overcapacity and intense competition, which could reduce the Company’s net sales and net income. Food and beverage cans are standardized products, allowing for relatively little differentiation among competitors. This could lead to overcapacity and price competition among food and beverage can producers, if capacity growth outpaced the growth in demand for food and beverage cans and overall manufacturing capacity exceeded demand. These market conditions could reduce product prices and contribute to declining revenue and net income and increasing debt balances. As a result of industry overcapacity and price competition, the Company may not be able to increase prices sufficiently to offset higher costs or to generate sufficient cash flow. The North American and Western Europe food and beverage can markets, in particular, are considered to be mature markets, characterized by slow growth and a sophisticated distribution system. Competitive pricing pressures, overcapacity, the failure to develop new product designs and technologies for products, as well as other factors could cause the Company to lose existing business or opportunities to generate new business and could result in decreased cash flow and net income. The Company is subject to competition from substitute products and decreases in demand for its products, which could result in lower profits and reduced cash flows. The Company is subject to substantial competition from producers of alternative packaging made from glass, paper, flexible materials and plastic. The Company’s sales depend heavily on the volumes of sales -17- Table of Contents Crown Holdings, Inc. by the Company’s customers in the food and beverage markets. Changes in preferences for products and packaging by consumers of prepackaged food and beverage cans significantly influence the Company’s sales. Changes in packaging by the Company’s customers may require the Company to re-tool manufacturing operations, which could require material expenditures. In addition, a decrease in the costs of, or a further increase in consumer demand for, alternative packaging could result in lower profits and reduced cash flows for the Company. For example, increases in the price of aluminum and steel and decreases in the price of plastic resin, which is a petrochemical product and may fluctuate with prices in the oil and gas market, may increase substitution of plastic food and beverage containers for metal containers or increases in the price of steel may increase substitution of aluminum packaging for aerosol products. Moreover, due to its high percentage of fixed costs, the Company may be unable to maintain its gross margin at past levels if it is not able to achieve high capacity utilization rates for its production equipment. In periods of low world-wide demand for its products, the Company experiences relatively low capacity utilization rates in its operations, which can lead to reduced margins during that period and can have an adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company’s business results depend on its ability to understand its customers’ specific preferences and requirements, and to develop, manufacture and market products that meet customer demand. The Company’s ability to develop new product offerings for a diverse group of global customers with differing preferences, while maintaining functionality and spurring innovation, is critical to its success. This requires a thorough understanding of the Company’s existing and potential customers on a global basis, particularly in potential high growth emerging markets, including the Middle East, South America, Eastern Europe and Asia. Failure to deliver quality products that meet customer needs ahead of competitors could have a significant adverse effect on the Company’s business. The loss of a major customer and/or customer consolidation could reduce the Company’s net sales and profitability. Many of the Company’s largest customers have acquired companies with similar or complementary product lines. This consolidation has increased the concentration of the Company’s business with its largest customers. In many cases, such consolidation has been accompanied by pressure from customers for lower prices, reflecting the increase in the total volume of product purchased or the elimination of a price differential between the acquiring customer and the company acquired. Increased pricing pressures from the Company’s customers may reduce the Company’s net sales and net income. The majority of the Company’s sales are to companies that have leading market positions in the sale of packaged food, beverages and household products to consumers. Although no one customer accounted for more than 10% of its net sales in 2011, 2010 or 2009, the loss of any of its major customers, a reduction in the purchasing levels of these customers or an adverse change in the terms of supply agreements with these customers could reduce the Company’s net sales and net income. A continued consolidation of the Company’s customers could exacerbate any such loss. The Company’s business is seasonal and weather conditions could reduce the Company’s net sales. The Company manufactures packaging primarily for the food and beverage can market. Its sales can be affected by weather conditions. Due principally to the seasonal nature of the soft drink, brewing, iced tea and other beverage industries, in which demand is stronger during the summer months, sales of the Company’s products have varied and are expected to vary by quarter. Shipments in the U.S. and Europe are typically greater in the second and third quarters of the year. Unseasonably cool weather can reduce consumer demand for certain beverages packaged in its containers. In addition, poor weather conditions that reduce crop yields of packaged foods can decrease customer demand for its food containers. -18- Table of Contents Crown Holdings, Inc. The Company is subject to certain restrictions that may limit its ability to make payments on its debt out of the cash reserves shown in its consolidated financial statements. The ability of the Company’s subsidiaries and joint ventures to pay dividends, make distributions, provide loans or make other payments to the Company may be restricted by applicable state and foreign laws, potentially adverse tax consequences and their agreements, including agreements governing their debt. In addition, the equity interests of the Company’s joint venture partners or other shareholders in its non-wholly owned subsidiaries in any dividend or other distribution made by these entities would need to be satisfied on a proportionate basis with the Company. As a result, the Company may not be able to access their cash flow to service its debt. The Company is subject to costs and liabilities related to stringent environmental and health and safety standards. Laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and health and safety may increase the Company’s costs of operating and reduce its profitability. The Company’s operations are subject to numerous U.S. federal and state and non-U.S. laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment, including those relating to treatment, storage and disposal of waste, the use of chemicals in the Company’s products and manufacturing process, discharges into water, emissions into the atmosphere, remediation of soil and groundwater contamination and protection of employee health and safety. Future regulations may impose stricter environmental or employee safety requirements affecting the Company’s operations or may impose additional requirements regarding consumer health and safety, such as potential restrictions on the use of bisphenol-A, a starting material used to produce internal and external coatings for some food, beverage, and aerosol containers and metal closures. Although the U.S. FDA currently permits the use of bisphenol-A in food packaging materials and confirmed in a January 2010 update that studies employing standardized toxicity tests have supported the safety of current low levels of human exposure to bisphenol-A, the FDA in that January 2010 update noted that more research was needed, and further suggested reasonable steps to reduce exposure to bisphenol-A. The FDA recently entered into a consent decree under which it agreed to issue, by March 31, 2012, a final decision on a pending citizen’s petition requesting the agency take further regulatory steps with regard to bisphenol-A. The FDA did not commit to any particular resolution of the petition or to any regulatory action. In March 2010, the EPA issued an action plan for bisphenol-A, which includes, among other things, consideration of whether to add bisphenol-A to the chemical concern list on the basis of potential environmental effects and use of the EPA’s Design for the Environment program to encourage reductions in bisphenol-A manufacturing and use. Moreover, certain U.S. Congressional bodies, states and municipalities, as well as certain foreign nations and the European Union, have considered, proposed or already passed legislation banning the use of bisphenol-A in certain products or requiring warnings regarding bisphenol-A. Further, the U.S. or additional international, federal, state or other regulatory authorities could restrict or prohibit the use of bisphenol-A in the future. In addition, recent public reports, litigation and other allegations regarding the potential health hazards of bisphenol-A could contribute to a perceived safety risk about the Company’s products and adversely impact sales or otherwise disrupt the Company’s business. While the Company is exploring various alternatives to the use of bisphenol-A and conversion to alternatives is underway in some applications, there can be no assurance the Company will be completely successful in its efforts or that the alternatives will not be more costly to the Company. Also, for example, future restrictions in some jurisdictions on air emissions of volatile organic compounds and the use of certain paint and lacquering ingredients may require the Company to employ additional control equipment or process modifications. The Company’s operations and properties, both in the U.S. and abroad, must comply with these laws and regulations. In addition, a number of governmental authorities in the U.S. and abroad have introduced or are contemplating enacting legal requirements, including emissions limitations, cap and trade systems or mandated changes in energy consumption, in response to the potential impacts of climate change. Given the wide range of potential future climate change regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates, the potential impact to the Company’s operations is uncertain. In addition, the potential impact of climate change on the Company’s operations is highly uncertain. The impact of climate change may vary by geographic location and other circumstances, including weather patterns and any impact to natural resources such as water. A number of governmental authorities both in the U.S. and abroad also have enacted, or are considering, legal requirements relating to product stewardship, including mandating recycling, the use of recycled materials and/or limitations on certain kinds of packaging materials such as plastics. In addition, some companies with packaging needs have responded to such developments, and/or to perceived environmental concerns of consumers, by using containers made in whole or in part of recycled materials. -19- Table of Contents Crown Holdings, Inc. Such developments may reduce the demand for some of the Company’s products, and/or increase its costs. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Environmental Matters” in this Annual Report. The Company has written down a significant amount of goodwill, and a further write down of goodwill would result in lower reported net income and a reduction of its net worth. During 2007, the Company recorded a charge of $103 million to write down the value of goodwill in its European Closures reporting unit due to a decrease in projected operating results. Further impairment of the Company’s goodwill would require additional write down of goodwill, which would reduce the Company’s net income in the period of any such write down. At December 31, 2011, the carrying value of the Company’s goodwill was approximately $2.0 billion. The Company is required to evaluate goodwill reflected on its balance sheet at least annually, or when circumstances indicate a potential impairment. If it determines that the goodwill is impaired, the Company would be required to write off a portion or all of the goodwill. If the Company fails to retain key management and personnel the Company may be unable to implement its business plan. Members of the Company’s senior management have extensive industry experience, and it might be difficult to find new personnel with comparable experience. Because the Company’s business is highly specialized, the Company believes that it would also be difficult to replace the Company’s key technical personnel. The Company believes that its future success depends, in large part, on its experienced senior management team. Losing the services of key members of its management team could limit the Company’s ability to implement its business plan. A significant portion of the Company’s workforce is unionized and labor disruptions could increase the Company’s costs and prevent the Company from supplying its customers. A significant portion of the Company’s workforce is unionized and a prolonged work stoppage or strike at any facility with unionized employees could increase its costs and prevent the Company from supplying its customers. In addition, upon the expiration of existing collective bargaining agreements, the Company may not reach new agreements without union action and any such new agreements may not be on terms satisfactory to the Company. Moreover, additional groups of currently non-unionized employees may seek union representation in the future. If the Company is unable to negotiate acceptable collective bargaining agreements, it may become subject to union-initiated work stoppages, including strikes. The National Labor Relations Board has adopted new regulations concerning the procedures for conducting employee representation elections that, if implemented, could make it significantly easier for labor organizations to prevail in elections. The National Labor Relations Board’s regulations are currently scheduled to become effective on April 30, 2012, but are being challenged in a number of court cases. Additionally, the Employee Free Choice Act, which was passed in the U.S. House of Representatives in 2007, was reintroduced in the U.S. Congress in 2009, but not passed. If reintroduced in the current Congress and enacted in its most recent form, the Employee Free Choice Act could make it significantly easier for union organizing drives to be successful. The Employee Free Choice Act could also give third-party arbitrators the ability to impose terms, which may be harmful to the Company, of collective bargaining agreements upon the Company and a labor union if the Company and such union are unable to agree to the terms of an initial collective bargaining agreement. In addition, the Employee Free Choice Act could increase the penalties the Company may incur if it engages in labor practices in violation of the National Labor Relations Act. -20- Table of Contents Crown Holdings, Inc. Failure by the Company’s joint venture partners to observe their obligations could adversely affect the business and operations of the joint ventures and, in turn, the business and operations of the Company. A portion of the Company’s operations, including certain joint venture beverage can operations in Asia, the Middle East and South America, is conducted through certain joint ventures. The Company participates in these ventures with third parties. In the event that the Company’s joint venture partners do not observe their obligations or are unable to commit additional capital to the joint ventures, it is possible that the affected joint venture would not be able to operate in accordance with its business plans or that the Company would have to increase its level of commitment to the joint venture. If the Company fails to maintain an effective system of internal control, the Company may not be able to accurately report financial results or prevent fraud. Effective internal controls are necessary to provide reliable financial reports and to assist in the effective prevention of fraud. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud could harm the Company’s business. The Company must annually evaluate its internal procedures to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires management and auditors to assess the effectiveness of internal controls. If the Company fails to remedy or maintain the adequacy of its internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, the Company could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties or shareholder litigation. In addition, failure to maintain adequate internal controls could result in financial statements that do not accurately reflect the Company’s financial condition. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to complete the work necessary to fully comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or that the Company’s management and external auditors will continue to conclude that the Company’s internal controls are effective. The Company is subject to litigation risks which could negatively impact its operations and net income. The Company is subject to various lawsuits and claims with respect to matters such as governmental, environmental and employee benefits laws and regulations, securities, labor, and actions arising out of the normal course of business, in addition to asbestos-related litigation described under the risk factor titled “Pending and future asbestos litigation and payments to settle asbestos-related claims could reduce the Company’s cash flow and negatively impact its financial condition.” The Company is currently unable to determine the total expense or possible loss, if any, that may ultimately be incurred in the resolution of such legal proceedings. Regardless of the ultimate outcome of such legal proceedings, they could result in significant diversion of time by the Company’s management. The results of the Company’s pending legal proceedings, including any potential settlements, are uncertain and the outcome of these disputes may decrease its cash available for operations and investment, restrict its operations or otherwise negatively impact its business, operating results, financial condition and cash flow. The Company’s Italian subsidiaries have received and expect to receive additional assessments for value added taxes and related income taxes from the Italian tax authorities resulting from certain third party suppliers’ failures to remit required value added tax payments due by those suppliers under Italian law with respect to purchases for resale to the Company. The assessments cover tax periods 2004, 2005 and 2006 and additional assessments are expected to cover periods 2007 through 2009. The expected total assessments resulting from these third party suppliers failing to remit the tax payments are approximately €40 ($52 at December 31, 2011) plus any applicable interest and penalties. In early 2012, the Company received rulings from lower level Italian courts on certain of the assessments of which one was favorable and the other was unfavorable to the Company. The Company expects both rulings to be appealed. The Company continues to believe that, if necessary, it should be able to successfully dispute the assessments and demonstrate in the appropriate Italian courts that it has no additional liability for the asserted taxes. While the Company intends to dispute the assessments, there can be no assurance that it will be successful in such disputes or regarding the final amount of additional taxes, if any, payable to the Italian tax authorities. -21- Table of Contents Crown Holdings, Inc. The recent global credit and financial crisis could have adverse effects on the Company. The recent global credit and financial crisis could have significant adverse effects on the Company’s operations, including as a result of any the following: • downturns in the business or financial condition of any of the Company’s key customers or suppliers, potentially resulting in customers’ inability to pay the Company’s invoices as they become due or at all or suppliers’ failure to fulfill their commitments; • potential losses associated with hedging activity by the Company for the benefit of its customers including counterparty risk associated with such hedging activity, or cost impacts of changing suppliers; • a decline in the fair value of the Company’s pension assets or a decline in discount rates used to measure the Company’s pension obligations, potentially requiring the Company to make significant additional contributions to its pension plans to meet prescribed funding levels; • the deterioration of any of the lending parties under the Company’s senior secured revolving credit facilities or the creditworthiness of the counterparties to the Company’s derivative transactions, which could result in such parties’ failure to satisfy their obligations under their arrangements with the Company; • noncompliance with the covenants under the Company’s indebtedness as a result of a weakening of the Company’s financial position or results of operations; and • the lack of currently available funding sources, which could have a negative impact upon the liquidity of the Company as well as that of its customers and suppliers. The Company relies on its information technology and the failure or disruption of its information technology could disrupt its operations and adversely affect its results of operations. The Company’s business increasingly relies on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of its information technology systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information. A significant portion of the communication between the Company’s personnel around the world, customers, and suppliers depends on information technology. As with all large systems, the Company’s information technology systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, telecommunication failures, user errors or catastrophic events. In addition, security breaches could result in unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. The concentration of processes in shared services centers means that any disruption could impact a large portion of the Company’s business within the operating zones served by the affected service center. If the Company does not allocate, and effectively manage, the resources necessary to build, sustain and protect the proper technology infrastructure, the Company could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, loss of customers, business disruptions, the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, as well as potential civil liability and fines under various states’ laws in which the Company does business. The Company’s information technology system could also be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes. In addition, if the Company’s information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown and the Company’s business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, the Company may lose revenue and profits as a result of its inability to timely manufacture, distribute, invoice and collect payments from its customers, and could experience delays in reporting its financial results, including with respect to the Company’s operations in emerging markets. Furthermore, if the Company is unable to prevent security breaches, it may suffer financial and reputational damage because of lost or misappropriated confidential information belonging to the Company or to its customers or suppliers. Failure or disruption of these systems, or the back-up systems, for any reason could disrupt the Company’s operations and negatively impact the Company’s cash flows or financial condition. -22- Table of Contents Crown Holdings, Inc. Potential U.S. tax law changes could increase the Company’s U.S. tax expense on its overseas earnings which could have a negative impact on its after-tax income and cash flow. President Obama’s Budget of the United States Government for 2013 indicates that legislative proposals may be made to reform the deferral of U.S. taxes on non-U.S. earnings, potentially significantly changing the timing and extent of taxation on the Company’s unrepatriated non-U.S earnings. These reforms include, among other items, a proposal to further limit foreign tax credits and a proposal to defer interest expense deductions allocable to non-U.S earnings until earnings are repatriated. The proposal to defer interest expense deductions and other deductions for expenses could result in the Company not being able to currently deduct a significant portion of its interest expense. The proposal to defer tax deductions allocable to unrepatriated non-U.S. earnings has been set out in various draft Congressional legislative proposals in recent years which were not enacted, and at this juncture it is unclear whether these proposed tax revisions will be enacted, or, if enacted, what the precise scope of the revisions will be. However, depending on their content, such proposals could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s after-tax income and cash flow. Changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements and other law could negatively affect the Company’s financial results. New accounting standards or pronouncements that may become applicable to the Company from time to time, or changes in the interpretation of existing standards and pronouncements, could have a significant effect on the Company’s reported results for the affected periods. The Company is also subject to income tax in the numerous jurisdictions in which the Company operates. Increases in income tax rates or other changes to tax laws could reduce the Company’s after-tax income from affected jurisdictions or otherwise affect the Company’s tax liability. In addition, the Company’s products are subject to import and excise duties and/or sales or value-added taxes in many jurisdictions in which it operates. Increases in indirect taxes could affect the Company’s products’ affordability and therefore reduce demand for its products. The Company may experience significant negative effects to its business as a result of new federal, state or local taxes, increases to current taxes or other governmental regulations specifically targeted to decrease the consumption of certain types of beverages. Public health officials and government officials have become increasingly concerned about the public health consequences associated with over-consumption of certain types of beverages, such as sugar beverages and including those sold by certain of the Company’s significant customers. Possible new federal, state or local taxes, increases to current taxes or other governmental regulations specifically targeted to decrease the consumption of these beverages may significantly reduce demand for the beverages of the Company’s customers, which could in turn affect demand of the Company’s customers for the Company’s products. For example, members of the U.S. Congress recently raised the possibility of a federal tax on the sale of certain beverages, including non-diet soft drinks, fruit drinks, teas and flavored waters. Some state governments are also considering similar taxes. If enacted, such taxes could materially adversely affect the Company’s business and financial results. The Company’s senior secured credit facilities provide that certain change of control events constitute an event of default. In the event of a change of control, the Company may not be able to satisfy all of its obligations under the senior secured credit facilities or other indebtedness. The Company may not have sufficient assets or be able to obtain sufficient third party financing on favorable terms to satisfy all of their obligations under the Company’s senior secured credit facilities or other indebtedness in the event of a change of control. The Company’s senior secured credit facilities provide that certain change of control events constitute an event of default under the senior secured credit facilities. Such an event of default entitles the lenders thereunder to, among other things, cause all outstanding debt obligations under the senior secured credit facilities to become due and payable and to proceed against the collateral securing the senior secured credit facilities. Any event of default or acceleration of the senior secured credit facilities will likely also cause a default under the terms of other indebtedness of the Company. -23- Table of Contents Crown Holdings, Inc. The loss of the Company’s intellectual property rights may negatively impact its ability to compete. If the Company is unable to maintain the proprietary nature of its technologies, its competitors may use its technologies to compete with it. The Company has a number of patents covering various aspects of its products, including its SuperEnd® beverage can end, whose primary patent expires in 2016, Easylift™ full aperture steel food can ends, PeelSeam™ flexible lidding and Ideal™ product line. The Company’s patents may not withstand challenge in litigation, and patents do not ensure that competitors will not develop competing products or infringe upon the Company’s patents. Moreover, the costs of litigation to defend the Company’s patents could be substantial and may outweigh the benefits of enforcing its rights under its patents. The Company markets its products internationally and the patent laws of foreign countries may offer less protection than the patent laws of the United States. Not all of the Company’s domestic patents have been registered in other countries. The Company also relies on trade secrets, know-how and other unpatented proprietary technology, and others may independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to the Company’s unpatented technology. In addition, the Company has from time to time received letters from third parties suggesting that it may be infringing on their intellectual property rights, and third parties may bring infringement suits against the Company, which could result in the Company needing to seek licenses from these third parties or refraining altogether from use of the claimed technology. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of the Company’s fiscal year relating to its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 