ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information in this annual report on Form 10-K, before deciding whether to invest in shares of our common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs with material adverse effects on Ikanos, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock will likely decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We have a limited operating history, and our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly and may do so again. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed our forecasts or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. In recent quarters, we have experienced significant fluctuations in our revenue, and revenue and operating results are likely to continue to be volatile in future periods. We have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to evaluate our business and financial prospects. While our operations began in 1999, we did not begin commercial shipments of our products until the fourth quarter of 2002. Since then, our quarterly revenue and operating results have varied significantly and are likely to continue to vary from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. For example, in the first quarter of 2005, our revenue decreased by $6.2 million, or 33%, from the preceding quarter, but then increased by $7.0 million, or 57%, in the following quarter. More recently, in the fourth quarter of 2006, our revenue declined by 43% from the third quarter of 2006. Quarterly fluctuations in revenue are characteristic of our industry. And given our concentration of revenue among a few significant customers and given their buying patterns, we have experienced, and are likely to experience again, significant quarterly fluctuations of revenue. Specifically, carriers purchase equipment based on expected deployment and OEMs may occasionally manufacture equipment at rates higher than equipment is deployed. As a result, periodically and usually without significant notice, carriers will reduce orders with OEMs for new equipment, and OEMs in turn will reduce orders for our products, which can adversely impact the quarterly demand for our products, even when deployment rates may be increasing. In addition, our expenses are also subject to quarterly fluctuations resulting from factors including the costs related to new product releases. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors for any quarter or other reporting period, the market price of our common stock may decline. Fluctuations in our operating results may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, changes in the mix of products we develop, acquire and sell as well as those identified throughout this “Risk Factors” section. As a result, you should not rely on quarter to quarter comparisons of our operating results as an indicator of future performance. We have a history of losses, and future losses may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We may not be able to generate sufficient revenue in the future to achieve or sustain profitability. Since inception, we have only been profitable in the third and fourth quarter of 2005. We incurred significant net losses prior to such quarters, and we incurred losses in the past four quarters. We had sequential decreases in revenue in the third and fourth quarters of 2006, and we incurred a net loss of $22.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $109.4 million. To achieve profitability again, we will need to generate and sustain higher revenue, while maintaining reasonable cost and expense levels. Because many of our expenses are fixed in the short term, or are incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may not be able to decrease our costs and expenses in a timely manner to offset any revenue shortfall, as occurred in the fourth quarter of 2006. We may not be able to achieve profitability again, and even if we were able to attain profitability again, we may not be able to sustain profitability on a quarterly or an annual basis in the future. 21 Table of Contents If demand for our semiconductors declines or does not grow, we will be unable to increase or sustain our revenue; and our operating results will be harmed. We currently expect our existing semiconductors to account for substantially all of our revenue for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to develop new products or to successfully integrate acquired products and technology to meet our customers’ demand in a timely manner, if demand for our semiconductors declines or fails to grow, or if the VDSLx market does not materialize as expected, it would harm our business. The markets for our products are characterized by frequent introduction of new semiconductors, short product life cycles and significant price competition. If we or our OEM customers are unable to manage product transitions in a timely and cost-effective manner, our revenue would suffer. In addition, frequent technology changes and introduction of next generation products may result in inventory obsolescence, which would increase our cost of revenue and adversely affect our operating performance. Changes in current or future laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws or regulations by federal or state agencies or foreign governments could impede the sale of our products or otherwise harm our business. The effects of regulation on our customers or the industries in which they operate may materially and adversely impact our business. For example, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has broad jurisdiction over our target markets in the United States, and the European Union (EU) has broad jurisdiction over our target markets in Europe. Although the laws and regulations of these and other federal or state agencies are not directly applicable to our products, they do apply to much of the equipment into which our products are incorporated. Governmental regulatory agencies worldwide, including the FCC and EU, may affect the ability of telephone companies to offer certain services to their customers or other aspects of their business, which may in turn impede sales of our products. The average selling prices of our products are subject to rapid declines, which may harm our revenue and profitability. The products we develop and sell are used for high volume applications and are subject to rapid declines in average selling prices due to competitive pressures and business objectives, including lowering average selling prices in order to increase market share. We have lowered our prices significantly at times to gain market share, and we expect that we will reduce prices again in the future. Offering reduced prices to one customer could likely impact our average selling prices to all customers. Our financial results will suffer if we are unable to offset any future reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes, or if we are unable to reduce our cost and expenses or develop new or enhanced products on a timely basis that bear higher selling prices. Our product mix is subject to frequent and unexpected changes, which may impact our revenue and margin. (We define margin as revenue minus cost of revenue divided by revenue.) Our product margins vary widely by product. As a result, a change in the sales mix of our products could have an impact on the forecasted revenue and margins for the quarter. In 2006, we acquired network processor products from ADI. These products are included in our Gateway product family and generally have lower margins as compared to our Access product family. Furthermore, the product margins within our Access product line can vary based on the type and performance of deployment being used as customers pay higher selling prices for higher performance. And, in Japan, we have experienced a shift from our Access products to our Gateway products as some carriers have partially shifted from building out the infrastructure to adding subscribers. Because our Access products generally have higher margins than our Gateway products, we have seen margins decline over the past several quarters in this region. While we make estimates of what we believe the product mix will be in a given quarter, actual results can be materially different than our estimates. 22 Table of Contents Because we depend on a few significant customers for a substantial portion of our revenue, the loss of any of our key customers, our inability to continue to sell existing and new products to our key customers in significant quantities or our failure to attract new significant customers could adversely impact our revenue and harm our business. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from sales to a relatively small number of customers. As a result, the loss of any significant customer or a decline in business with any significant customer would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The following customers accounted for more than 10% of our revenue for any one of the periods indicated. We have indicated the OEM customer based on information that we receive at the time of ordering. Our Direct Customer OEM Customer 2006 2005 2004 NEC Corporation (USA) NEC Corporation (Magnus) 23% 44% 45% Altima Sumitomo Electric Industries, Ltd. 19% 28% 23% Sagem Sagem 23% — — Uniquest Dasan 11% 12% 11% Uniquest Others 11% 12% 16% We expect that a small group of OEM customers, the composition of which has varied over time, will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenue in 2007 and in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, our future operating results will continue to depend on the success of our largest OEM customers and on our ability to sell existing and new products to these customers in significant quantities. Demand for our semiconductor products is based on carrier demand for our OEM customers’ systems products. Accordingly, a reduction in growth of carrier deployment of product that use our semiconductors would adversely affect our product sales and business. In addition, our relationships with some of our larger OEM customers may also deter other potential customers who compete with these customers from buying our products. To attract new customers or retain existing OEM customers, we have offered and may continue to offer certain customers favorable prices on our products. If these prices are lower than the prices paid by other existing OEM customers, we may have to offer the same lower prices to certain of these customers. In that event, our average selling prices would decline. The loss of a key customer, a reduction in sales to any major customer or our inability to attract new significant customers in the absence of any offsetting sales would harm our business. We may be unable to attract a new CEO in a timely manner; and we may be unable to attract, retain and motivate key senior management and technical personnel, which could harm our development of technology and ability to be competitive. In October 2006, our then President and Chief Executive Officer, Rajesh Vashist, was replaced as President and Chief Executive Officer and resigned from the Board of the Directors. While we are actively conducting a search for his permanent replacement, we cannot assure you that we will be able to recruit a qualified individual in a timely manner. Even though we have established an interim management team to assume our former CEO’s responsibilities, any disruption resulting from his departure may adversely impact our customer relationships, employee morale and our business. Our future success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our senior executives and key technical personnel. We do not have employment agreements with any of these executives or any other key employees that govern the length of their service. The loss of the services of senior management or technical personnel could harm our business. Furthermore, our future success depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate other senior management and qualified technical personnel, particularly software engineers, digital circuit designers, mixed-signal circuit designers and systems and algorithms engineers, and we are currently in the process of trying to hire a general manager. Competition for these employees is intense. Stock options, restricted stock units and other equity incentives generally comprise a significant portion of our compensation packages for all employees, and the expected volatility in the price of our 23 Table of Contents common stock may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain key employees, which could harm our ability to provide technologically competitive products. Because of the rapid technological development in our industry and the intense competition we face, our products tend to become outmoded or obsolete in a relatively short period of time, which requires us to provide frequent updates and/or replacements to existing products. If we do not successfully manage the transition process to next generation semiconductor products, our operating results may be harmed. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological innovation and intense competition. Accordingly, our success depends in part on our ability to develop next generation semiconductor products in a timely and cost-effective manner. The development of new semiconductor products is expensive, complex and time consuming. If we do not rapidly develop our next generation semiconductor products ahead of our competitors, we may lose both existing and potential customers to our competitors. Further, if a competitor develops a new, less expensive product using a different technological approach to delivering broadband services over existing networks, our products would no longer be competitive. Conversely, even if we are successful in rapidly developing new semiconductor products ahead of our competitors and we do not cost-effectively manage our inventory levels of existing products when making the transition to the new semiconductor products, our financial results may be negatively affected by high levels of obsolete inventory. If any of the foregoing were to occur, then our operating results would be harmed. Our products include a significant amount of firmware. If we are unable to deliver the firmware in a timely manner, we may have to delay revenue recognition at the end of a quarter, which could lead to significant unplanned fluctuations in our quarterly revenue. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed our forecasts or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. In connection with new product introductions in a given market, we release production quality code to our OEM customers. This firmware is required for our products to function as intended. If the firmware is not released in a timely manner, we may have to defer all revenue related to the semiconductors that we may have already shipped, or planned to ship, during the quarter, and therefore, cause us to miss our revenue forecast. In addition, a customer may demand a specific future software feature as part of its order. As such, we may have to delay recognition on some or all of our revenue related to that customer’s order until the future software feature is delivered. Such delays or deferrals in revenue recognition could lead to significant fluctuations in our quarterly revenue and operating results and cause us to fail to meet or exceed our quarterly revenue forecasts. We completed the NPA acquisition in February 2006, and if we are not successful in integrating the technology and retaining employees from the acquisition into our existing business, then our operating results may be adversely impacted. We are currently integrating certain technology acquired in the NPA acquisition into a single device with our existing technology. This integration may prove to be more difficult or costly than we have planned. In addition, the employees acquired in the NPA acquisition had retention agreements in place that expired in February 2007. As a result, we may experience an increased level of attrition, which in turn may effect our ability to support key development programs or customers. If we are unsuccessful in addressing these challenges, our revenue, margin and operating results may be harmed. We may rely on one wafer foundry and one assembly and test subcontractor to manufacture, package and test many of our products, and our failure to secure and maintain sufficient capacity with these subcontractors could impair our relationships with customers and decrease sales, which would negatively impact our market share and operating results. We are a fabless semiconductor company in that we do not own or operate a fabrication or manufacturing facility. Currently, five wafer foundries and three outside factory subcontractors, located in Austria, Israel, 24 Table of Contents Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan and the United States, manufacture, assemble and test all of our semiconductor devices in current production. While we work with multiple suppliers, only one foundry and one assembly and test subcontractor may be used for each of our products. Accordingly, we are greatly dependent on a limited number of suppliers to deliver quality products on time. In past periods of high demand in the semiconductor market, we have experienced delays in meeting our capacity demand and as a result were unable to deliver products to our customers on a timely basis. In addition, we have experienced similar delays due to technical and quality control problems. Furthermore, our costs for manufacturing services or components have increased from time to time without significant notice. In the future, if any of these events occur, or if the facilities of any of our subcontractors suffer any damage, power outages, financial difficulties or any other disruption due to natural disasters, terrorist acts or otherwise, we may be unable to meet our customer demand on a timely basis, or at all; and we may be required to incur additional costs and may need to successfully qualify an alternative facility in order to not disrupt our business. We typically require several months or more to qualify a new facility or process before we can begin shipping products. If we cannot accomplish this qualification in a timely manner, we would experience a significant interruption in supply of the affected products which could in turn cause our costs of revenue to increase and our overall revenue to decrease. If we are unable to secure sufficient capacity at our subcontractors’ existing facilities, or in the event of a closure or significant delay at any of these facilities, our relationships with our customers would be harmed and our market share and operating results would suffer as a result. In addition, we do not have formal pricing agreements with our subcontractors regarding the pricing for the products and services that they provide us. If their pricing for the products and services they provide increases and we are unable to pass along such increases to our OEM customers, our operating results would be adversely affected. In the event we seek to use new wafer foundries to manufacture a portion of our semiconductor products, we may not be able to bring the new foundries on-line rapidly enough and may not achieve the anticipated cost reductions. As indicated, we use five independent wafer foundries to manufacture all of our semiconductor products, which expose us to risks of delay, increased costs and customer dissatisfaction in the event that any of these foundries were unable to provide us with our semiconductor requirements. Particularly during times when semiconductor capacity is limited, we may seek to qualify additional wafer foundries to meet our requirements. In order to bring these new foundries on-line, our customers may need to qualify product from the new facility, which could take several months or more. Once qualified, these new foundries would then require an additional number of months to actually begin producing semiconductors to meet our needs, by which time our perceived need for additional capacity may have passed or the opportunities we previously identified may have been lost to our competitors. Furthermore, even if these new foundries offer better pricing than our existing manufacturers, if they prove to be less reliable than our existing manufacturers, we would not achieve some or all of our anticipated cost reductions. If our subcontractors’ manufacturing facilities do not achieve satisfactory quality or yields, our relationships with our customers and our reputation will be harmed, our revenue and operating results could decline, and our cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue could increase. Manufacturing defects may not be detected by the testing process performed by our subcontractors. If defects are discovered after we have shipped our products, we have and could continue to experience warranty and consequential damages claims from our customers. In January 2007, a significant customer notified us that they were experiencing a high defect rate on a certain product that was manufactured and shipped in the last month of fiscal 2006. On February 8, 2007, the customer submitted a claim seeking replacement parts and specified damages. We evaluated the merits of the claim, concluded it was in our best interests to resolve the matter, and on February 26, 2007, entered into a settlement agreement releasing us of all liabilities associated with this claim in exchange for a payment and providing replacement parts. The cash payment was reflected as an offset to revenue in the fourth quarter of 2006. Such claims as this one or others may have a significant 25 Table of Contents adverse impact on our revenue and operating results. Furthermore, if we are unable to deliver quality products, our reputation would be harmed, which could result in the loss of, future orders and business with these OEMs. If any of these adverse risks are realized and we are not able to offset the lost opportunities, our revenue, margins and operating results would decline. The fabrication of semiconductors is a complex and technically demanding process. Minor deviations in the manufacturing process can cause substantial decreases in yields; and in some cases, cause production to be stopped or suspended. We have experienced difficulties in achieving acceptable yields on some of our products, particularly with new products, which frequently involve newer manufacturing processes and smaller geometry features than previous generations. Maintaining high numbers of shippable die per wafer is critical to our operating results, as decreased yields can result in higher per-unit cost, shipment delays and increased expenses associated with resolving yield problems. Although we work closely with our subcontractors to minimize the likelihood of reduced manufacturing yields, their facilities have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields that have resulted in our inability to meet our customer demand. For instance, in the third quarter of 2006, we were unable to fulfill a certain amount of our customers’ orders due to difficulties in attaining acceptable yields on one of our products. While we solved the manufacturing process issue in the fourth quarter of 2006, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in improving yields on any future product or in correcting manufacturing problems with our subcontractors. It is common for yields in semiconductor fabrication facilities to decrease in times of high demand or due to poor workmanship or operational problems at these facilities. When these events occur, especially simultaneously, as happens from time to time, we may be unable to supply our customers’ demand. Many of these problems are difficult to detect at an early stage of the manufacturing process and, regardless of when the problems are detected, they may be time consuming and expensive to correct. In addition, because we purchase wafers, our exposure to low wafer yields from our subcontractors’ wafer foundries are increased. Poor yields from the wafer foundries or defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our products could cause us significant customer relations and business reputation problems, or force us to sell our products at lower gross margins and therefore harm our financial results. Conversely, unexpected yield improvements could result in us holding excess inventory that would also increase our product cost and negatively impact our profitability. We base orders for inventory on our forecasts of our OEM customers’ demand and if our forecasts are inaccurate, our financial condition and liquidity would suffer. We place orders with our suppliers based on our forecasts of our OEM customers’ demand. Our forecasts are based on multiple assumptions, each of which may introduce errors into our estimates. In the past, when the demand for our OEM customers’ products increased significantly, we were not able to meet demand on a timely basis, and we expended a significant amount of time working with our customers to allocate limited supply and maintain positive customer relations. If we underestimate customer demand, we may forego revenue opportunities, lose market share and damage our customer relationships. Conversely, if we overestimate customer demand, we may allocate resources to manufacturing products that we may not be able to sell. As a result, we would have excess or obsolete inventory, resulting in a decline in the value of our inventory, which would increase our cost of revenue and create a drain on our liquidity. Our failure to accurately manage inventory against demand would adversely affect our financial results. To remain competitive, we need to continue to reduce the cost of our semiconductor chips, which includes migrating to smaller geometrical process, and our failure to do so may harm our business. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometrical processes, which are measured in microns or nanometers. We have designed our products to be manufactured in 0.8 micron, 0.25 micron, 0.18 micron, 0.13 micron and 0.09 micron (or 90 nanometer) geometrical processes. We are currently migrating some of our products to even smaller 65 nanometer geometrical process technology, and over time, we are likely to migrate to even smaller geometries. The smaller geometry generally reduces our 26 Table of Contents production and packaging costs, which may enable us to be competitive in our pricing. The transition to smaller geometries requires us to work with our subcontractors to modify the manufacturing processes for our products and to redesign some products. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased product costs and expenses. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers, and our failure to do so would impact our ability to provide competitive prices to our customers, which would have a negative impact on our sales. Additionally, upfront expenses associated with smaller geometry process technologies such as for masks and tooling can be significantly higher than those for the processes that we currently use, and our migration to these newer process technologies can result in significantly higher research and development expenses. We face intense competition in the semiconductor industry and the broadband communications markets, which could reduce our market share and negatively impact our revenue. The semiconductor industry and the broadband communications markets are intensely competitive. We currently compete or expect to compete with, among others, Broadcom Corporation, Centillium Communications, Inc., Conexant Systems, Inc., Infineon Technologies A.G., Marvell Technology Group Ltd., STMicroelectronics N.V. and Texas Instruments Incorporated, which companies, we believe, have experience in VDSLx, or VDSL-like, technology. We also expect to compete with, among others, Freescale Semiconductor, Inc., Intel Corporation, Marvell Technology Group Ltd., PMC-Sierra, Inc. and Realtek Semiconductor Corp in the network processing market. We expect competition to continue to increase. Competition has resulted and may continue to result in declining average selling prices for our products and market share. We consider other companies that have access to DMT technology as potential competitors in the future, and we also may face competition from newly established competitors, suppliers of products based on new or emerging technologies and customers who choose to develop their own semiconductors. To remain competitive, we need to provide products that are designed to meet our customers’ needs. Our products must: • achieve optimal product performance; • comply with industry standards; • be cost-effective for our customers’ use in their systems; • meet functional specifications; • be introduced timely to the market; and • be supported by a high-level of customer service and support. Many of our competitors operate their own fabrication facilities or have stronger manufacturing partner relationships than we have. In addition, many of our competitors have extensive technology libraries that could enable them to incorporate fiber-fast broadband or network processing technologies into a more attractive product line than ours. Many of them also have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than we do. These competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers, resellers or other third parties. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Existing or new competitors may also develop alternative technologies that more effectively address our markets with products that offer enhanced features and functionality, lower power requirements, greater levels of semiconductor integration or lower cost. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or new competitors, in which case we may lose market share in our existing markets and our revenue may fail to increase or may decline. 27 Table of Contents Other data transmission technologies and network processing technologies may compete effectively with the carrier services addressed by our products, which could adversely affect our revenue and business. Our revenue is dependent on the increase in demand for carrier services that use VDSLx broadband technology and integrated residential gateways. Besides VDSLx and other DMT-based technologies, carriers can decide to deploy passive optical networks, which is some times also referred to as PON or fiber. In this case, fiber is used to connect directly to the residence instead of using the existing copper phone line. As such, if a carrier decides to deploy fiber-to-the-home, our VSDL solutions are not required. For example, a major carrier in Korea announced its intention to use more fiber-to-the-home deployments in the future. Such deployments of fiber may be in lieu of VDSLx solutions. If more carriers decide to use fiber-to-the-home deployments, it could harm our business. Furthermore, residential gateways compete against a variety of different data distribution technologies, including Ethernet routers, set-top boxes provided by cable and satellite providers, wireless (WiMax) and emerging power line and multimedia over coax alliance technologies. If any of these competing technologies proves to be more reliable, faster or less expensive than, or has any other advantages over the Fiber Fast broadband technologies we provide, the demand for our products may decrease and our business would be harmed. If we are unable to develop, introduce or to achieve market acceptance of our new semiconductor products, our operating results would be adversely affected. Our future success depends on our ability to develop new semiconductor products and transition to new products, introduce these products in a cost-effective and timely manner and convince OEMs to select our products for design into their new systems. Our historical quarterly results have been, and we expect that our future results will continue to be, dependent on the introduction of a relatively small number of new products and the timely completion and delivery of those products to customers. The development of new semiconductor products is complex, and from time to time we have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. We have in the past invested substantial resources in emerging technologies that did not achieve the market acceptance that we had expected. Our ability to develop and deliver new semiconductor products successfully will depend on various factors, including our ability to: • successfully integrate certain technologies acquired in the NPA acquisition into our product lines; • accurately predict market requirements and evolving industry standards; • accurately define new semiconductor products; • timely complete and introduce new product designs; • timely qualify and obtain industry interoperability certification of our products and the equipment into which our products will be incorporated; • ensure that our subcontractors have sufficient foundry capacity and packaging materials and achieve acceptable manufacturing yields; • shift our products to smaller geometry process technologies to achieve lower cost and higher levels of design integration; and • gain market acceptance of our products and our OEM customers’ products. If we are unable to develop and introduce new semiconductor products successfully and in a cost-effective and timely manner, we will not be able to attract new customers or retain our existing customers, which would harm our business. 28 Table of Contents Our success is dependent upon achieving design wins into commercially successful OEM systems. Our products are generally incorporated into our OEMs customers’ systems at the design stage. As a result, we rely on OEMs to select our products to be designed into their systems, which we refer to as a “design win”. We often incur significant expenditures in obtaining a design win without any assurance that an OEM will select our product for design into its own system. Additionally, in some instances, we are dependent on third parties to obtain or provide information that we need to achieve a design win. Some of these third parties may not supply this information to us on a timely basis, if at all. Furthermore, even if an OEM designs one of our products into its system offering, we cannot be assured that its equipment will be commercially successful or that we will receive any revenue as a result of that design win. Our OEM customers are typically not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to stop using our products if their own systems are not commercially successful, if they decide to pursue other systems strategies, or for any other reason. If we are unable to achieve design wins or if our OEM customers’ systems incorporating our products are not commercially successful, our revenue would suffer. Acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or investments may impair our capital and equity resources, divert our management’s attention or otherwise negatively impact our operating results. We intend to continue to actively pursue acquisitions, strategic partnerships and joint ventures that we believe may allow us to complement our growth strategy, increase market share in our current markets and expand into adjacent markets, broaden our technology and intellectual property and strengthen our relationships with carriers and OEMs. For example, in 2006, we completed the NPA and Doradus acquisitions. These transactions consumed significant management attention, added to our expenses and used $34.9 million in cash. Any future acquisition, partnership, joint venture or investment may require that we pay significant cash, issue stock, thereby diluting existing stockholders, or incur substantial debt. Acquisitions, partnerships or joint ventures may also require significant managerial attention, which may divert our focus. These capital, equity and managerial commitments may impair the operation of our business. Furthermore, acquired businesses may not be effectively integrated, may be unable to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships, may result in the loss of key personnel, may contribute to increased fixed costs and may expose us to unanticipated liabilities and otherwise harm our operating results. Recent reductions in force could interfere with our ability to achieve our business objectives. In November 2006, we reduced the number of employees and contractors in our workforce by approximately 30 people. These reductions were principally in our engineering departments and have resulted in reallocations of employee duties. Workforce reductions and job reassignments could negatively affect employee morale and make it difficult to motivate and retain the remaining employees and contractors, which would affect our ability to deliver our products in a timely fashion and otherwise negatively affect our business. We rely on third-party sales representatives to assist in selling our products, and the failure of these representatives to perform as expected could reduce our future sales. We sell our products to some of our OEM customers through third-party sales representatives. Our relationships with some of our third-party sales representatives have been established within the last three years, and we are unable to predict the extent to which our third-party sales representatives will be successful in marketing and selling our products. Moreover, many of our third-party sales representatives also market and sell competing products. Our third-party sales representatives may terminate their relationships with us at any time, or with short notice. Our future performance will also depend, in part, on our ability to attract additional third-party sales representatives that will be able to market and support our products effectively, especially in markets in which we have not previously distributed our products. If we cannot retain our current third-party sales representatives and recruit additional or replacement third-party sales representatives, our revenue and operating results could be harmed. 29 Table of Contents Rapidly changing standards and regulations could make our products obsolete, which would cause our revenue and operating results to suffer. We design our products to conform to regulations established by governments and to standards set by industry standards bodies worldwide such as The American National Standards Institute and The Committee T1E1.4 in North America, European Telecommunications Standards Institute in Europe and ITU-T and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. worldwide. Because our products are designed to conform to current specific industry standards, if competing standards emerge that are preferred by our customers, we would have to make significant expenditures to develop new products. If our customers adopt new or competing industry standards with which our products are not compatible, or the industry groups adopt standards or governments issue regulations with which our products are not compatible, our existing products would become less desirable to our customers and our revenue and operating results would suffer. If we fail to secure or protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may be able to use our technologies, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our revenue or increase our cost. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights in the United States. We do not currently have any applications on file in any foreign jurisdictions with respect to our intellectual property notwithstanding the fact nearly all of our revenue is generated outside of the United States. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents, and our existing and future patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies or may be held invalid or unenforceable in court. While we are not currently aware of misappropriation of our existing technology, policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our technologies, particularly in foreign countries where we have not applied for patent protections and, even if such protections were available, the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as U.S. law. The patents we have obtained or licensed, or may obtain or license in the future, may not be adequate to protect our proprietary rights. Our competitors may independently develop or may have already developed technology similar to ours, duplicate our products or design around any patents issued to us or our other intellectual property. In addition, we have been, and may be, required to license our patents as a result of our participation in various standards organizations. If competitors appropriate our technology and we are not adequately protected, our competitive position would be harmed, our legal costs would increase and our revenue would be harmed. Third-party claims of infringement or other claims against us could adversely affect our ability to market our products, require us to redesign our products or seek licenses from third parties, and harm our business. In addition, any litigation required to defend such claims could result in significant expenses and diversion of our resources. Companies in the semiconductor industry often aggressively protect and pursue their intellectual property rights. From time to time, we receive, and are likely to continue to receive in the future, notices that claim we have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused other parties’ proprietary rights. While we do not believe that we are currently infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties, we may in the future be engaged in litigation with parties who claim that we have infringed their patents or misappropriated or misused their trade secrets or who may seek to invalidate one or more of our patents, and it is possible that we would not prevail in any future lawsuits. An adverse determination in any of these types of claims could prevent us from manufacturing or selling some of our products could increase our costs of products and could expose us to significant liability. Any of these claims could harm our business. For example, in a patent or trade secret action, a court could issue a preliminary or permanent injunction that would require us to withdraw or recall certain products from the market or redesign certain products offered for sale or that are under development. In addition, we may be liable for damages for past infringement and royalties for future use of the technology and we may be liable for treble damages if infringement is found to have been willful. Even if claims against us are not valid or successfully asserted, these claims could result in significant costs and a diversion of management and personnel resources to defend. 30 Table of Contents Any potential dispute involving our patents or other intellectual property could also include our manufacturing subcontractors and OEM customers and/or carriers using our products, which could trigger our indemnification obligations to them and result in substantial expense to us. In any potential dispute involving our patents or other intellectual property, our manufacturing subcontractors and OEM customers could also become the target of litigation. Because we often indemnify our customers for intellectual property claims made against them for products incorporating our technology, any litigation could trigger technical support and indemnification obligations in some of our license agreements, which could result in substantial expenses such as increased legal expenses, damages for past infringement, or royalties for future use. In the fourth quarter of 2006, an OEM customer informed us of a potential indemnity claim against our technology. While we are still assessing the validity of the claim, it, or any future indemnity claim, could adversely affect our relationships with our OEM customers and result in substantial costs to us. Our products typically have lengthy sales cycles, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate and result in volatility in the price of our common stock. An OEM customer or a carrier may decide to cancel or change its product plans, which could cause us to lose anticipated sales. After we have delivered a product to an OEM customer, the OEM will usually test and evaluate our product with its carrier customer prior to the OEM completing the design of its own equipment that will incorporate our product. Our OEM customers and the carriers may need three to more than six months to test, evaluate and adopt our product and an additional three to more than nine months to begin volume production of equipment that incorporates our product. Due to this lengthy sales cycle, we may experience significant delays from the time we increase our operating expenses and make investments in inventory until the time that we generate revenue from these products. It is possible that we may never generate any revenue from these products after incurring these expenditures and investments. Even if an OEM customer selects our product to incorporate into its equipment, we have no assurances that the customer will ultimately market and sell its equipment or that such efforts by our customer will be successful. The delays inherent in our lengthy sales cycle increases the risk that an OEM customer or carrier will decide to cancel or change its product plans. From time to time, we have experienced changes and cancellations in the purchase plans of our OEM customers. A cancellation or change in plans by an OEM customer or carrier could cause us to not achieve anticipated revenue and result in volatility of the price of our common stock. In addition, our anticipated sales could be lost or substantially reduced if a significant OEM customer or carrier reduces or delays orders during our sales cycle or chooses not to release equipment that contains our products. Significant fluctuations or a slowdown in deployment of fiber extension over copper and broadband over copper in Asia would adversely affect our operating results. Sales to customers located in Asia accounted for 70% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 98% for the year ended December 31, 2005. Our sales have been dependent on the continuous growth of new fiber extension over copper and broadband over copper subscribers in Asia. Fluctuations in or a plateau of new subscribers in Asia may impact our revenue and a sustained slow down in growth of fiber extension over copper and broadband over copper subscribers in Asia may cause our revenue to decline. For instance, our revenue declined sequentially by 11% in the third quarter of 2006 and further declined by 43% in the fourth quarter of 2006 principally due to a reduction in demand for our products in Japan and Korea as well as a general slow down in the telecommunication integrated circuit (IC) market. We have historically derived a substantial amount of our revenue from Asia; and with the NPA acquisition, a majority of our network processing revenue comes from a single customer in Europe. If we fail to diversify the geographic sources and customer base of our revenue in the future, our operating results could be harmed. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from sales into Japan, Korea and France; and our revenue has been heavily dependent on developments in these markets. As a result, our sales are subject to economic downturns, decrease in demand and overall negative market conditions in Japan, Korea and France. While 31 Table of Contents part of our strategy is to continue to diversify the geographic sources and customer base of our revenue, our failure to successfully penetrate markets outside of Japan, Korea and France, and to successfully diversify our customer base could harm our business and operating results. The complexity of our products could result in unforeseen delays or expenses and in undetected defects or bugs, which could damage our reputation with current or prospective customers and adversely affect the market acceptance of new products. Highly complex products such as those that we offer frequently contain defects and bugs, particularly when they are first introduced or as new versions are released. In the past, we have experienced, and may in the future experience, defects and bugs in our products. If any of our products contains defects or bugs, or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged; and our OEM customers may be reluctant to buy our products, which could harm our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. In addition, these defects or bugs could interrupt or delay sales or shipment of our products to our customers. Recent changes to environmental laws and regulations applicable to manufacturers of electrical and electronic equipment are causing us to redesign our products, and may result in increases to our costs and greater exposure to liability. The implementation of new environmental regulatory legal requirements, such as lead free initiatives, impact our product designs and manufacturing processes. The impact of such regulations on our product designs and manufacturing processes could affect the timing of compliant product introductions as well as their commercial success. For example, a recent directive in the European Union banned the use of lead and other heavy metals in electrical and electronic equipment after July 1, 2006. As a result, some of our customers selling products in Europe are demanding product from component manufacturers that do not contain these banned substances. Because most of our existing assembly processes (as well as those of most other manufacturers) utilize a tin-lead alloy as a soldering material in the manufacturing process, we must redesign many of our products if we are to meet customer demand. This redesign may result in increased research and development and manufacturing and quality control costs. In January 2007, a customer could not get a certain number of lead free semiconductors to properly bond on the printed circuit board. We believe the lead-free substrates could have contributed to the bonding problem. In addition, given the limited experience and knowledge with the materials and processes used to manufacture lead-free parts, we may incur quality issues or production delays. Furthermore, the products that we manufacture that comply with the new regulatory standards may not perform as well as our current products. Moreover, if we are unable to successfully and timely redesign existing products and introduce new products that meet the standards set by environmental regulation and our customers, sales of our products could decline, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. When demand for manufacturing capacity is high, we may take various actions to try to secure sufficient capacity, which may be costly and negatively impact our operating results. The ability of each of our subcontractors’ manufacturing facilities to provide us with semiconductors is limited by its available capacity and existing obligations. Although we have purchase order commitments to supply specified levels of products to our OEM customers, we do not have a guaranteed level of production capacity from any of our subcontractors’ facilities that we depend on to produce our semiconductors. Facility capacity may not be available when we need it or at reasonable prices. We place our orders on the basis of our OEM customers’ purchase orders or our forecast of customer demand, and our subcontractors may not be able to meet our requirements in a timely manner. For example, in the first nine months of 2004, the second half of 2005 and in the first half of 2006, general market conditions in the semiconductor industry resulted in a significant increase in demand at these facilities. The demand for some of our OEM customers’ products increased significantly, and we were asked to produce significantly higher quantities than in the past and to deliver on short notice. In addition, our subcontractors have also allocated capacity to the production of other 32 Table of Contents companies’ products and reduced deliveries to us on short notice. It is possible that our subcontractors’ other customers that are larger and better financed than we are, or that have long-term agreements with our subcontractors, may have induced our subcontractors to reallocate capacity to them. If this reallocation were to occur again, it would impair our ability to deliver products on a timely basis. In order to secure sufficient manufacturing facility capacity when demand is high and mitigate the risks described in the foregoing paragraphs, we may enter into various arrangements with subcontractors that could be costly and harm our operating results, including: • option payments or other prepayments to a subcontractor; • nonrefundable deposits with or loans to subcontractors in exchange for capacity commitments; • contracts that commit us to purchase specified quantities of components over extended periods; • purchase of testing equipment for specific use at our subcontractors’ facilities; • issuance of our equity securities to a subcontractor; and • other contractual relationships with subcontractors. We may not be able to make any such arrangements in a timely fashion or at all, and any arrangements may be costly, reduce our financial flexibility and not be on terms favorable to us. Moreover, if we are able to secure facility capacity, we may be obligated to use all of that capacity or incur penalties. These penalties and obligations may be expensive and require significant capital and could harm our business. We rely on third-party technologies for the development of our products; and our inability to use such technologies in the future would harm our ability to remain competitive. We rely on third parties for technologies that are integrated into some of our products, including memory cells, input/output cells and core processor logic. If we are unable to continue to use or license these technologies on reasonable terms, or if these technologies fail to operate properly, we may not be able to secure alternatives in a timely manner and our ability to remain competitive would be harmed. In addition, if we are unable to successfully license technology from third parties to develop future products, we may not be able to develop such products in a timely manner or at all. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, increased costs as a result of being a public company. Recently enacted and proposed changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley, and recent rules enacted and proposed by the SEC and the Nasdaq National Market, are resulting in increased costs to us as we respond to their requirements. In particular, the costs to comply with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, as presently in effect, has and could continue to have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The new rules could also make it more difficult for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage and/or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, on committees of our board of directors, or as executive officers. Compliance with the requirements imposed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could harm our operating results, our ability to operate our business and our investors’ view of us. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley. There is a 33 Table of Contents risk that neither we, nor our independent registered public accounting firm, will be able to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective as required by Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley. In addition, during the course of our testing we may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by Sarbanes-Oxley for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. Effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, valuation of inventory and warranty provisions, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. We need to attract and retain key employees in our finance and operation departments. If we fail to do so, our ability to meet reporting and compliance regulations could be affected. In 2006, the employment of several key employees in our finance department terminated. We have recently hired certain key financial personnel and may need to hire additional personnel in the future. As a result of these changes, we may face difficulties in integrating these employees and adhering to reporting and compliance regulations, which could harm the ability to operate our business as a public company and investors’ may lose confidence in our ability to operate in compliance with existing internal controls rules and regulations, either of which could result in a decline in our stock price. Due to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor and telecommunications industries, our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and subject to rapid change and evolving industry standards and, from time to time, has experienced significant downturns. These downturns are characterized by decreases in product demand, excess customer inventories and accelerated erosion of prices. These factors could cause substantial fluctuations in our revenue and in our operating results. Any downturns in the semiconductor or broadband communications industry may be severe and prolonged, and any failure of this industry or the broadband communications markets to fully recover from downturns could harm our business. The semiconductor industry also periodically experiences increased demand and production capacity constraints, which may affect our ability to ship products. Accordingly, our operating results may vary significantly as a result of the general conditions in the semiconductor or broadband communications industry, which could cause our stock price to decline. In addition, the telecommunications industry from time to time has experienced and may again experience a pronounced downturn. To respond to a downturn, many carriers may be required to slow their capital expenditures, cancel or delay new developments, reduce their workforces and inventories and take a cautious approach to acquiring new equipment and technologies from OEMs, which would have a negative impact on our business. In the future, a downturn in the telecommunications industry may cause our operating results to fluctuate from year to year, which also may tend to increase the volatility of the price of our common stock and harm our business. We are highly dependent on manufacturing, development and sales activities outside of the United States; and as our international manufacturing, development and sales operations expand, we will be increasingly exposed to various legal, business, political and economic risks associated with our international operations. We currently obtain substantially all of our manufacturing, assembly and testing services from suppliers and subcontractors located outside the United States, and have a significant portion of our research and development team located in Bangalore and Hyderabad, India. In addition, 96% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 99% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005 was derived from sales to customers outside the United States. We have expanded our international business activities and may open other 34 Table of Contents design and operational centers abroad. International operations are subject to many other inherent risks, including but not limited to: • political, social and economic instability, including terrorist acts; • exposure to different legal standards, particularly with respect to intellectual property; • natural disasters and public health emergencies; • trade and travel restrictions; • the imposition of governmental controls and restrictions or unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; • import and export license requirements and restrictions of the United States and each other country in which we operate; • foreign technical standards; • changes in tariffs; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • difficulties in collecting receivables from foreign entities or delayed revenue recognition; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Because we are currently substantially dependent on our foreign sales, research and development and operations, any of the factors described above could significantly harm our ability to produce quality products in a timely and cost effective manner, and increase or maintain our foreign sales. Fluctuations in exchange rates between and among the Japanese yen, the Korean won, the Indian rupee, the U.S. dollar, the Canadian dollar and the Euro, as well as other currencies in which we do business, may adversely affect our operating results. We transact business internationally. As a result, we may experience foreign exchange gains or losses due to the volatility of other currencies compared to the U.S. dollar. Our sales have been historically denominated in U.S. dollars and an increase in the U.S. dollar relative to the currencies of the countries that our customers operate in could materially affect our Asian and European customers’ demand for our products, thereby forcing them to reduce their orders, which would adversely affect our business. We incur a portion of our expenses in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including the Japanese yen, Korean won, Indian rupee, Canadian dollar and the euro. As we report our results in U.S. dollars, the difference in exchange rates in one period compared to another directly impacts period to period comparisons of our operating results. Furthermore, currency exchange rates have been especially volatile in the recent past and these currency fluctuations may make it difficult for us to predict and/or provide guidance on our results. Currently we have not implemented any strategies to mitigate risks related to the impact of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Even if we were to implement hedging strategies, not every exposure is or can be hedged, and, where hedges are put in place based on expected foreign exchange exposure, they are based on forecasts which may vary or which may later prove to have been inaccurate. Failure to hedge successfully or anticipate currency risks properly could adversely affect our operating results. We cannot predict future currency exchange rate changes. 35 Table of Contents Several of the facilities that manufacture our products, most of our OEM customers and the carriers they serve, and our California facility are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. Several of our subcontractors’ facilities that manufacture, assemble and test our products, and one of our subcontractor’s wafer foundries, are located in Taiwan. Our customers are currently primarily located in Japan and Korea. The Asia-Pacific region has experienced significant earthquakes in the past and could be subject to additional seismic activities. Any earthquake or other natural disaster in these areas could significantly disrupt these manufacturing facilities’ production capabilities and could result in our experiencing a significant delay in delivery, or substantial shortage, of wafers in particular, and possibly in higher wafer prices, and our products in general. Our headquarters in California are also located near major earthquake fault lines. If there is a major earthquake or any other natural disaster in a region where one of our facilities is located, it could significantly disrupt our operations. Changes in our tax rates could affect our future results. Our future effective tax rates could be favorably or unfavorably affected by the absolute amount and future geographic distribution of our pre-tax income, our ability to successfully shift our operating activities to our foreign operations and the amount and timing of inter-company payments from our foreign operations subject to U.S. income taxes related to the transfer of certain rights and functions. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid, or at all. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially since our initial public offering and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. Fluctuations have occurred and may continue to occur in response to various factors, many of which we cannot control, including: • quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results; • announcements of changes in our senior management; • the gain or loss of one or more significant customers or suppliers; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors, customers or us; • the gain or loss of market share in any of our markets; • general economic and political conditions and specific conditions in the semiconductor industry and broadband technology markets, including seasonality in sales of consumer products into which our products are incorporated; • continuing international conflicts and acts of terrorism; • changes in earnings estimates or investment recommendations by analysts; • changes in investor perceptions; • changes in product mix; or • changes in expectations relating to our products, plans and strategic position or those of our competitors or customers. In addition, the market prices of securities of semiconductor and other technology companies have been volatile, particularly companies, like ours, with low trading volumes. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating 36 Table of Contents performance of the specific companies. Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid. The pending class action litigation could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. In November 2006, three putative class action lawsuits were filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against us, our directors, an executive officer and a former executive officer. These lawsuits allege certain misrepresentations by us in connection with our initial public offering in September 2005, the follow-on offering in March 2006, and thereafter concerning our business and prospects. The lawsuits seek unspecified damages. Although we have been served with the initial complaints, we are aware that the plaintiffs will be filing a consolidated amended compliant in the near future, which could contain new allegations of which we are presently unaware. We cannot predict the likely outcome of this litigation, and an adverse result could have a material effect on our financial statements. If we are not successful in our defense of the lawsuits, we could be forced to make significant payments to class members and their lawyers, and such payments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, if not covered by our insurance carriers. Even if such claims are not successful, the litigation could result in substantial expenses and the diversion of management’s attention, which could have an adverse effect on our business. If securities or industry analysts do not continue to publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue an adverse opinion regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us issue an adverse opinion regarding our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Substantial future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately 27.7 million shares of common stock outstanding. Of these shares, 6.4 million were sold in our initial public offering in September 2005 and an additional 2.5 million were sold in a follow-on public offering in March 2006. All of these shares are freely tradable under federal and state securities laws without further registration under the Securities Act, except that any shares held by our “affiliates” (as that term is defined under Rule 144 of the Securities Act) may be sold only in compliance with the limitations under Rule 144. The remaining outstanding shares are “restricted securities” and generally are available for sale in the public market at various times upon qualification for exemption pursuant to Rules 144 and/or 701 of the Securities Act. In the future, we are also likely to issue additional shares to our employees, directors or consultants, as well as in connection with corporate alliances or acquisitions, and in follow-on offerings to raise additional capital. Due to these factors, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales could reduce the market price of our common stock. 37 Table of Contents Delaware law and our corporate charter and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: • the right of the board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors; • the establishment of a classified board of directors requiring that not all members of the board be elected at one time; • the prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; • the requirement for advance notice for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting; • the ability of the board of directors to alter our bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval; • the ability of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with terms set by the board of directors, which rights could be senior to those of common stock; • the required approval of holders of at least two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws or amend or repeal the provisions of our certificate of incorporation regarding the election and removal of directors and the ability of stockholders to take action; • the required approval of holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to remove directors for cause; and • the elimination of the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to take action by written consent. We are also subject to provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for three years after the point in time that such stockholder acquired shares constituting 15% or more of our shares, unless the holder’s acquisition of our stock was approved in advance by our board of directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 