Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risks should be read in conjunction with other information contained, or incorporated by reference, in this report, including the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” section and our consolidated financial statements and related notes. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Our increased indebtedness may harm our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2007, our total consolidated long-term debt was $236.5 million. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to us and you, including: • it could adversely affect our ability to satisfy our obligations; • an increased portion of our cash flows from operations may have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; • it may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; • it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and • it may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general. Our operations may not generate sufficient cash to enable us to service our debt. If we were to fail to make any required payment under the agreements governing our indebtedness or fail to comply with the financial and operating covenants contained in these agreements, we would be in default. Our lenders would have the ability to require that we immediately pay all outstanding indebtedness. If the lenders were to require immediate payment, we might not have sufficient assets to satisfy our obligations under our credit facility, our notes or our other indebtedness. In such event, we could be forced to seek protection under bankruptcy laws, which could have a material adverse effect on our existing contracts and our ability to procure new contracts as well as our ability to recruit and/or retain employees. Accordingly, a default could have a significant adverse effect on the market value and marketability of our common stock. Additionally, if it is determined that the notes should be accounted for under the liability method in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles of the United States, the effect of this accounting treatment could result in significant fluctuations in our earnings from period to period. The anticipated benefits of the LogistiCare acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. The LogistiCare acquisition involves the integration of two companies that have previously operated independently with principal offices in two distinct locations. We are required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the two companies and difficulties could include, among other things, integrating financial accounting systems, intellectual technology functions and operations. Any delays in this process could adversely affect the combined company’s business, financial results, financial condition and stock price. Even if we were able to integrate our business operations successfully, there can be no assurance that this integration will result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings, innovation and operational 13 Table of Contents efficiencies that may be possible from this integration or that these benefits will be achieved within a reasonable period of time. See also “—Any acquisition that we undertake could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and harm our operating results.” Changes in budgetary priorities of the government entities that fund the services we provide could result in our loss of contracts or a decrease in amounts payable to us under our contracts. Our revenue is largely derived from contracts that are directly or indirectly paid or funded by government agencies. All of these contracts are subject to legislative appropriations and state budget approval. Consequently, a significant decline in government expenditures, shift of expenditures or funding away from programs that call for the types of services that we provide or change in government contracting or funding policies could cause payers to terminate their contracts with us or reduce their expenditures under those contracts, either of which could have a negative impact on our future operating results. The availability for funding under our contracts with state governments is dependent in part upon federal funding to states. Recent changes in Medicaid methodology may further reduce the availability of federal funds to states in which we provide services. Among the alternative Medicaid funding approaches that states have explored are provider assessments as tools for leveraging increased Medicaid federal matching funds. Provider assessment plans generate additional federal matching funds to the states for Medicaid reimbursement purposes, and implementation of a provider assessment plan requires approval by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services in order to qualify for federal matching funds. These plans usually take the form of a bed tax or a quality assessment fee, which were required to be imposed uniformly across classes of providers within the state, except that such taxes only applied to Medicaid health plans. However, the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, which was signed into law on February 8, 2006, or Deficit Reduction Act, requires states that desire to impose provider taxes, subject to certain transitional periods, to impose taxes on all managed care organizations, not just Medicaid managed care organizations. This uniformity requirement as it relates to taxing all managed care organizations may make states more reluctant to use provider assessments as a vehicle for raising matching funds and, thus, reduce the amount of funding that the states receive and have available. Moreover, under the Deficit Reduction Act, states may be allowed to reduce the benefits provided to certain Medicaid enrollees, which could affect the services that states contract for with us. We cannot make any assurances that these Medicaid changes will not negatively affect the funding under our contracts. Currently, many of the states in which we operate are facing budgetary shortfalls or changes in budgetary priorities. In addition, in some states eligibility requirements for social services clients have been tightened to stabilize the number of eligible clients, which reduces the size of our potential market in those states. While many of these states are dealing with budgetary concerns by shifting costs from institutional care to home and community based care such as we provide, there is no assurance that this trend will continue. We derive a significant amount of our revenues from a few payers, which puts us at risk. We provide, or manage the provision of, government sponsored social services and non-emergency transportation services to individuals and families who are eligible for government assistance pursuant to federal mandate with respect to government sponsored social services and members of the disability community, or senior citizens with respect to non-emergency transportation services under various contracts with state and local governmental entities. We generate a significant amount of our revenues from a few payers under a small number of contracts. The loss of, reduction in amounts generated by, or changes in methods or regulations governing payments for our services under these contracts could materially reduce our revenue. 14 Table of Contents Our contract with The Community Partnership of Southern Arizona, referred to as CPSA, an Arizona not-for-profit organization, requires us to provide a sufficient level of encounters to support the year-to-date payments received under the contract and provide necessary services that may exceed the associated reimbursement. Our agreement with CPSA specifies that we are to provide or arrange for behavioral health services to certain eligible populations of beneficiaries as defined in the contract. We must provide a full range of behavioral health clinical, case management, therapeutic and administrative services. We are obliged to provide services only to those clients with a demonstrated medical necessity. Our annual funding allocation amount is subject to increase when our encounters exceed the contract amount; however, such increases in the annual funding allocation amount are subject to government appropriation and may not be approved. There is no contractual limit to the number of eligible beneficiaries that may be assigned to us, or a specified limit to the level of services that may be provided to these beneficiaries if the services are deemed to be medically necessary. Therefore, we are at-risk if the costs of providing necessary services exceed the associated reimbursement. Under our CPSA contract, we are required to regularly submit service encounter data to CPSA electronically, and CPSA is obligated to monitor the service encounter value. If the service encounter value is not sufficient to support year-to-date payments made to us or if we fail to provide data sufficient to permit accurate monitoring of our service encounter value to the extent not waived, CPSA has the right to suspend payments to us or prospectively recoup funds. We recognize revenue from our CPSA contract equal to the service encounter value, which represents the value of the actual services rendered, as more fully described in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the caption “Critical accounting policies and estimates” in this report. CPSA monitors our service encounter value based upon data submitted by us electronically. If our service encounter value exceeds amounts paid to us under this contract (equal to one-twelfth of the annual contract amount on a monthly basis), we recognize revenue in excess of the annual funding allocation amount if collection is reasonably assured. If our encounter value is not sufficient to support year-to-date payments made to us or if we fail to provide data sufficient to permit accurate monitoring of our service encounter value to the extent not waived, CPSA can suspend payments to us or prospectively recoup funds. CPSA has not suspended payments to us. While we do not anticipate that CPSA will prospectively recoup funds, and while we believe that our service encounter value is sufficient to support all amounts paid to us under the contract, there can be no assurances that this will be the case. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and business. Our contracts are not only short-term in nature but can also be terminated prior to expiration, without cause and without penalty to the payers, and there can be no assurance that they will survive until the end of their stated terms or that upon their expiration these contracts will be renewed or extended. Most of our contracts contain base periods of only one year. While some of them also contain options for renewal, usually successive six month or one year terms, payers are not required to extend their contracts into these option periods. In addition, a significant number of our social services contracts not only allow the payer to terminate the contract immediately for cause (such as for our failure to meet our contract obligations) but also permit the payer to terminate the contract at any time prior to its stated expiration date. In most cases the payer may terminate the social services contract without cause, at will and without penalty to the payer, either upon the expiration of a short notice period, typically 30 days, and/or immediately, in the event federal or state appropriations supporting the programs serviced by the contract are reduced or eliminated. In the case of our non-emergency transportation services contracts, these contracts are only cancellable for performance after notice and a cure period that typically ranges from 180 days to 365 days in length. The failure of payers to renew or extend significant contracts or their early termination of significant contracts could adversely affect our financial performance. We cannot anticipate if, when or to what extent a payer might terminate its contract with us prior to its expiration or fail to renew or extend its contract with us. 15 Table of Contents Each of our contracts is subject to audit and modification by the payers with whom we contract, in their sole discretion. Our business depends on our ability to successfully perform under various government funded contracts. The payers under these contracts can review our performance under these contracts, as well as our records, accounting and general business practices at any time and may, in their discretion: • suspend or prevent us from receiving new contracts or extending existing contracts because of violations or suspected violations of procurement laws or regulations; • terminate or modify our existing contracts; • reduce the amount we are paid under our existing contracts; and/or • audit and object to our contract related fees. As a government contractor, we are subject to an increased risk of litigation and other legal actions and liabilities. As a government contractor, we are subject to an increased risk of investigation, criminal prosecution, civil fraud, whistleblower lawsuits and other legal actions and liabilities not often faced by companies that do not provide government sponsored services. The occurrence of any of these actions, regardless of the outcome, could disrupt our operations and cause us added expense and could limit our ability to obtain additional contracts in other jurisdictions. A loss of our status as a licensed provider in any jurisdiction could result in the termination of a number of our contracts, which could negatively impact our revenues. If we lost our status as a licensed provider in any jurisdiction, the contracts under which we provide services in that jurisdiction would be subject to termination. Moreover, such an event could constitute a violation of provisions of our contracts in other jurisdictions, resulting in further contract terminations. If we fail to satisfy our contractual obligations, we could be liable for damages and financial penalties and harm our ability to keep our existing contracts or obtain new contracts. Our failure to comply with our contract obligations could, in addition to providing grounds for immediate termination of the contract for cause, negatively impact our financial performance and damage our reputation, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain new contracts. Our failure to meet contractual obligations could also result in substantial actual and consequential damages. The termination of a contract for cause could, for instance, subject us to liability for excess costs incurred by a payer in obtaining similar services from another source. In addition, our contracts require us to indemnify payers for our failure to meet standards of care, and some of them contain liquidated damages provisions and financial penalties that we must pay if we breach these contracts. If we fail to estimate accurately the cost of performing certain contracts, we may incur losses on these contracts. Under our fee-for-service contracts, we receive fees based on our interactions with government sponsored clients. To earn a profit on these contracts, we must accurately estimate costs incurred in providing services. Our risk on these contracts is that our client population is not large enough to cover our fixed costs, such as rent and other overhead. Our fee-for-service contracts are not reimbursed on a cost basis and therefore, if we fail to estimate our costs accurately, we may incur losses on these contracts. Additionally, approximately 91% of our non-emergency transportation services revenue is generated under capitated contracts with the remainder generated through fee-for service and fixed cost contracts. Under our 16 Table of Contents capitated contracts, we assume the responsibility of managing the needs of a specific geographic population by contracting out transportation services to local van, cab and ambulance companies on a per ride or per mile basis. We use a “pricing model” to determine applicable contract rates, which take into account factors, such as estimated utilization, state specific data, previous experience in the state and/or with similar services, estimated volume and availability of mass transit. The amount of the fixed monthly per member per month fee is determined in the bidding process but predicated on actual historical transportation data for the subject geographic region (provided by the payer), actuarial work performed in-house as well as by third party actuarial firms and actuarial analyses provided by the payer. If the utilization of our services is more than we estimated, the contract may not be profitable. Approximately 13.0% and 12.6% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007, respectively, were derived from cost based service contracts in California for which we record revenue at one-twelfth of the annual contract amount less allowances for certain contingencies, which puts us at risk that we may be required to subsequently refund a portion of the excess funds, if any. Our cost based service contracts require us to allow for contingencies such as budgeted costs not incurred, excess cost per service over the allowable contract rate and/or an insufficient number of encounters. For the year ended December 31, 2006 and 2007, revenues from these contracts represented approximately 13% and 12.6% of our total revenues for the respective period. In cases where funds paid to us exceed the allowable costs to provide services under the contracts, we may be required to pay back the excess funds. Our results of operations will fluctuate due to seasonality. Our quarterly operating results and operating cash flows normally fluctuate as a result of seasonal variations in our business, principally due to lower client demand for our home and community based services during the holiday and summer seasons and our non-emergency transportation services during the holiday and winter seasons. Our expenses related to our Social Services operating segment do not vary significantly with these changes and, as a result, such expenses may not fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis. Conversely, due to the fixed revenue stream and variable expense base structure of our NET Services operating segment, expenses related to this segment do vary with these changes and, as a result, such expenses fluctuate on a quarterly basis. We expect quarterly fluctuations in operating results and operating cash flows to continue as a result of the seasonal demand for our home and community based services and non-emergency transportation services. As we enter new markets, we could be subject to additional seasonal variations along with any competitive response to our entry by other social services and transportation managers or providers. While we obtain some of our business through responses to government requests for proposals, we may not be awarded contracts through this process in the future, and contracts we are awarded may not be profitable. We obtain, and will continue to seek to obtain, a significant portion of our business from state or local government entities. To obtain business from government entities, we are often required to respond to requests for proposals, or RFPs. To propose effectively, we must accurately estimate our cost structure for servicing a proposed contract, the time required to establish operations and the terms of the proposals submitted by competitors. We must also assemble and submit a large volume of information within rigid and often short timetables. Our ability to respond successfully to RFPs will greatly impact our business. We may not be awarded contracts through the RFP process, and our proposals may not result in profitable contracts. If we fail to establish and maintain important relationships with officials of government entities and agencies, we may not be able to successfully procure or retain government-sponsored contracts, which could negatively impact our revenues. To facilitate our ability to procure or retain government-sponsored contracts, we rely in part on establishing and maintaining relationships with officials of various government entities and agencies. These relationships 17 Table of Contents enable us to provide informal input and advice to the government entities and agencies prior to the development of an RFP or program for privatization of social services and enhance our chances of procuring contracts with these payers. The effectiveness of our relationships may be reduced or eliminated with changes in the personnel holding various government offices or staff positions. We also may lose key personnel who have these relationships. We may be unable to successfully manage our relationships with government entities and agencies and with elected officials and appointees. Any failure to establish, maintain or manage relationships with government and agency personnel may hinder our ability to procure or retain government-sponsored contracts. The federal government may refuse to grant consents and/or waivers necessary to permit for-profit entities to perform certain elements of government programs. Under current law, in order to privatize certain functions of government programs, the federal government must grant a consent and/or waiver to the petitioning state or local agency. If the federal government does not grant a necessary consent or waiver or withdraw approval of any granted waiver, the state or local agency will be unable to contract with a for-profit entity, such as us, to provide service. Failure by state or local agencies to obtain consents and/or waivers could adversely affect our continued business and future growth. Our business could be adversely affected by future legislative changes that hinder or reverse the privatization of social services. The market for our services depends largely on federal, state and local legislative programs. These programs can be modified or amended at any time. Moreover, part of our growth strategy includes aggressively pursuing opportunities created by the federal, state and local initiatives to privatize the delivery of social services. However, there are opponents to the privatization of social services and, as a result, future privatization of social services is uncertain. If additional privatization initiatives are not proposed or enacted, or if previously enacted privatization initiatives are challenged, repealed or invalidated, our growth could be adversely impacted. Our strategic relationships with certain not-for-profit and tax exempt entities are subject to tax and other risks. Since some government agencies in certain of our markets prefer or require contracts for privatized social services to be administered through not-for-profit organizations, we rely on our long-term relationships with not-for-profit organizations to provide services to these government agencies. We currently maintain strategic relationships with 17 not-for-profit social services organizations with which we have management contracts of varying lengths, 14 of which are federally tax exempt organizations. Our strategic relationships with tax exempt not-for-profit organizations are similar to those in the hospital management industry where tax exempt or faith based not-for-profit hospitals are managed by for profit companies. Federal tax law requires that the boards of directors of not-for-profit tax exempt organizations be independent. The boards of directors of the tax exempt not-for-profit organizations for which we provide management services have a majority of independent members. The board members are predominately selected from independent members of the local community in which the not-for-profit entity operates. Decisions regarding our business relationships with these not-for-profit entities are made by their independent board members including approving the management fees we charge to manage their organizations and any discretionary bonuses. Federal tax law also requires that the management fees we charge the not-for-profit entities we manage be fixed and at fair market rates. Typically a fairness opinion is obtained by the not-for-profit entities we manage from an independent third party valuation consultant that substantiates the fair market rates. If the Internal Revenue Service determined that any tax exempt organization was paying more than market rates for services performed by us, the managed entity could lose its tax exempt status and owe back taxes and penalties. 18 Table of Contents Generally, under state law, not-for-profit entities may pay no more than reasonable compensation for services rendered. If the compensation paid to us by these not-for-profit entities is deemed unreasonable, then the state could take action against the not-for-profit entity which could adversely affect us. Government unions may oppose privatizing government programs to outside vendors such as us, which could limit our market opportunities. Our success depends in part on our ability to win contracts to administer and manage programs traditionally administered by government employees. Many government employees, however, belong to labor unions with considerable financial resources and lobbying networks. These unions could apply political pressure on legislators and other officials seeking to privatize government programs. Union opposition could result in our losing government contracts or being precluded from providing services under government contracts. Inaccurate, misleading or negative media coverage could damage our reputation and harm our ability to procure government sponsored contracts. The media sometimes provides news coverage about our contracts and the services we provide to clients. This media coverage, if negative, could influence government officials to slow the pace of privatizing government services. Moreover, inaccurate, misleading or negative media coverage about us could harm our reputation and, accordingly, our ability to obtain government sponsored contracts. We may incur costs before receiving related revenues, which could result in cash shortfalls. When we are awarded a contract to provide services, we may incur expenses before we receive any contract payments. These expenses include leasing office space, purchasing office equipment and hiring personnel. As a result, in certain large contracts where the government does not fund program start-up costs, we may be required to invest significant sums of money before receiving related contract payments. In addition, payments due to us from payers may be delayed due to billing cycles or as a result of failures to approve government budgets in a timely manner. Moreover, any resulting cash shortfall could be exacerbated if we fail to either invoice the payer or to collect our fee in a timely manner. Our business is subject to risks of litigation. We are in the human and non-emergency transportation services businesses which are subject to lawsuits and claims. A substantial award could have a material adverse impact on our operations and cash flow and could adversely impact our ability to continue to purchase appropriate liability insurance. We can be subject to claims for negligence or intentional misconduct (in addition to professional liability type claims) by an employee, including but not limited to, claims arising out of accidents involving vehicle collisions, employees driving to or from interactions with clients or assault and battery. We are also subject to claims alleging we did not properly treat an individual or failed to properly diagnose and/or care for a client. We can be subject to employee related claims such as wrongful discharge or discrimination or a violation of equal employment law and permitting issues. While we are insured for these types of claims, damages exceeding our insurance limits or outside our insurance coverage, such as a claim for fraud, could adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition. Furthermore, we can be subject to miscellaneous errors and omissions liability relative to the various management agreements we have with the not-for-profit entities we manage. In the event of a claim and depending on, among other things, the circumstances, allegations, and size of the management contract, we could be subject to damages that could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our use of a reinsurance program to cover certain claims for losses suffered and costs or expenses incurred could negatively impact our business. We are self-insured with regard to a substantial portion of our general liability, professional liability, workers’ compensation insurance and automobile liability. We also reinsure the general liability, professional 19 Table of Contents liability, workers’ compensation insurance, and automobile liability of certain designated entities affiliated with us or independent third parties under reinsurance programs through our two wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiaries. In the event that actual reinsured losses increase unexpectedly or exceed actuarially determined estimated reinsured losses under the program, the aggregate of such losses could materially increase our liability and adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity, cash flows and results of operations. In addition, as the availability to us of certain traditional insurance coverage diminishes or increases in cost, we will continue to evaluate the levels and types of insurance we include in our self-insurance program. Any increase to this program increases our risk exposure and therefore increases the risk of a possible material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, cash flows and results of operations. We could be subject to significant state regulation and potential sanctions if our health care benefits program is deemed to be a multiple employer welfare arrangement. For the purpose of managing and providing employee healthcare benefits we deem ourselves to be a single employer under Section 3(5) of ERISA with regard to our own employees as well as the employees of certain of our managed entities covered by our healthcare benefit program to whom we offered healthcare benefits through June 2007. The Department of Labor or individual states could disagree with our interpretation and consider our program to be a multiple employer welfare arrangement, or MEWA, and, as such, subject to regulation by state insurance commissions. If involuntarily deemed a MEWA, our cost to manage the state-by-state regulatory environment for the self-funded portion of our health insurance program would be prohibitive and we could, as a result, elect to maintain our self-funded health insurance plan only for our owned entities, forcing the three managed entities currently included in our self-funded plan to negotiate and purchase their own health benefits. In addition, if our health care benefits program is determined to be a MEWA, civil and/or criminal sanctions are possible. We face substantial competition in attracting and retaining experienced professionals, particularly social service professionals with respect to our social services and intellectual technology professionals with respect to our non-emergency transportation services, and we may be unable to grow our business if we cannot attract and retain qualified employees. Our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified and experienced social services professionals who possess the skills and experience necessary to deliver high quality services to our clients. Our objective of providing the highest quality of service to our clients is strongly considered when we evaluate education, experience and qualifications of potential candidates for employment as direct care and administrative staff. To that end, we attempt to hire professionals who have attained a bachelor’s degree, master’s degree or higher level of education and certification or licensure as direct care social services providers and administrators. These employees are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. We must quickly hire project leaders and case management personnel after a contract is awarded to us. Contract provisions and client needs determine the number, education and experience levels of social services professionals we hire. We continually evaluate client census, case loads and client eligibility to determine our staffing needs under each contract. Our performance in our non-emergency transportation services business largely depends on the talents and efforts of our highly skilled intellectual technology professionals. Competition for skilled intellectual technology professionals can be intense. Our success depends on our ability to recruit, retain and motivate these individuals. Our ability to attract and retain employees with the requisite experience and skills depends on several factors including, but not limited to, our ability to offer competitive wages, benefits and professional growth opportunities. Some of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater financial resources and name recognition than we do. The inability to attract and retain experienced personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. 20 Table of Contents Our success depends on our ability to manage growing and changing operations. Since 1996, our business has grown significantly in size and complexity. This growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, significant demands on our management, systems, internal controls and financial and physical resources. In addition, we expect that we will need to further develop our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems to accommodate future growth. This could require us to incur expenses for hiring additional qualified personnel, retaining professionals to assist in developing the appropriate control systems and expanding our information technology infrastructure. The nature of our business is such that qualified management personnel can be difficult to find. Our inability to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Any acquisition that we undertake could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and harm our operating results. We anticipate that we will continue making strategic acquisitions as part of our growth strategy. We have made a number of acquisitions since our inception, including twenty since our initial public offering in August 2003. The success of these and other acquisitions depends in part on our ability to integrate acquired companies into our business operations. There can be no assurance that the companies acquired will continue to generate income at the same historical levels on which we based our acquisition decisions, that we will be able to maintain or renew the acquired companies’ contracts, that we will be able to realize operating and economic efficiencies upon integration of acquired companies, or that the acquisitions will not adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We continually review opportunities to acquire other businesses that would complement our current services, expand our markets or otherwise offer growth opportunities. In connection with our acquisition strategy, we could issue stock that would dilute existing stockholders’ percentage ownership and/or we could incur or assume substantial debt or assume contingent liabilities. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • problems assimilating the purchased operations; • unanticipated costs and legal or financial liabilities associated with an acquisition; • diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with customers; • entering markets in which we have limited or no experience; • potential loss of key employees of purchased organizations; • the incurrence of excessive leverage in financing an acquisition; • failure to maintain and renew contracts; • unanticipated operating, accounting or management difficulties in connection with an acquisition; and • dilution to our earnings per share. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming problems encountered in connection with any acquisition and our inability to do so could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business. Changes in the accounting method for business combinations may have an adverse impact on our reported or future financial results. Currently and for the years ended December 31, 2007 and prior, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard 141 “Business Combinations”, or SFAS 141, all acquisition-related costs such as attorney’s fees and accountant’s fees, as well as contingent consideration to the seller, are capitalized as part of the purchase price. 21 Table of Contents In December 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141 (revised 2007), “Business Combinations”, or SFAS 141R, which requires an acquirer to do the following: expense acquisition related costs as incurred; record contingent consideration at fair value at the acquisition date with subsequent changes in fair value to be recognized in the income statement; and recognize any adjustments to the purchase price allocation as a period cost in the income statement. SFAS 141R applies prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008. Earlier application is prohibited. At the date of adoption, SFAS 141R may have a material impact on our results of operations and our financial position due to our acquisition strategy. Our success depends on our ability to compete effectively in the marketplace. In our social services business, we compete for clients and for contracts with a variety of organizations that offer similar services. Most of our competition consists of local social services organizations that compete with us for local contracts such as United Way supported agencies and faith-based agencies such as Catholic Social Services, Jewish Family and Children’s Services and the Salvation Army. Other competitors include local not-for-profit organizations and community based organizations. Historically, these types of organizations have been favored in our industry as incumbent providers of services to government entities. We also compete with larger companies, such as Res-Care, Inc., which provides support services, training and educational programs predominantly to Medicaid eligible beneficiaries. National Mentor, Inc. is the country’s largest provider of foster care services and competes with us in existing markets for foster care services. In addition, many institutional providers offer some type of community based care including such organizations as Cornell Companies, Inc., Psychiatric Solutions, Inc. and The Devereaux Foundation. Some of these companies have greater financial, technical, political, marketing, name recognition and other resources and a larger number of clients and/or payers than we do. In addition, some of these companies offer more services than we do. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, competition from new entrants into the markets in which we operate our social services business. Increased competition may result in pricing pressures, loss of or failure to gain market share or loss of clients or payers, any of which could harm our business. We compete with a variety of organizations that provide similar non-emergency transportation services to Medicaid eligible beneficiaries in local markets such as American Medical Response, Coordinated Transportation Solutions, Inc., First Transit, Inc., Medical Transportation Management Inc., MV Transportation, Inc., and Southeast Trans. Our competitors largely compete for smaller-scale contract opportunities that encompass smaller geographic areas. For example, most of our competitors seek to win contracts for specific counties, whereas we seek to win contracts for the entire state. If these competitors begin to compete on a larger scale basis, it could result in pricing pressures, loss of or failure to gain market share or loss of clients or payers, any of which could harm our business. Our business is subject to state licensing regulations and other regulatory provisions, including regulatory provisions governing surveys, audits, anti-kickbacks, self-referrals, false claims and The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, and changes to or violations of these regulations could negatively impact our revenues. In many of the locations where we operate, we are required by state law to obtain and maintain licenses. The applicable state and local licensing requirements govern the services we provide, the credentials of staff, record keeping, treatment planning, client monitoring and supervision of staff. The failure to maintain these licenses or the loss of a license could have a material adverse impact on our business and could prevent us from providing services to clients in a given jurisdiction. Most of our contracts are subject to surveys or audit by our payers. We are also subject to regulations that restrict our ability to contract directly with a government agency in certain situations. Such restrictions could affect our ability to contract with certain payers. In addition, we are or may be subject to anti-kickback, self-referral and false claim laws. Violations of these laws may result in significant penalties, including repayment of any amounts alleged to be overpayments or in violation of such laws, criminal 22 Table of Contents fines, civil money penalties, damages, imprisonment, a ban from participation in federally funded healthcare programs and/or bans from obtaining government contracts. Such fines and other penalties could negatively impact our business by decreasing profits due to repayment of overpayments or from the imposition of fines and damages, damaging our reputation and diverting our management resources. Due to our access, use or disclosure of health information relating to individuals, we are subject to the privacy mandates of HIPAA. HIPAA mandates, among other things, the adoption of standards to enhance the efficiency and simplify the administration of the nation’s healthcare system. HIPAA requires the United States Department of Health and Human Services, or DHHS, to adopt standards for electronic transactions and code sets for basic healthcare transactions such as payment, eligibility and remittance advices, or “transaction standards,” privacy of individually identifiable health information, or “privacy standards,” security of individually identifiable health information, or “security standards,” electronic signatures, as well as unique identifiers for providers, employers, health plans and individuals and enforcement. Final regulations have been issued by DHHS for the privacy standards, and some of the transaction standards and security standards. As a healthcare provider, we are required to comply in our operations with these standards as applicable and are subject to significant civil and criminal penalties for failure to do so. In addition, in connection with providing services to customers that also are healthcare providers, we are required to provide satisfactory written assurances to those customers that we will provide those services in accordance with the privacy standards and security standards. HIPAA has and will require significant and costly changes for our company and others in the healthcare industry. Compliance with the privacy standards became mandatory in April 2003, compliance with the transaction standards became mandatory in October 2003 (although full implementation was delayed with respect to the Medicare program until October 2005), and compliance with the security standards became mandatory in April 2005. In February 2006, DHHS published its Final Rule on Enforcement of the HIPAA Administrative Simplification provisions, including the transaction standards, the security standards and the privacy rule. This enforcement rule addresses, among other issues, DHHS’s policies for determining violations and calculating civil money penalties, how DHHS will address the statutory limitations on the imposition of civil monetary penalties, and various procedural issues. We have appointed an internal committee to maintain our privacy and security policies regarding client information in compliance with HIPAA. This committee is responsible for training our employees, including our regional and local managers and staff, to comply with HIPAA and monitoring compliance with the policy. However, like other businesses subject to HIPAA regulations, we cannot fully predict the total financial or other impact of these regulations on us. The costs associated with our ongoing compliance could be substantial, which could negatively impact our profitability. Our international operations expose us to various risks, any number of which could harm our business. As a result of our acquisition of WCG on August 1, 2007, we now have operations in Canada. We are subject to the risks inherent in conducting business across national boundaries, any one of which could adversely impact our business. In addition to currency fluctuations, these risks include, among other things: • economic downturns; • changes in or interpretations of local law, governmental policy or regulation; • restrictions on the transfer of funds into or out of the country; • varying tax systems; • delays from doing business with governmental agencies; • nationalization of foreign assets; and • government protectionism. 23 Table of Contents We intend to continue to evaluate opportunities to establish new operations in Canada. One or more of the foregoing factors could impair our current or future operations and, as a result, harm our overall business. We operate in multiple tax jurisdictions and we are taxable in most of them and face the risk of double taxation if one jurisdiction does not acquiesce to the tax claims of another jurisdiction. We currently operate in the United States and Canada and are subject to income taxes in those countries and the specific states and/or provinces where we operate. In the event one taxing jurisdiction disagrees with another taxing jurisdiction, we could experience temporary or permanent double taxation and increased professional fees to resolve taxation matters. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 