ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS - -------- ------------ An investment in the Company's common stock is subject to risks inherent to the Company's business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties summarized below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference herein this report. While management takes a proactive approach to manage risk, other additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or that it may deem to be immaterial may also impair the Company's business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company's consolidated financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the Company's common stock could be negatively impacted and have an adverse effect on an investor's holdings. Changes in Interest Rates May Have an Adverse Effect on Profitability - --------------------------------------------------------------------- The Company's earnings and cash flows, like most financial institutions, are significantly dependent on its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest expense paid on interest bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company's control, including general economic conditions, competition and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest the Company receives on its loans and investment securities and pays on its deposits and borrowings, but could also affect (i) the Company's ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair or economic value of the Company's financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of the Company's mortgage-backed securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster pace than the interest rates received on loans and investment securities, the Page 11 Company's net interest income, and therefore its earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely impacted if interest rates received on loans and investment securities fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to mitigate the potential effects that interest rate changes may have on the Company's results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, or prolonged change in market interest rates could have a materially adverse impact on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company is Subject to Lending Risk - -------------------------------------- There are inherent risks associated with the Company's lending activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in economic conditions in the markets where the Company operates as well as those across the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the United States. Increases in interest rates and/or weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or could negatively affect the value of the collateral securing those loans. The Company is also subject to various laws and regulations that affect its lending activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject the Company to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment of significant civil money penalties assessed against the Company. The Company's Allowance for Possible Loan Losses May Be Insufficient - -------------------------------------------------------------------- The Company maintains an allowance for possible loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for possible loan losses charged to expense, that represents management's best estimate of probable losses within the existing loan portfolio. In management's judgment, the allowance is necessary to reserve for estimated losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management's continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions; and unidentified losses that may be inherent within the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires the Company to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Although the Company believes it has in place underwriting standards to manage normal lending risks, changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside the Company's control, may require an increase in the allowance for possible loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies review the Company's allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different from those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for possible loan losses, the Company will need to initiate additional provisions to increase the allowance. Any increases in the allowance for possible loan losses will result in a decrease to net income and possibly capital, and may have a materially adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company is Subject to Environmental Liability Risk Associated with Lending - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Activities - ---------- The Company does not anticipate that compliance with environmental laws and regulations will have any material effect on capital, expenditures, earnings, or on its competitive position. However, environmentally related hazards have become a source of high risk and potentially unlimited liability for financial institutions. Environmentally contaminated properties owned by an institution's borrowers may result in a drastic reduction in the value of the collateral securing the institution's loans to such borrowers, and liability to the institution for clean-up costs if it forecloses on the contaminated property. To minimize the risk, the Company may require an environmental examination of and report with respect to the property of any borrower or prospective borrower if circumstances affecting the property indicate a potential for contamination, taking into consideration a potential loss to the institution in relation to the borrower. The Company is not aware of any borrower who is currently subject to any environmental investigation or clean-up proceeding that is likely to have a materially adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company. There are several federal and state statutes that regulate obligations and liabilities of financial institutions pertaining to environmental issues. In addition to the potential for attachment of liability resulting from its own actions, the Company may be held liable under certain circumstances for the actions of its borrowers, or third parties, Page 12 when such actions result in environmental problems on properties that collateralize loans held by the Company. Further, the liability has the potential to far exceed the original amount of the loan issued by the Company. The Company Operates in a Highly Competitive Market - --------------------------------------------------- The financial services industry is extremely competitive and could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. The Company faces substantial competition within its service area where such competitors not only include larger banks and bank holding companies, but also savings banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, money market and other mutual funds, mortgage companies, leasing companies, insurance companies, finance companies and other financial service companies. Such competitors offer products and services similar to those offered by the Company, on competitive terms. Many competitors have substantially greater resources than the Company, or they operate under less stringent regulatory environments. The differences in resources and regulations may make it harder for the Company to compete profitably. In addition there is always a risk that aggressive competition could result in the Company controlling a smaller share of the market. A decline in market share could lead to a decline in net income which could potentially have a negative impact on stockholder value. The Company's Ability to Pay Dividends Depends Primarily on Dividends from it - ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- Banking Subsidiary - ------------------ The Company is a bank holding company and its operations are conducted by its subsidiary. Its ability to pay dividends depends on its receipt of dividends from its subsidiary. Dividend payments from its banking subsidiary are subject to legal and regulatory limitations, generally based on net profits and retained earnings, imposed by the various banking regulatory agencies. The ability of its subsidiary to pay dividends is also subject to its profitability, financial condition, capital expenditures and other cash flow requirements. There is no assurance that its subsidiary will be able to pay dividends in the future or that the Company will generate adequate cash flow to pay dividends in the future. The Company's failure to pay dividends on its common stock could have a materially adverse effect on the market price of its common stock. The Company's Stock Price and Trading Volume Can Be Volatile - ------------------------------------------------------------ The trading volume of the Company's common stock, which is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, is less than that of other larger and older financial service companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of the Company's common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which the Company has no control. Given the lower trading volume of the Company's common stock, significant sales of the Company's common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause the Company's stock price to fall. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause a change in the Company's stock price, regardless of its operating results. Extensive Regulation and Supervision - ------------------------------------ The Company is subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. These regulations affect almost every aspect of the Company's existence. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject the Company to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products its may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a materially adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS - -------- ------------------------- None. Page 13 