Item 1A Risk Factors under the heading “Our international operations expose us to various risks, any number of which could harm our business” for a discussion of risks related to our foreign operations. Description of our business Social Services Services offered. We provide home and community based services, foster care and provider management services, directly and through entities we manage. The following describes such services: Home and community based counseling • Home based and intensive home based counseling. Our home based counselors are trained professionals or para-professionals providing counseling services in the client’s own home. These services average five hours per client per week and can include individual, group or family sessions. Topics are prescriptive to each client and can include family dynamics, peer relationships, anger management, substance abuse prevention, conflict resolution, parent effectiveness training and misdemeanant private probation supervision. We also provide intensive home based counseling, which consists of up to 20 or more hours per client per week. Our intensive home based counselors are masters or Ph.D. level professional therapists or counselors. Intensive home based counseling is designed for clients struggling to cope with everyday situations. Our counselors are qualified to assist with marital and family issues, depression, drug or alcohol abuse, domestic violence, hyperactivity, criminal or anti-social behavior, sexual misbehavior, school expulsion or chronic truancy and other disruptive behaviors. In the absence of this type of counseling, many of these clients would be considered for 24-hour institutional care or incarceration. • Substance abuse treatment services. Our substance abuse treatment counselors provide services in the office, home and counseling centers designed especially for clients with drug or alcohol abuse problems. Our counselors use peer contracts, treatment group process and a commitment to sobriety as treatment methods. Our professional counseling, peer counseling and group and family sessions are designed to introduce clients dependent upon drugs or alcohol to a sober lifestyle. • School support services. Our professional counselors are assigned to and stationed in public schools to assist in dealing with problematic and at-risk students. Our counselors provide support services such as teacher training, individual and group counseling, logical consequence training, anger management training, gang awareness and drug and alcohol abuse prevention techniques. In addition, we provide in-home educational tutoring in numerous markets where we contract with individual school districts to assist students who need assistance in learning. • Correctional services. We provide misdemeanant private probation supervision services, including monitoring and supervision of those sentenced to probation, rehabilitative services, and collection and disbursement of court-ordered fines, fees and restitution. • Workforce development. We assist individuals to achieve their greatest potential to obtain and retain meaningful employment through services that include vocational evaluation, job placement, skills training, and employment support. 3 Table of Contents Foster care • Foster care. We recruit and train foster parents and license family foster homes to provide 24-hour care to children who have been removed from their homes due to physical or emotional abuse, abandonment, or the lack of appropriate living situations. We place children individually in a licensed home. Each child is provided 24-hour care and supervision by trained foster parents. Our professional staff and counselors match and supervise the child and foster family. We also provide tutoring and other services to the child and foster family. • Therapeutic foster care. We provide therapeutic foster care services. This is a 24-hour care service designed for children exhibiting serious emotional problems who may otherwise require institutional treatment. We recruit, license and train professional foster parents to care for foster children for up to a year of therapeutic intervention. Social, psychological and psychiatric services are provided on a prescriptive basis to each child and therapeutic foster care family by a team of licensed, professional staff. Not-for-profit managed services • Administrative support, information technology and accounting and payroll services. In most cases we provide and manage the back office and administrative functions such as accounting, cash management, billing and collections, human resources and quality management. We assist in the development of policies and procedures and supervise the day to day operations. In some of our contracts we also provide the information technology support for hardware, networking and software. We also provide payroll management services for our managed entities along with managing the recruiting and retention of staff. In all cases, we report directly to the not-for-profit organization’s board of directors which may elect to engage us to provide some or all of these services. • Intake, assessment and referral services. We contract on behalf of our managed entities with governments to receive and handle telephone inquiries regarding need and eligibility for government sponsored social services, to arrange for face-to-face interviews and to conduct benefit eligibility reviews. If indicated from the telephone inquiry and/or interviews with the client, we perform an evaluation of need, which may include a psychiatric assessment, psycho-social assessment, a social history and other diagnostic tools. Once eligibility is determined, the client is referred to an appropriate social services provider. • Monitoring services. Monitoring services include face-to-face and telephone interactions in which we provide guidance and assistance to clients. This typically includes a strength assessment, a referral to appropriate resources, a home visit and a limited amount of consultation. This service is designed for clients that are not seriously impaired but need assistance in accessing government benefits and services and learning the applicable benefit system. • Case management. In providing case management services, we supervise all aspects of an eligible client’s case and assure that the client receives the appropriate care, treatment and resources. As a case manager we are a client’s advocate, arranging for services and following up to ensure that the client receives the necessary and appropriate care and services, and further, that the client complies with the prescribed intervention plan. We maintain the client’s records required by the government unit sponsoring the care. In providing case management, our client contact may be in the office, at home, on the telephone or any combination thereof. Revenue and payers. Substantially all of our revenue related to our Social Services operating segment is derived from contracts with state or local government agencies, government intermediaries or the not-for-profit social services organizations we manage. A majority of our contracts are negotiated fee-for-service arrangements with payers. Home and community based services are generally payable by the hour depending on the type and intensity of the service. Foster care 4 Table of Contents services are generally payable pursuant to a fixed monthly fee. Approximately 67.8%, 70.4% and 70.6% of our Social Services operating segment revenue for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009 was related to fee-for-service arrangements. A significant number of our fee-for-service contracts allow the payer to terminate the contract immediately for cause (such as for our failure to meet our contract obligations). Additionally, these contracts permit the payer to terminate the contract at any time prior to its stated expiration date without cause, at will and without penalty to the payer, either upon the expiration of a short notice period, typically 30 days, and/or immediately, in the event federal or state appropriations supporting the programs serviced by the contract are reduced or eliminated. We generate a significant portion of our revenue from a few payers. Under our contract with the State of Virginia’s Department of Medical Assistance Services, we derived approximately 10.1% and 12.6% of our social services revenue for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009, respectively. Revenues from our cost based service contracts are generally recorded based on a combination of direct costs, indirect overhead allocations, and stated contractual margins on those incurred costs. These revenues are compared to annual contract budget limits and, depending on reporting requirements, allowances may be recorded for certain contingencies such as projected costs not incurred, excess cost per service over the allowable contract rate and/or insufficient encounters. This policy results in recognizing revenue from these contracts based on allowable costs incurred. The annual contract amount is based on projected costs to provide services under the contracts with adjustments for changes in the total contract amount. Annually, we submit projected costs for the coming year which assist the contracting payers in establishing the annual contract amount to be paid for services provided under the contracts. After the contracting payers’ year end, we submit cost reports which are used by the contracting payers to determine the amount, if any, by which funds paid to us for services provided under the contracts were greater than the allowable costs to provide these services. Completion of this review process may range from one month to several years from the date we submit the cost report. In cases where funds paid to us exceed the allowable costs to provide services under contract, we may be required to pay back the excess funds. Our cost reports are routinely audited by our contracted payers on an annual basis. We periodically review our provisional billing rates and allocation of costs and provide for estimated adjustments from the contracting payers. We believe that adequate provisions have been made in our consolidated financial statements for any adjustments that might result from the outcome of any cost report audits. Differences between the amounts provided and the settlement amounts are recorded in our consolidated statement of operations in the year of settlement. Cost based service contracts represented approximately 17.8%, 16.4% and 18.5% of our Social Services operating segment revenue for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009. We provide services under one annual block purchase contract in Arizona with The Community Partnership of Southern Arizona. We are required to provide or arrange for the behavioral health services to eligible populations of beneficiaries as defined in the contract. We must provide a complete range of behavioral health clinical, case management, therapeutic and administrative services. We are obliged to provide services only to those clients with a demonstrated medical necessity. There is no contractual limit to the number of eligible beneficiaries that may be assigned to us, or a limit to the level of services that must be provided to these beneficiaries if the services are deemed to be medically necessary. Therefore, we are at-risk if the costs of providing necessary services exceed the associated reimbursement. The terms of the contract typically are reviewed prospectively and amended as necessary to ensure adequate funding of our service offerings under the contract; however, no assurances can be made that such funding will adequately cover the costs of services previously provided. The annual block purchase contract represented 6.7% of our Social Services operating segment revenue for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009. Due to the nature of our business and the requirement or desire by certain payers to contract with not-for-profit social services organizations, we sometimes enter into management contracts with not-for-profit organizations for the purpose of developing strategic relationships or providing administrative, program and management services. These organizations contract directly or indirectly with state government agencies to supply a variety of community 5 Table of Contents based mental health and foster care services to children and adults. Typically these organizations are separately incorporated and organized with their own board of directors. Our management fees under these contracts are either based upon a percentage of the managed entities’ revenues or a predetermined fee. Management fees earned pursuant to our management contracts with these organizations represented approximately 7.5%, 6.5% and 4.2% of our Social Services operating segment revenue for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009. Seasonality. Our quarterly operating results and operating cash flows normally fluctuate as a result of seasonal variations in our Social Services operating segment, principally due to lower client demand for our home and community based services during the holiday and summer seasons. As we have grown our home and community based services business, our exposure to seasonal variations has grown and will continue to grow, particularly with respect to our school based services, educational services and tutoring services. We experience lower home and community based services revenue when school is not in session. Our expenses, however, do not vary significantly with these changes and, as a result, such expenses may not fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis. As a result, our Social Services operating segment experiences lower operating margins during the holiday and summer seasons. We expect quarterly fluctuations in operating results and operating cash flows to continue as a result of the uneven seasonal demand for our home and community based services. Moreover, as we enter new markets, we could be subject to additional seasonal variations along with any competitive response to our entry by other social services providers. Competition. The social services industry is a highly fragmented industry. We compete for clients with a variety of organizations that offer similar services. Most of our competition consists of local social services organizations that compete with us for local contracts, such as United Way supported agencies and faith-based agencies such as Catholic Social Services, Jewish Family and Children’s Services and the Salvation Army. Other competitors include local, not-for-profit organizations and community based organizations. Historically, these types of organizations have been favored in our industry as incumbent providers of services to government entities. On a national level, there are very few organizations that compete for local, county and state contracts to provide the types of services we offer. We also compete with larger companies, such as Res-Care, Inc., which provides support services, training and educational programs predominantly to Medicaid eligible beneficiaries. National Mentor, Inc. is the country’s largest provider of foster care services and competes with us in certain markets for foster care services. Many institutional providers offer some type of community based care including such organizations as Cornell Companies, Inc., Psychiatric Solutions, Inc. and The Devereaux Foundation. While we believe that we compete on the basis of price and quality, many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, political and marketing resources, name recognition, and a larger number of clients and payers than we do. In addition, some of these organizations offer more services than we do. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, competition from new entrants into our markets. Increased competition may result in pricing pressures, loss of or failure to gain market share or loss of clients or payers, any of which could harm our business. Sales and marketing. Substantially all of our marketing is performed at the local and regional level. Through our local and regional managers, we have successfully developed and maintained extensive relationships with various payers. These relationships allow us to develop leads on new business, cross-sell our other services to existing payers and negotiate payer contracts. A significant portion of our business is procured in this manner. We also seek to market our services to payers in geographical areas contiguous to existing markets and in which we believe our reputation as a low cost quality service provider will enhance our ability to compete for and win business. From time to time we respond to requests for proposals, or RFPs. Additionally, we subscribe to a service that keeps us informed of and tracks on a national basis RFPs for privatization of social services. We selectively choose the RFPs to which we respond based upon whether our reputation enhances our ability to compete or if the RFP presents a unique opportunity to develop a new service offering. NET Services Services offered. As a result of our acquisition of Charter LCI Corporation, including its subsidiaries, collectively referred to as LogistiCare, we are the preferred provider of non-emergency transportation management 6 Table of Contents servicing clients under approximately 65 contracts in 39 states. We provide responsive and innovative solutions for a client’s transportation needs through centralized call processing, development and management of transportation networks and through the use of proprietary technologies. Our current payers include state Medicaid programs, local government agencies, hospital systems and HMO’s providing Medicare, Medicaid and commercial products. We provide services to a wide variety of people with varying needs. Our clients are Medicaid recipients, members of the disability community, and senior citizens. Non-emergency transportation services are provided to individuals with limited mobility, people with limited means of transportation, and people with disabilities that prevent them from using conventional methods of transportation. The majority of our programs provide Medicaid non-emergency transportation services to eligible beneficiaries. Utilization rates and vehicle choice differ depending on the individual’s condition, the location of the individual relative to the final destination, and other available transportation systems. We also provide services to special needs students who are physically fragile, or mentally ill children who cannot commute to school via traditional mainstream transportation and/or need to be taken out of school for therapy. As a transportation logistics manager, we match transportation services with client needs. We utilize a proprietary information technology platform and operational processes to manage the transportation services that are outsourced to a network of local third party transportation providers. We typically do not provide direct transportation to end users. Rather, to fulfill requests under our contracts, we subcontract with local transportation providers, such as van, cab and ambulance companies. We receive transportation requests from clients or their representatives and arrange for the least costly and most effective transportation. Transportation requests are received at one of 11 regional call centers and appropriate local transportation providers are assigned. These decisions are aided by our proprietary logistics software. After we assign an appropriate transportation provider to our client we carefully monitor the transportation service provided to ensure that the client transport was completed before we pay the transportation vendor. We do not normally pay for services if the client does not show up for transport or if the transport is not completed. A majority of the requests for transportation are standing orders, mostly for patients who require frequent, recurring services such as dialysis treatment. Other transportation requests are required to be scheduled with 48 to 72 hour advance notice, with a small number of requests scheduled on the same day. We subcontract with larger transportation companies as well as a number of diverse, small, local companies in order to provide superior coverage in both urban and rural areas. In each region that we serve, we actively manage a network of local transportation providers, screening and credentialing providers, providing orientations, and monitoring performance on an ongoing basis through field audits and other reviews. Each of our state operations uses multiple transportation providers in our network, with an average provider fleet size of less than 10 vehicles. To ensure compliance and safety quality standards for all third party transportation providers, we perform a credentialing process on all transportation providers who must meet minimum standards set by us and our payers. These standards include: (i) successful completion of criminal and driving record checks, drug testing and all required training; (ii) ability to receive trip reservations electronically; (iii) provider owned or leased vehicles that are equipped with a two-way communication system and safety equipment; and (iv) insurance coverage that complies with federal and/or state statutory requirements. We contract with third party transportation providers for trips on a per completed trip basis. Our subcontracts do not contain volume guarantees and can be cancelled with or without cause given 45 days notice. Revenue and payers. We contract primarily with state and local government entities, HMO’s and commercial insurers. Approximately 89% of our non-emergency transportation services revenue is generated under capitated contracts where we assume the responsibility of meeting the transportation needs of a specific geographic population. These contracts are generally structured with per member per month rates and have renegotiation or price increase triggers. Typical payer contracts cover three years with a two-year renewal option and range in size from approximately $1 million to $70 million annually. Approximately 6% of our non-emergency transportation services revenue is derived from fee-for-service and fixed cost contracts. Our special needs school transportation contracts are with local governments and are paid on a per trip basis or per bus per day basis. 7 Table of Contents We generate a significant portion of our revenue from a few payers. Under our contract with the State of Virginia’s Department of Medical Assistance Services we derived approximately 18% and 15% of our non-emergency transportation services revenue for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009, respectively. Our next four largest payers comprised approximately 35% and 31% of our non-emergency transportation services revenue for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009, respectively. Our contracted per member per month fee is predicated on actual historical transportation data for the subject geographic region provided by our payers, actuarial analysis performed in-house as well as by third party actuarial firms and actuarial analyses provided by our payers. Typically our government contracts are only cancellable for performance after notice and a cure period that ranges from 180 days to 365 days in length. Our contract pricing is regularly revisited and may be reset based on actual experience under the contract with adjustments for membership fluctuations and such inflation factors as cost of labor, fuel, insurance and utilization increases and decreases stemming from program re-designs. Seasonality. The quarterly operating results and operating cash flows of our NET Services operating segment normally fluctuate as a result of seasonal variations in the business, principally due to lower client demand for our non-emergency transportation services during the holiday and winter seasons. Due to the fixed revenue stream and variable expense base structure of our NET Services operating segment, expenses vary with these changes and, as a result, such expenses fluctuate on a quarterly basis. We expect quarterly fluctuations in operating results and operating cash flows to continue as a result of the seasonal demand for our non-emergency transportation services. As we enter new markets, we could be subject to additional seasonal variations along with any competitive response to our entry by other transportation providers. Competition. We compete with a variety of organizations that provide similar non-emergency transportation services to Medicaid eligible beneficiaries in local markets such as American Medical Response, Coordinated Transportation Solutions, Inc., First Transit, Inc., Medical Transportation Management Inc., MV Transportation, Inc., and Southeast Trans. as well as a host of local/regional transportation providers. Our competitors largely manage smaller-scale contract opportunities that encompass smaller geographic areas due to their lack of the statewide program management experience required to win a statewide competitive bid process. Historically, we have been successful in competitively bidding our non-emergency transportation management services for statewide or very large Medicaid population programs, as well as specialized non-emergency transportation benefits often offered to populations covered by managed care organizations. We compete based on our technical expertise and experience, which is delivered in a high service, competitive price environment although we are not necessarily the lowest priced management service provider. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, competition from new entrants into our markets that may be able to provide services at a lower cost. Regardless of how well we perform under our contracts (based on service or cost), we face competitive rebid situations from time to time. Increased competition could result in pricing pressures, loss of or failure to gain market share or loss of payers, any of which could harm our business. Sales and marketing. With respect to our non-emergency transportation services sales and marketing strategy, we focus on providing information to key legislators and agency officials. We pursue contracts through various methods including engaging lobbyists to assist in tracking legislation and funding that may impact our non-emergency transportation programs, and monitoring state websites for opportunities. In addition, we generate new business leads through trade shows and conferences, referrals, the Internet and direct marketing. The sales cycle usually takes between 6 to 24 months and there are various decision makers who provide input into the buy/no buy decision. By providing valuable information to key legislators and agency officials and creating a strong presence in the regions we serve, we are able to solidify the chance of renewal when contract terms expire. Additional payers are targeted within existing states in order to leverage pre-existing provider networks, technology, office and human resources investments. Furthermore, key commercial accounts are targeted which we define as accounts that are growing and located in multiple geographic areas. In many of the states where we have regional contracts, we seek to expand to include additional regions in these states and in contiguous states. All decisions about which RFPs to consider are centralized and selectively targeted based on our goals and service capabilities. Medicaid non-emergency transportation contracts with state agencies and larger Medicaid HMO’s represent the largest source of our non-emergency transportation revenue. 8 Table of Contents Employees As of December 31, 2009, our operations were conducted with over 7,000 clinical, client service representatives and administrative personnel. The operations of the entities we manage were conducted with over 3,000 clinical and administrative personnel. We have a collective bargaining agreement with the Service Employees International Union, Local 760 which covers approximately 150 part time employees in Connecticut under our special needs school transportation contract. We believe that our employee relations are good because we offer competitive compensation, including stock-based compensation, training, education assistance and career advancement opportunities. By offering competitive compensation and benefit packages to our employees, we believe we are able to consistently deliver high quality service, recruit qualified candidates and increase employee confidence, satisfaction and retention. Regulatory environment As a provider of social services, we are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations. These laws and regulations significantly affect the way in which we operate various aspects of our business. We must also comply with state and local licensing requirements and requirements for participation in Medicaid, federal block grant requirements, requirements of various state Children’s Health Insurance Programs, or CHIP, and contractual requirements imposed upon us by the state and local agencies with which we contract for such health care and social services. CHIP is a federal program providing benefits administered by states that submit plans for health benefits for children whose parents meet certain financial needs tests. Failure to follow the rules and requirements of these programs can significantly affect our ability to be paid for the services we provide. In addition, our revenue is largely derived from contracts that are directly or indirectly paid or funded by government agencies, including Medicaid. A significant decline in expenditures, shift of expenditures or funding could cause payers to reduce their expenditures under those contracts or not renew such contracts, either of which could have a negative impact on our future operating results. Surveys and audits Our programs are subject to periodic surveys by government authorities and/or their contractors to ensure compliance with various requirements. Regulators conducting periodic surveys often provide reports containing statements of deficiencies for alleged failures to comply with various regulatory requirements. In most cases, if a deficiency finding is made by a reviewing agency, we will work with the reviewing agency to agree upon the steps to be taken to bring our program into compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. In some cases, however, an agency may take a number of adverse actions against a program, including: • the imposition of fines or penalties; • temporary suspension of admission of new clients to our program’s service; • in extreme circumstances, decertification from participation in Medicaid or other programs; • revocation of our license; or • contract termination. From time to time, we receive and respond to survey reports containing statements of deficiencies. While we believe that our programs are in material compliance with Medicaid and other program certification requirements and state licensure requirements, failure to comply with these requirements could have a material adverse impact on our business and our ability to enter into contracts with other agencies to provide services. Billing/claims reviews and audits Agencies and other payers periodically conduct pre-payment or post-payment medical reviews or other audits of our claims. In order to conduct these reviews, payers request documentation from us and then review that documentation to determine compliance with applicable rules and regulations, including the eligibility of clients to receive benefits, the appropriateness of the care provided to those clients, and the documentation of that care. 9 Table of Contents For-profit ownership Certain of the agencies for which we provide services restrict our ability to contract directly as a for-profit organization. Instead, these agencies contract directly with a not-for-profit organization and in certain cases we negotiate to provide administrative and management services to the not-for-profit providers. The extent to which other agencies impose such requirements may affect our ability to continue to provide the full range of services that we provide or limit the organizations with which we can contract directly to provide services. Professional licensure and other requirements Many of our employees are subject to federal and state laws and regulations governing the ethics and practice of their professions. In addition, professionals who are eligible to participate in Medicaid as individual providers must not have been excluded from participation in government programs at any time. Our ability to provide services depends upon the ability of our personnel to meet individual licensure and other requirements. Federal and state anti-kickback laws and safe harbor provisions The federal anti-kickback law applicable to Medicaid and other federal health care programs makes it a felony to knowingly and willfully offer, pay, solicit or receive any form of remuneration in exchange for referring, recommending, arranging, purchasing, leasing or ordering items or services covered by such programs. The prohibitions apply regardless of whether the remuneration is provided directly or indirectly, whether or not in cash, and applies to both the person giving and the person receiving such remuneration. Interpretations of the anti-kickback law have been very broad and under current law, courts and federal regulatory authorities have stated that this law is violated if even one purpose (as opposed to the sole or primary purpose) of the arrangement is to induce referrals. This act is subject to numerous statutory and regulatory “safe harbors.” The safe harbor regulations, however, do not cover all lawful relationships between healthcare providers and referral sources. Failure of an arrangement to satisfy all of the requirements of a particular safe harbor does not mean that the arrangement is unlawful. However, it may mean that such an arrangement will be subject to scrutiny by the regulatory authorities. Violations of the anti-kickback law may be punishable by civil or criminal fines, imprisonment, and exclusion from government health care programs. Many states, including some where we do business, have adopted similar anti-kickback laws that have a potentially broad application as well. The Stark Law and state physician self-referral laws Section 1877 of the Social Security Act, or the Stark Law, prohibits physicians from ordering “designated health services” for Medicaid patients from entities or facilities in which such physicians hold a financial interest. This law is subject to a number of statutory or regulatory exceptions. Unlike a failure to meet a “safe harbor,” a relationship that falls within the scope of the Stark Law and fails to meet an exception would violate the law. Certain services that we provide may be identified as “designated health services” for purposes of the self-referral laws. We cannot assure you that future regulatory changes will not result in other services we provide becoming subject to the Stark Law’s ownership, investment or compensation prohibitions in the future. Many states, including some states where we do business, have adopted similar prohibitions against payments that are intended to induce referrals of clients. Moreover, many states where we operate have laws similar to the Stark Law prohibiting physician self-referrals. 10 Table of Contents We contract with a significant number of social services providers and practitioners, including therapists, physicians and psychiatrists, and arrange for these individuals or entities to provide services to our clients. While we believe that these contracts are in compliance with the anti-kickback and Stark Law, no assurance can be made that such contracts will not be considered in violation of the anti-kickback law or fall within an exception to the Stark Law. We cannot assure you that these laws will ultimately be interpreted in a manner consistent with our practices. False claims acts Federal criminal and civil false claims provisions, which provide that knowingly submitting claims for items or services that were not provided as represented may result in the imposition of multiple damages, administrative civil and monetary penalties, criminal fines and imprisonment. Many states, including some where we do business, have adopted laws and regulations similar to the federal law. Health information practices Under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, the United States Department of Health and Human Services, or DHHS, issued rules to define and implement standards for the electronic transactions and code sets for the submission of transactions such as claims, and privacy and security of individual health information in whatever manner it is maintained. In February 2006, DHHS published its Final Rule on Enforcement of the HIPAA Administrative Simplification provisions, including the transaction standards, the security standards and the privacy rule. This enforcement rule addresses, among other issues, DHHS’s policies for determining violations and calculating civil monetary penalties, how DHHS will address the statutory limitations on the imposition of civil monetary penalties, and various procedural issues. The rule extends enforcement provisions currently applicable to the health care privacy regulations to other HIPAA standards, including security, transactions and code sets. We have taken steps to ensure compliance with HIPAA and we are monitoring compliance on an ongoing basis. Additional information Our website is www.provcorp.com. We make available, free of charge at this website, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. The information on the website listed above, is not and should not be considered part of this annual report on Form 10-K and is not incorporated by reference in this document. In addition, we will provide, at no cost, paper or electronic copies of our Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K and amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Requests for such filings should be directed to Kate Blute, Director of Investor and Public Relations, telephone number: (520) 747-6600. Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risks should be read in conjunction with other information contained, or incorporated by reference, in this report, including the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” section and our consolidated financial statements and related notes. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents The current domestic economic downturn could cause a severe disruption in our operations. Our business has been negatively impacted by the current domestic economic downturn. If this downturn is prolonged or worsens, there could be several severely negative implications to our business that may exacerbate many of the risk factors we identified below including, but not limited to, the following: • Liquidity: • The domestic economic downturn and the associated credit crisis could continue or worsen and reduce liquidity and this could have a negative impact on financial institutions and the country’s financial system, which could, in turn, have a negative impact on our business. • We may not be able to borrow additional funds under our existing credit facilities and may not be able to expand our existing facility if participating lenders become insolvent or their liquidity is limited or impaired or if we fail to meet covenant levels going forward. In addition, we may not be able to renew our existing credit facility at the conclusion of its current term or renew it on terms that are favorable to us. • Demand: • The current recession has resulted in severe job losses, which could cause an increase in demand for our services; however, depending on the severity of the recession’s impact on our payers (particularly our state government payers), sufficient funds may not be allocated to compensate us for the services we provide at the current margins we enjoy or we may be required to provide more services to a growing population of beneficiaries without a corresponding increase in fees for these services. • Prices: • Certain markets have experienced and may continue to experience deflation, which would negatively impact our average fees and revenue. Our indebtedness may harm our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2009, our total consolidated long-term debt was $204.2 million. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to us and you, including: • it could adversely affect our ability to satisfy our obligations; • an increased portion of our cash flows from operations may have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; • it may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; • it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and • it may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general. Our operations may not generate sufficient cash to enable us to service our debt. If we were to fail to make any required payment under the agreements governing our indebtedness or fail to comply with the financial and operating covenants contained in these agreements, we would be in default. In the event we are not in compliance with the financial and operating covenants, it is uncertain whether the lenders will grant waivers for our non-compliance. Our lenders would have the ability to require that we immediately pay all outstanding indebtedness. If the lenders were to require immediate payment, we might not have sufficient assets to satisfy our obligations under our credit facility, our 6.5% convertible senior subordinated notes due 2014, or our subordinated notes, or our other indebtedness. In such event, we could be forced to seek protection under bankruptcy laws, which could have a material adverse effect on our existing contracts and our ability to procure new contracts as well as our ability to recruit and/or retain employees. Accordingly, a default could have a significant adverse effect on the market value and marketability of our common stock. 12 Table of Contents Changes in budgetary priorities of the government entities that fund the services we provide could result in our loss of contracts or a decrease in amounts payable to us under our contracts. Our revenue is largely derived from contracts that are directly or indirectly paid or funded by government agencies. All of these contracts are subject to legislative appropriations and state budget approval. Consequently, a significant decline in government expenditures, shift of expenditures or funding away from programs that call for the types of services that we provide or change in government contracting or funding policies could cause payers to terminate their contracts with us or reduce their expenditures under those contracts, either of which could have a negative impact on our future operating results. The availability for funding under our contracts with state governments is dependent in part upon federal funding to states. Changes in Medicaid methodology may further reduce the availability of federal funds to states in which we provide services. Among the alternative Medicaid funding approaches that states have explored are provider assessments as tools for leveraging increased Medicaid federal matching funds. Provider assessment plans generate additional federal matching funds to the states for Medicaid reimbursement purposes, and implementation of a provider assessment plan requires approval by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services in order to qualify for federal matching funds. These plans usually take the form of a bed tax or a quality assessment fee, which were required to be imposed uniformly across classes of providers within the state, except that such taxes only applied to Medicaid health plans. However, the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, which was signed into law on February 8, 2006, or Deficit Reduction Act, requires states that desire to impose provider taxes to impose taxes on all managed care organizations, not just Medicaid managed care organizations. This uniformity requirement as it relates to taxing all managed care organizations may make states more reluctant to use provider assessments as a vehicle for raising matching funds and, thus, reduce the amount of funding that the states receive and have available. Moreover, under the Deficit Reduction Act, states may be allowed to reduce the benefits provided to certain Medicaid enrollees, which could affect the services that states contract for with us. We cannot make any assurances that these Medicaid changes will not negatively affect the funding under our contracts. Currently, many of the states in which we operate are facing budgetary shortfalls or changes in budgetary priorities. In addition, in some states eligibility requirements for social services clients have been tightened to stabilize the number of eligible clients, which reduces the size of our potential market in those states. While many of these states are dealing with budgetary concerns by shifting costs from institutional care to home and community based care such as we provide, there is no assurance that this trend will continue. We derive a significant amount of our revenues from a few payers, which puts us at risk. We provide, or manage the provision of, government sponsored social services and non-emergency transportation services to individuals and families who are eligible for government assistance pursuant to federal mandate with respect to government sponsored social services and members of the disability community, or senior citizens with respect to non-emergency transportation services under various contracts with state and local governmental entities. We generate a significant amount of our revenues from a few payers under a small number of contracts. For example, in 2009 we generated approximately 47.6% of our total revenue from ten payers. Additionally, in our NET Services operating segment the aggregate revenue from our top five payers for the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2009 represented approximately 53% and 47%, respectively, of our NET Services operating segment revenue for such period. The loss of, reduction in amounts generated by, or changes in methods or regulations governing payments for our services under these contracts could materially reduce our revenue. 13 Table of Contents Our contract with The Community Partnership of Southern Arizona, referred to as CPSA, an Arizona not-for-profit organization, requires us to provide a sufficient level of encounters to support the year-to-date payments received under the contract and provide necessary services that may exceed the associated reimbursement. Our agreement with CPSA specifies that we are to provide or arrange for behavioral health services to certain eligible populations of beneficiaries as defined in the contract. We must provide a full range of behavioral health clinical, case management, therapeutic and administrative services. We are obliged to provide services only to those clients with a demonstrated medical necessity. Our annual funding allocation amount is subject to increase when our encounters exceed the contract amount; however, such increases in the annual funding allocation amount are subject to government appropriation and may not be approved. There is no contractual limit to the number of eligible beneficiaries that may be assigned to us, or a specified limit to the level of services that may be provided to these beneficiaries if the services are deemed to be medically necessary. Therefore, we are at-risk if the costs of providing necessary services exceed the associated reimbursement. Our contracts are not only short-term in nature but can also be terminated prior to expiration, without cause and without penalty to the payers, and there can be no assurance that they will survive until the end of their stated terms or that upon their expiration these contracts will be renewed or extended. Most of our contracts contain base periods of only one year. While some of them also contain options for renewal, usually successive six month or one year terms, payers are not required to extend their contracts into these option periods. In addition, a significant number of our social services contracts not only allow the payer to terminate the contract immediately for cause (such as for our failure to meet our contract obligations) but also permit the payer to terminate the contract at any time prior to its stated expiration date. In most cases the payer may terminate the social services contract without cause, at will and without penalty to the payer, either upon the expiration of a short notice period, typically 30 days, and/or immediately, in the event federal or state appropriations supporting the programs serviced by the contract are reduced or eliminated. In the case of our non-emergency transportation services contracts, these contracts are only cancellable for performance after notice and a cure period that typically ranges from 180 days to 365 days in length. The failure of payers to renew or extend significant contracts or their early termination of significant contracts could adversely affect our financial performance. We cannot anticipate if, when or to what extent a payer might terminate its contract with us prior to its expiration or fail to renew or extend its contract with us. Each of our contracts is subject to audit and modification by the payers with whom we contract, in their sole discretion. Our business depends on our ability to successfully perform under various government funded contracts. The payers under these contracts can review our performance under these contracts, as well as our records, accounting and general business practices at any time and may, in their discretion: • suspend or prevent us from receiving new contracts or extending existing contracts because of violations or suspected violations of procurement laws or regulations; • terminate or modify our existing contracts; • reduce the amount we are paid under our existing contracts; and/or • audit and object to our contract related fees. As a government contractor, we are subject to an increased risk of litigation and other legal actions and liabilities. As a government contractor, we are subject to an increased risk of investigation, criminal prosecution, civil fraud, whistleblower lawsuits and other legal actions and liabilities not often faced by companies that do not provide government sponsored services. The occurrence of any of these actions, regardless of the outcome, could disrupt our operations and cause us added expense and could limit our ability to obtain additional contracts in other jurisdictions. 14 Table of Contents A loss of our status as a licensed provider in any jurisdiction could result in the termination of a number of our contracts, which could negatively impact our revenues. If we lost our status as a licensed provider in any jurisdiction, the contracts under which we provide services in that jurisdiction would be subject to termination. Moreover, such an event could constitute a violation of provisions of our contracts in other jurisdictions, resulting in further contract terminations. If we fail to satisfy our contractual obligations, we could be liable for damages and financial penalties and harm our ability to keep our existing contracts or obtain new contracts. Our failure to comply with our contract obligations could, in addition to providing grounds for immediate termination of the contract for cause, negatively impact our financial performance and damage our reputation, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain new contracts. Our failure to meet contractual obligations could also result in substantial actual and consequential damages. The termination of a contract for cause could, for instance, subject us to liability for excess costs incurred by a payer in obtaining similar services from another source. In addition, our contracts require us to indemnify payers for our failure to meet standards of care, and some of them contain liquidated damages provisions and financial penalties that we must pay if we breach these contracts. If we fail to estimate accurately the cost of performing certain contracts, we may incur losses on these contracts. Under our fee-for-service contracts, we receive fees based on our interactions with government sponsored clients. To earn a profit on these contracts, we must accurately estimate costs incurred in providing services. Our risk on these contracts is that our client population is not large enough to cover our fixed costs, such as rent and other overhead. Our fee-for-service contracts are not reimbursed on a cost basis and therefore, if we fail to estimate our costs accurately, we may incur losses on these contracts. Additionally, approximately 89% of our non-emergency transportation services revenue is generated under capitated contracts with the remainder generated through fee-for service and fixed cost contracts. Under our capitated contracts, we assume the responsibility of managing the needs of a specific geographic population by contracting out transportation services to local van, cab and ambulance companies on a per ride or per mile basis. We use a “pricing model” to determine applicable contract rates, which take into account factors, such as estimated utilization, state specific data, previous experience in the state and/or with similar services, estimated volume and availability of mass transit. The amount of the fixed monthly per member per month fee is determined in the bidding process but predicated on actual historical transportation data for the subject geographic region (provided by the payer), actuarial work performed in-house as well as by third party actuarial firms and actuarial analyses provided by the payer. If the utilization of our services is more than we estimated, the contract may not be profitable. Approximately 7.3% and 7.9% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009, respectively, were derived from cost based service contracts for which we record revenue based on a combination of direct costs, indirect overhead allocations, and stated contractual margins on those costs, which puts us at risk that we may be required to subsequently refund a portion of the excess funds, if any. Our cost based service contracts require us to allow for contingencies such as budgeted costs not incurred, excess cost per service over the allowable contract rate and/or an insufficient number of encounters. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009, revenues from these contracts represented approximately 7.3% and 7.9% of our total revenues for the respective period. In cases where funds paid to us exceed the allowable costs to provide services under the contracts, we may be required to pay back the excess funds. Our results of operations will fluctuate due to seasonality. Our quarterly operating results and operating cash flows normally fluctuate as a result of seasonal variations in our business. In our Social Services operating segment, lower client demand for our home and community based services during the holiday and summer seasons generally results in lower revenue during those periods; however, 15 Table of Contents our expenses related to the Social Services operating segment do not vary significantly with these changes. As a result, our Social Services operating segment experiences lower operating margins during the holiday and summer seasons. Our NET Services operating segment also experiences fluctuations in demand for our non-emergency transportation services during the summer, winter and holiday seasons. Due to higher demand in the summer months and lower demand in the winter and holiday seasons, coupled with a fixed revenue stream based on a per member per month based structure, our NET Services operating segment experiences lower operating margins in the summer season and higher operating margins in the winter and holiday seasons. We expect quarterly fluctuations in operating results and operating cash flows to continue as a result of the seasonal demand for our home and community based services and non-emergency transportation services. As we enter new markets, we could be subject to additional seasonal variations along with any competitive response by other social services and transportation providers. While we obtain some of our business through responses to government requests for proposals, we may not be awarded contracts through this process in the future, and contracts we are awarded may not be profitable. We obtain, and will continue to seek to obtain, a significant portion of our business from state or local government entities. To obtain business from government entities, we are often required to respond to requests for proposals, or RFPs. To propose effectively, we must accurately estimate our cost structure for servicing a proposed contract, the time required to establish operations and the terms of the proposals submitted by competitors. We must also assemble and submit a large volume of information within rigid and often short timetables. Our ability to respond successfully to RFPs will greatly impact our business. We may not be awarded contracts through the RFP process, and our proposals may not result in profitable contracts. If we fail to establish and maintain important relationships with officials of government entities and agencies, we may not be able to successfully procure or retain government-sponsored contracts, which could negatively impact our revenues. To facilitate our ability to procure or retain government-sponsored contracts, we rely in part on establishing and maintaining relationships with officials of various government entities and agencies. These relationships enable us to provide informal input and advice to the government entities and agencies prior to the development of an RFP or program for privatization of social services and enhance our chances of procuring contracts with these payers. The effectiveness of our relationships may be reduced or eliminated with changes in the personnel holding various government offices or staff positions. We also may lose key personnel who have these relationships. We may be unable to successfully manage our relationships with government entities and agencies and with elected officials and appointees. Any failure to establish, maintain or manage relationships with government and agency personnel may hinder our ability to procure or retain government-sponsored contracts. The federal government may refuse to grant consents and/or waivers necessary to permit for-profit entities to perform certain elements of government programs. Under current law, in order to privatize certain functions of government programs, the federal government must grant a consent and/or waiver to the petitioning state or local agency. If the federal government does not grant a necessary consent or waiver or withdraw approval of any granted waiver, the state or local agency will be unable to contract with a for-profit entity, such as us, to provide service. Failure by state or local agencies to obtain consents and/or waivers could adversely affect our continued business and future growth. Our business could be adversely affected by future legislative changes that hinder or reverse the privatization of social services. The market for our services depends largely on federal, state and local legislative programs. These programs can be modified or amended at any time. Moreover, part of our growth strategy includes aggressively pursuing opportunities created by the federal, state and local initiatives to privatize the delivery of social services. However, 16 Table of Contents there are opponents to the privatization of social services and, as a result, future privatization of social services is uncertain. If additional privatization initiatives are not proposed or enacted, or if previously enacted privatization initiatives are challenged, repealed or invalidated, our growth could be adversely impacted. Our strategic relationships with certain not-for-profit and tax exempt entities are subject to tax and other risks. Since some government agencies in certain of our markets prefer or require contracts for privatized social services to be administered through not-for-profit organizations, we rely on our long-term relationships with not-for-profit organizations to provide services to these government agencies. We currently maintain strategic relationships with 16 not-for-profit social services organizations with which we have management contracts of varying lengths, 13 of which are federally tax exempt organizations. Our strategic relationships with tax exempt not-for-profit organizations are similar to those in the hospital management industry where tax exempt or faith based not-for-profit hospitals are managed by for-profit companies. Federal tax law requires that the boards of directors of not-for-profit tax exempt organizations be independent. The boards of directors of the tax exempt not-for-profit organizations for which we provide management services have a majority of independent members. The board members are predominately selected from independent members of the local community in which the not-for-profit entity operates. Decisions regarding our business relationships with these not-for-profit entities are made by their independent board members including approving the management fees we charge to manage their organizations and any discretionary bonuses. Federal tax law also requires that the management fees we charge the not-for-profit entities we manage be fixed and at fair market rates. Typically a fairness opinion is obtained by the not-for-profit entities we manage from an independent third party valuation consultant that substantiates the fair market rates. If the Internal Revenue Service determined that any tax exempt organization was paying more than market rates for services performed by us, the managed entity could lose its tax exempt status and owe back taxes and penalties. Generally, under state law, not-for-profit entities may pay no more than reasonable compensation for services rendered. If the compensation paid to us by these not-for-profit entities is deemed unreasonable, then the state could take action against the not-for-profit entity which could adversely affect us. Government unions may oppose privatizing government programs to outside vendors such as us, which could limit our market opportunities. Our success depends in part on our ability to win contracts to administer and manage programs traditionally administered by government employees. Many government employees, however, belong to labor unions with considerable financial resources and lobbying networks. These unions could apply political pressure on legislators and other officials seeking to privatize government programs. Union opposition could result in our losing government contracts or being precluded from providing services under government contracts. Inaccurate, misleading or negative media coverage could damage our reputation and harm our ability to procure government sponsored contracts. The media sometimes provides news coverage about our contracts and the services we provide to clients. This media coverage, if negative, could influence government officials to slow the pace of privatizing government services. Moreover, inaccurate, misleading or negative media coverage about us could harm our reputation and, accordingly, our ability to obtain government sponsored contracts. 17 Table of Contents We may incur costs before receiving related revenues, which could result in cash shortfalls. When we are awarded a contract to provide services, we may incur expenses before we receive any contract payments. These expenses include leasing office space, purchasing office equipment and hiring personnel. As a result, in certain large contracts where the government does not fund program start-up costs, we may be required to invest significant sums of money before receiving related contract payments. In addition, payments due to us from payers may be delayed due to billing cycles or as a result of failures to approve government budgets in a timely manner. Moreover, any resulting cash shortfall could be exacerbated if we fail to either invoice the payer or to collect our fee in a timely manner. Our business is subject to risks of litigation. We are in the human services and non-emergency transportation services businesses which are subject to lawsuits and claims. A substantial award could have a material adverse impact on our operations and cash flow and could adversely impact our ability to continue to purchase appropriate liability insurance. We can be subject to claims for negligence or intentional misconduct (in addition to professional liability type claims) by an employee, including but not limited to, claims arising out of accidents involving vehicle collisions, and various claims that could result from employees driving to or from interactions with clients and while providing direct client services. We are also subject to claims alleging we did not properly treat an individual or failed to properly diagnose and/or care for a client. We can be subject to employee related claims such as wrongful discharge or discrimination or a violation of equal employment law and permitting issues. While we are insured for these types of claims, damages exceeding our insurance limits or outside our insurance coverage, such as a claim for fraud or punitive damages, could adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition. Furthermore, we can be subject to miscellaneous errors and omissions liability relative to the various management agreements we have with the not-for-profit entities we manage. In the event of a claim and depending on, among other things, the circumstances, allegations, and size of the management contract, we could be subject to damages that could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our use of a reinsurance program to cover certain claims for losses suffered and costs or expenses incurred could negatively impact our business. We are reinsured with regard to a substantial portion of our general liability, professional liability and workers’ compensation insurance. We also reinsure the general liability, professional liability, workers’ compensation insurance, and automobile liability of certain designated affiliated entities and independent third party transportation providers over various policy years under reinsurance programs through our two wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiaries. In the event that actual reinsured losses increase unexpectedly or exceed actuarially determined estimated reinsured losses under the program, the aggregate of such losses could materially increase our liability and adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity, cash flows and results of operations. In addition, as the availability to us of certain traditional insurance coverage diminishes or increases in cost, we will continue to evaluate the levels and types of insurance we include in our self-insurance program. Any increase to this program increases our risk exposure and therefore increases the risk of a possible material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, cash flows and results of operations. We could be subject to significant state regulation and potential sanctions if our health care benefits program is deemed to be a multiple employer welfare arrangement. For the purpose of managing and providing employee healthcare benefits we deem ourselves to be a single employer under Section 3(5) of ERISA with regard to our own employees as well as the employees of certain of our managed entities covered by our healthcare benefit program to whom we offered healthcare benefits through June 2007. The Department of Labor or individual states could disagree with our interpretation and consider our program to be a multiple employer welfare arrangement, or MEWA, and, as such, subject to regulation by state insurance commissions. If involuntarily deemed a MEWA, our cost to manage the state-by-state regulatory environment for 18 Table of Contents the self-funded portion of our health insurance program would be prohibitive and we could, as a result, elect to maintain our self-funded health insurance plan only for our owned entities, forcing the three managed entities currently included in our self-funded plan to negotiate and purchase their own health benefits. In addition, if our health care benefits program is determined to be a MEWA, civil and/or criminal sanctions are possible. We face substantial competition in attracting and retaining experienced professionals, particularly social service professionals with respect to our social services and intellectual technology professionals with respect to our non-emergency transportation services, and we may be unable to grow our business if we cannot attract and retain qualified employees. Our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified and experienced social services professionals who possess the skills and experience necessary to deliver high quality services to our clients. Our objective of providing the highest quality of service to our clients is strongly considered when we evaluate education, experience and qualifications of potential candidates for employment as direct care and administrative staff. To that end, we attempt to hire professionals who have attained a bachelor’s degree, master’s degree or higher level of education and certification or licensure as direct care social services providers and administrators. These employees are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. We must quickly hire project leaders and case management personnel after a contract is awarded to us. Contract provisions and client needs determine the number, education and experience levels of social services professionals we hire. We continually evaluate client census, case loads and client eligibility to determine our staffing needs under each contract. Our performance in our non-emergency transportation services business largely depends on the talents and efforts of our highly skilled intellectual technology professionals. Competition for skilled intellectual technology professionals can be intense. Our success depends on our ability to recruit, retain and motivate these individuals. Our ability to attract and retain employees with the requisite experience and skills depends on several factors including, but not limited to, our ability to offer competitive wages, benefits and professional growth opportunities. Some of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater financial, technical, political and marketing resources, name recognition and a larger number of clients and payers than we do. The inability to attract and retain experienced personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success depends on our ability to manage growing and changing operations. Since 1996, our business has grown significantly in size and complexity. This growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, significant demands on our management, systems, internal controls and financial and physical resources. In addition, we expect that we will need to further develop our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems to accommodate future growth. This could require us to incur expenses for hiring additional qualified personnel, retaining professionals to assist in developing the appropriate control systems and expanding our information technology infrastructure. The nature of our business is such that qualified management personnel can be difficult to find. Our inability to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Any acquisition that we undertake could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and harm our operating results. We anticipate that we will continue making strategic acquisitions as part of our growth strategy. We have made a number of acquisitions since our inception, including 21 since our initial public offering in August 2003. The success of these and other acquisitions depends in part on our ability to integrate acquired companies into our business operations. There can be no assurance that the companies acquired will continue to generate income at the same historical levels on which we based our acquisition decisions, that we will be able to maintain or renew the acquired companies’ contracts, that we will be able to realize operating and economic efficiencies upon integration of acquired companies, or that the acquisitions will not adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. 19 Table of Contents We continually review opportunities to acquire other businesses that would complement our current services, expand our markets or otherwise offer growth opportunities. In connection with our acquisition strategy, we could issue stock that would dilute existing stockholders’ percentage ownership and/or we could incur or assume substantial debt or assume contingent liabilities. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • problems assimilating the purchased operations; • unanticipated costs and legal or financial liabilities associated with an acquisition; • diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with customers; • entering markets in which we have limited or no experience; • potential loss of key employees of purchased organizations; • the incurrence of excessive leverage in financing an acquisition; • failure to maintain and renew contracts; • unanticipated operating, accounting or management difficulties in connection with an acquisition; and • dilution to our earnings per share. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming problems encountered in connection with any acquisition and our inability to do so could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business. Changes in the accounting method for business combinations may have an adverse impact on our reported or future financial results. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and prior, we capitalized substantially all acquisition-related costs such as attorney’s fees and accountant’s fees, as well as contingent consideration to the seller as part of the purchase price. Beginning with the year ended December 31, 2009, with respect to business acquisitions we complete, we are required to: expense acquisition related costs as incurred; record contingent consideration at fair value at the acquisition date with subsequent changes in fair value to be recognized in the income statement; and recognize any adjustments to the purchase price allocation as a period cost in our income statement under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Our success depends on our ability to compete effectively in the marketplace. In our social services business, we compete for clients and for contracts with a variety of organizations that offer similar services. Most of our competition consists of local social services organizations that compete with us for local contracts such as United Way supported agencies and faith-based agencies such as Catholic Social Services, Jewish Family and Children’s Services and the Salvation Army. Other competitors include local not-for-profit organizations and community based organizations. Historically, these types of organizations have been favored in our industry as incumbent providers of services to government entities. We also compete with larger companies, such as Res-Care, Inc., which provides support services, training and educational programs predominantly to Medicaid eligible beneficiaries. National Mentor, Inc. is the country’s largest provider of foster care services and competes with us in existing markets for foster care services. In addition, many institutional providers offer some type of community based care including such organizations as Cornell Companies, Inc., Psychiatric Solutions, Inc. and The Devereaux Foundation. Some of these companies have greater financial, technical, political, marketing, name recognition and other resources and a larger number of clients and/or payers than we do. In addition, some of these companies offer more services than we do. We have experienced, and expect 20 Table of Contents to continue to experience, competition from new entrants into the markets in which we operate our social services business. Increased competition may result in pricing pressures, loss of or failure to gain market share or loss of clients or payers, any of which could harm our business. We compete with a variety of organizations that provide similar non-emergency transportation services to Medicaid eligible beneficiaries in local markets such as American Medical Response, Coordinated Transportation Solutions, Inc., First Transit, Inc., Medical Transportation Management Inc., MV Transportation, Inc., and Southeast Trans. Our competitors largely compete for smaller-scale contract opportunities that encompass smaller geographic areas. For example, most of our competitors seek to win contracts for specific counties, whereas we seek to win contracts for the entire state. If these competitors begin to compete on a larger scale basis, it could result in pricing pressures, loss of or failure to gain market share or loss of clients or payers, any of which could harm our business. Our business is subject to state licensing regulations and other regulatory provisions, including regulatory provisions governing surveys, audits, anti-kickbacks, self-referrals, false claims and The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, and changes to or violations of these regulations could negatively impact our revenues. In many of the locations where we operate, we are required by state law to obtain and maintain licenses. The applicable state and local licensing requirements govern the services we provide, the credentials of staff, record keeping, treatment planning, client monitoring and supervision of staff. The failure to maintain these licenses or the loss of a license could have a material adverse impact on our business and could prevent us from providing services to clients in a given jurisdiction. Most of our contracts are subject to surveys or audit by our payers. We are also subject to regulations that restrict our ability to contract directly with a government agency in certain situations. Such restrictions could affect our ability to contract with certain payers. In addition, we are or may be subject to anti-kickback, self-referral and false claim laws. Violations of these laws may result in significant penalties, including repayment of any amounts alleged to be overpayments or in violation of such laws, criminal fines, civil money penalties, damages, imprisonment, a ban from participation in federally funded healthcare programs and/or bans from obtaining government contracts. Such fines and other penalties could negatively impact our business by decreasing profits due to repayment of overpayments or from the imposition of fines and damages, damaging our reputation and diverting our management resources. Due to our access, use or disclosure of health information relating to individuals, we are subject to the privacy mandates of HIPAA. HIPAA mandates, among other things, the adoption of standards to enhance the efficiency and simplify the administration of the nation’s healthcare system. HIPAA requires the United States Department of Health and Human Services, or DHHS, to adopt standards for electronic transactions and code sets for basic healthcare transactions such as payment, eligibility and remittance advices, or “transaction standards,” privacy of individually identifiable health information, or “privacy standards,” security of individually identifiable health information, or “security standards,” electronic signatures, as well as unique identifiers for providers, employers, health plans and individuals and enforcement. Final regulations have been issued by DHHS for the privacy standards, and some of the transaction standards and security standards. As a healthcare provider, we are required to comply in our operations with these standards as applicable and are subject to significant civil and criminal penalties for failure to do so. In addition, in connection with providing services to customers that also are healthcare providers, we are required to provide satisfactory written assurances to those customers that we will provide those services in accordance with the privacy standards and security standards. HIPAA has and will require significant and costly changes for our company and others in the healthcare industry. Compliance with the privacy standards became mandatory in April 2003, compliance with the transaction standards became mandatory in October 2003 (although full implementation was delayed with respect to the Medicare program until October 2005), and compliance with the security standards became mandatory in April 2005. In February 2006, DHHS published its Final Rule on Enforcement of the HIPAA Administrative Simplification provisions, including the transaction standards, the security standards and the privacy rule. This enforcement rule 21 Table of Contents addresses, among other issues, DHHS’s policies for determining violations and calculating civil money penalties, how DHHS will address the statutory limitations on the imposition of civil monetary penalties, and various procedural issues. We have appointed an internal committee to maintain our privacy and security policies regarding client information in compliance with HIPAA. This committee is responsible for training our employees, including our regional and local managers and staff, to comply with HIPAA and monitoring compliance with the policy. However, like other businesses subject to HIPAA regulations, we cannot fully predict the total financial or other impact of these regulations on us. The costs associated with our ongoing compliance could be substantial, which could negatively impact our profitability. Our international operations expose us to various risks, any number of which could harm our business. As a result of our acquisition of WCG International Consultants Ltd. on August 1, 2007, we now have operations in Canada. We are subject to the risks inherent in conducting business across national boundaries, any one of which could adversely impact our business. In addition to currency fluctuations, these risks include, among other things: • economic downturns; • changes in or interpretations of local law, governmental policy or regulation; • restrictions on the transfer of funds into or out of the country; • varying tax systems; • delays from doing business with governmental agencies; • nationalization of foreign assets; and • government protectionism. We intend to continue to evaluate opportunities to establish new operations in Canada. One or more of the foregoing factors could impair our current or future operations and, as a result, harm our overall business. We operate in multiple tax jurisdictions and we are taxable in most of them and face the risk of double taxation if one jurisdiction does not acquiesce to the tax claims of another jurisdiction. We currently operate in the United States and Canada and are subject to income taxes in those countries and the specific states and/or provinces where we operate. In the event one taxing jurisdiction disagrees with another taxing jurisdiction, we could experience temporary or permanent double taxation and increased professional fees to resolve taxation matters. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 