ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The industries and market segments in which we operate are highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively with larger companies with greater financial resources than we have. The life science and clinical diagnostics markets are each highly competitive. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources than we do and are less leveraged than we are, making them better equipped to license technologies and intellectual property from third parties or to fund research and development, manufacturing and marketing efforts. Moreover, competitive and regulatory conditions in many markets in which we operate restrict our ability to fully recover, through price increases, higher costs of acquired goods and services resulting from inflation and other drivers of cost increases. Our competitors can be expected to continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive price and performance characteristics. Although we believe that we have certain technological and other advantages over our competitors, maintaining these advantages will require us to continue to invest in research and de velopment, sales and marketing and customer service and support. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make such investments or that we will be successful in maintaining such advantages. 5 We have significant international operations which subject us to various foreign risks such as general economic and market conditions in the countries in which we operate. A significant portion of our sales are made outside of the United States. Our foreign subsidiaries generated 65% of our net sales in the year ended December 31, 2006. Our international operations are subject to risks common to foreign operations, such as general economic and market conditions in the countries in which we operate, changes in governmental regulations, political instability, import restrictions and currency exchange rate risks. Although we enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge against future movements in foreign exchange rates that affect our intercompany receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies, we cannot assure you that shifts in currency exchange rates, especially significant strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to the Euro, will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We are dependent on government funding and the capital spending policies of our customers, and the effect of potential healthcare reform on government funding and our customers’ ability to purchase our products is uncertain. Our customers include universities, clinical diagnostics laboratories, government agencies, hospitals and pharmaceutical, biotechnology and chemical companies. The capital spending policies of these institutions and companies have a significant effect on the demand for our products. Such policies are based on a wide variety of factors, including the resources available to make such purchases, the availability of funding from grants by governments or government agencies, the spending priorities among various types of equipment and the policies regarding capital expenditures during industry downturns or recessionary periods. If government funding to our customers were to decrease, or if our customers were to decrease or reallocate their budgets in a manner adverse to us, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Healthcare reform and the growth of managed care organizations have been and continue to be significant factors in the clinical diagnostics market. The trend towards managed care, together with efforts to reform the healthcare delivery system in the United States and Europe, has resulted in increased pressure on healthcare providers and other participants in the healthcare industry to reduce costs. Consolidation among healthcare providers has resulted in fewer, more powerful groups, whose purchasing power gives them cost containment leverage. These competitive forces place constraints on the levels of overall pricing, and thus could have a material adverse effect on our profit margins for products we sell in clinical diagnostics markets. To the extent that the healthcare industry seeks to address the need to contain costs by limiting the number of clinical tests being performed, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If these changes in the healthcare markets in the United States and Europe continue, we could be forced to alter our approach in selling, marketing, distributing and servicing our products. We derive a portion of our profits from our tests for “mad cow” disease. A portion of our revenues and profits derive from the sale of our tests for Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE or “mad cow” disease). We believe that there are multiple other competitors that offer BSE tests approved by regulatory authorities in Europe and Japan. Further, government subsidies have supported purchases by our customers of BSE tests. If governments in our key markets cease or substantially reduce the subsidies provided, we may have to lower prices for, or reduce sales of, our BSE tests. Finally, if the threat to the world food supply from BSE was materially reduced, either through eradication of BSE or otherwise, sales of BSE tests would materially decline. If any of these events were to occur, it could have a material negative impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 6 Our failure to improve our product offerings and develop and introduce new products may negatively impact our business. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to improve our product offerings and develop and introduce new product lines and extensions that integrate new technological advances. If we are unable to integrate technological advances into our product offerings or to design, develop, manufacture and market new product lines and extensions successfully and in a timely manner, our operating results will be adversely affected. While we expect to continue to invest in research and development for all of our market segments, we cannot assure you that our product and process development efforts will be successful or that new products we introduce will achieve market acceptance. If we experience a disruption of our information technology systems, or if we fail to successfully manage and integrate our information technology and reporting systems, it could harm our business. Our information technology (IT) systems are an integral part of our business, and a serious disruption of our IT systems could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We depend on our IT systems to process orders, manage inventory and collect accounts receivable. Our IT systems also allow us to efficiently purchase products from our suppliers and ship products to our customers on a timely basis, maintain cost-effective operations and provide customer service. While we have contingency plans in place in case of an emergency, we cannot assure you that the plans will allow us to operate at our current level of efficiency. Our ability to implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market requires effective planning, reporting and analytical processes. We expect that we will need to continue to improve and further integrate our IT systems, reporting systems and operating procedures by training and educating our employees with respect to these improvements and integrations on an ongoing basis in order to effectively run our business. If we fail to successfully manage and integrate our IT, reporting systems and operating procedures, it could adversely affect our business or operating results. Risks relating to intellectual property rights may negatively impact our business. We rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret, patent and trademark laws and third-party nondisclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property rights and products. However, we cannot assure you that our intellectual property rights will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable, or that meaningful protection or adequate remedies will be available to us. For instance, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy our intellectual property, to reverse engineer or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary, or to develop equivalent technologies independently. Additionally, third parties may assert patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to us. If we are unable to license or otherwise access protected technology used in our products, or if we lose our rights under any existing licenses, we could be prohibited from manufacturing and marketing such p roducts. We may find it necessary to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights or to defend ourselves against claimed infringement of the rights of others through litigation, which could result in substantial costs to us and divert our resources. We also could incur substantial costs to redesign our products, to defend any legal action taken against us or to pay damages to an infringed party. The foregoing matters could adversely impact our business. 7 We are subject to substantial government regulation. Some of our products (primarily diagnostic products), production processes and marketing are subject to federal, state, local and foreign regulation, including the FDA and its foreign counterparts. We are also subject to government regulation of the use and handling of a number of materials and controlled substances. Failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in substantial liability to us, suspension or cessation of our operations, restrictions on our ability to expand at our present locations or require us to make significant capital expenditures or incur other significant expenses. We are currently subject to environmental regulations and enforcement proceedings. Our operations are subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations that govern such activities as transportation of goods, emissions to air and discharges to water, as well as handling and disposal practices for solid, hazardous and medical wastes. In addition to environmental laws that regulate our operations, we are also subject to environmental laws and regulations that create liability and clean-up responsibility for spills, disposals or other releases of hazardous substances into the environment as a result of our operations or otherwise impacting real property that we own or operate. The environmental laws and regulations also subject us to claims by third parties for damages resulting from any spills, disposals or releases resulting from our operations or at any of our properties. We will in the future incur capital and operating costs to comply with currently existing laws and regulations, and possible new statutory enactments, and these expenditures may be significant. We have incurred, and may in the future incur, fines related to environmental matters and liability for costs or damages related to spills or other releases of hazardous substances into the environment at sites where we have operated, or at off-site locations where we have sent hazardous substances for disposal. In that regard, we currently are investigating soil and groundwater contamination at one of our properties under the oversight of a state agency. Based on the currently available information, we believe that the costs to clean up this contamination will not have a material adverse effect on the future results of our operations or our financial condition. We can provide no assurance, however, that such matters or any future obligations to comply with environmen tal laws and regulations will not have a material impact on our operations or financial condition. We cannot assure you that we will be able to integrate acquired companies, products or technologies into our company successfully. As part of our overall business strategy, we pursue acquisitions of and investments in complementary companies, products and technologies. In order to be successful in these activities, we must, among other things: · assimilate the operations and personnel of acquired companies; · minimize potential disruption to our ongoing business; · retain key technical and management personnel; · integrate acquired companies into our strategic and financial plans; · accurately assess the value of target companies, products and technologies; · harmonize standards, controls, procedures and policies; and · minimize the impact to our relationships with our employees and customers. 8 The benefits of any acquisition may prove to be less than anticipated and may not outweigh the costs reported in our financial statements. Completing any potential future acquisition could cause significant diversion of our management’s time and resources. If we acquire new companies, products or technologies, we may be required to assume contingent liabilities and record impairment charges for goodwill and other intangible assets over time. We cannot assure you that we will successfully overcome these risks or any other problems we encounter in connection with any acquisitions, and any such acquisitions could adversely affect our business, financial position or operating results. Loss of key personnel could hurt our business. Our products and services are highly technical in nature. In general, only highly qualified and trained scientists have the necessary skills to develop and market our products and provide our services. In addition, some of our manufacturing positions are highly technical. We face intense competition for these professionals from our competitors, customers, marketing partners and other companies throughout our industry. We generally do not enter into employment agreements requiring these employees to continue in our employment for any period of time. Any failure on our part to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel could seriously damage our business. Additionally, if we were to lose a sufficient number of our research and development scientists and were unable to replace them or satisfy our needs for research and development through outsourcing, it could adversely affect our business. A significant majority of our voting stock is held by the Schwartz family, which could lead to conflicts of interest. We have two classes of voting stock, Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. With a few exceptions, holders of Class A and Class B Common Stock vote as a single class. When voting as a single class, each share of Class A Common Stock is entitled to one-tenth of a vote, while each share of Class B Common Stock has one vote. In the election or removal of directors, the classes vote separately and the holders of Class A Common Stock are entitled to elect 25% of the Board of Directors, with holders of Class B Common Stock electing the remaining directors. As of February 15, 2007 the Schwartz family collectively held approximately 17% of our Class A Common Stock and 89% of our Class B Common Stock. As a result, the Schwartz family is able to elect a majority of the directors, effect fundamental changes in our direction and control matters affecting us, including the allocation of business opportunities that may be suitable for our company. In addition, this concentration of ownership and voting power may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company. The Schwartz family may exercise its control over us according to interests that are different from other investors’ or debtors’ interests. 9 Our business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. The design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. While management continues to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we cannot assure you that our disclosure controls and procedures over internal control of financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. Deficiencies, particularly a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting, which may occur in the future could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements, a decline in our stock price, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operation, financial condition or liquidity. Terrorist attacks or acts of war may cause damage or disruption to us and our employees, facilities, information systems, security systems, vendors and customers, which could significantly impact our net sales, costs and expenses, and financial condition. Terrorist attacks, such as those that occurred on September 11, 2001, have contributed to economic instability in the United States, and further acts of terrorism, bioterrorism, violence or war could affect the markets in which we operate, our business operations, our expectations and other forward-looking statements contained or incorporated in this document. The threat of terrorist attacks in the United States since September 11, 2001 continues to create many economic and political uncertainties. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the United States and international responses to terrorist attacks, and other acts of war or hostility, including the war in Iraq, may cause greater uncertainty and cause our business to suffer in ways that we cannot currently predict. Events such as those referred to above could cause or contribute to a general decline in investment valuations, which in turn could reduce the market value of your investment. In addition, terrorist attacks, particularly acts of bioterrorism that directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers could have an impact on our sales, supply chain, production capability and costs and our ability to deliver our products to our customers. We have substantial debt and have the ability to incur additional debt. The principal and interest payment obligations of such debt may restrict our future operations and impair our ability to meet our obligations under the notes. As of December 31, 2006 we and our subsidiaries have approximately $426.1 million of outstanding indebtedness. In addition, the indenture governing the notes permits us to incur additional debt provided we comply with the limitation on the incurrence of additional indebtedness and disqualified capital stock covenant contained in the indenture. The following chart shows certain important credit statistics and is presented as of December 31, 2006. At December 31, 2006 (in millions) Total debt $426.1 Stockholders’ equity $819.5 Debt to equity ratio 0.5 10 The incurrence of substantial amounts of debt may have important consequences to you. For instance, it could: · make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including those relating to the notes; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of interest and principal due under our debt, including the notes, which will reduce funds available for other business purposes; · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with some of our competitors that have less debt; and · limit our ability to obtain additional financing required to fund working capital and capital expenditures and for other general corporate purposes. Our ability to satisfy our obligations and to reduce our total debt depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow, and future financings may not be available to provide sufficient net proceeds, to meet these obligations or to successfully execute our business strategy. The agreements governing our debt impose restrictions on our business. The indenture governing our notes and the terms of other debt instruments, including without limitation our credit facilities and other agreements we may enter in the future, contain or will contain covenants imposing significant restrictions on our business. These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. These covenants place restrictions on our ability to, among other things: · incur additional debt; · acquire other businesses or assets through merger or purchase; · create liens; · make investments; · enter into transactions with affiliates; · sell assets; · in the case of some of our subsidiaries, guarantee debt; · declare or pay dividends, redeem stock or make other distributions to shareholders. 11 Our existing credit facility also requires that we meet certain financial tests and maintain certain financial ratios, including a maximum consolidated leverage ratio test, minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio test and a minimum net worth test. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. The breach of any of these restrictions could result in a default. An event of default under our debt agreements would permit some of our lenders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. If we were unable to repay debt to our senior secured lenders, these lenders could proceed against the collateral securing that debt. In addition, acceleration of our other indebtedness may cause us to be unable to make interest payments on our notes and repay the principal amount of the notes or may cause the future subsidiary guarantors, if any, to be unable to make payments under the guarantees. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 