Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risks should be read in conjunction with other information contained, or incorporated by reference, in this report, including the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” section and our consolidated financial statements and related notes. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. The domestic economic downturn in recent years and current uncertain economic environment could cause a severe disruption in our operations. Our business could be negatively impacted by significant domestic economic downturns and the current uncertain economic environment. If this uncertainty is prolonged or economic conditions worsen, there could be several severely negative implications to our business that may exacerbate many of the risk factors we identified below including, but not limited to, the following: • Liquidity: • The domestic economic uncertainty could continue or worsen and reduce liquidity and this could have a negative impact on financial institutions and the country’s financial system, which could, in turn, have a negative impact on our business. • We may not be able to borrow additional funds under our current credit facilities and may not be able to expand our current facility if participating lenders become insolvent or their liquidity is limited or impaired or if we fail to meet covenant levels going forward. In addition, we may not be able to renew our existing credit facility at the conclusion of its current term particularly if its maturity is accelerated as discussed below or renew it on terms that are favorable to us. • Demand: • The recent recession has resulted in severe job losses, which could cause an increase in demand for our services; however, depending on the severity of the recession’s impact on our payers (particularly our state government payers), sufficient funds may not be allocated to compensate us for the services we provide at the current margins we enjoy or we may be required to provide more services to a growing population of beneficiaries without a corresponding increase in fees for these services. • Prices: • Certain markets have experienced and may continue to experience contraction, which would negatively impact our average fees and revenue. Our indebtedness may harm our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2012, our total consolidated long-term debt was $130 million. On March 11, 2011, we refinanced our then existing debt under a new credit agreement. Under the repayment terms of the new credit agreement, we are obligated to repay the term loan in quarterly installments on the last day of each calendar quarter, which commenced on June 30, 2011, so that the following percentages of the outstanding principal amount will be paid as follows: 10% in year one, 10% in year two, 15% in year three, 15% in year four and the remaining balance in year five. As discussed below, the maturity date of our credit facility could be accelerated. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including: • it could adversely affect our ability to satisfy our obligations; • an increased portion of our cash flows from operations may have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; 15 • it may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; • it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and • it may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general. Our operations may not generate sufficient cash to enable us to service our debt. If we were to fail to make any required payment under the agreements governing our indebtedness or fail to comply with the financial and operating covenants contained in these agreements, we would be in default. In the event we are not in compliance with the financial and operating covenants, it is uncertain whether the lenders will grant waivers for our non-compliance. Our lenders would have the ability to require that we immediately pay all outstanding indebtedness. If the lenders were to require immediate payment, we might not have sufficient assets to satisfy our obligations under our credit facility or our 6.5% convertible senior subordinated notes due in 2014, or the Notes. In such event, we could be forced to seek protection under bankruptcy laws, which could have a material adverse effect on our existing contracts and our ability to procure new contracts as well as our ability to recruit and/or retain employees. Accordingly, a default could have a significant adverse effect on the market value and marketability of our common stock. Our liquidity may be materially and adversely affected in the event that the maturity date of our credit facility is accelerated. Our credit facility matures on March 11, 2016; provided however that, if there are more than $25.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our Notes outstanding on September 30, 2013, the credit facility will terminate and all amounts outstanding thereunder will be due and payable in full on November 15, 2013, unless we have provided the administrative agent with cash collateral on or before September 30, 2013 in an amount sufficient to repay the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Notes. In the event that there is more than $25.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our Notes outstanding on September 30, 2013, the maturity date will be automatically reinstated to March 11, 2016 if: (i) we reduce the principal amount of the Notes to an aggregate amount of no more than $25.0 million on a date prior to November 15, 2013, (ii) we have availability under the revolving credit facility plus unrestricted cash in an amount at least equal to the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Notes on such date and (iii) there is no default or event of default under the credit facility on such date. If the debt outstanding under the credit facility is accelerated and we were unable to pay in full our obligations thereunder by refinancing the debt outstanding under our credit facility or obtain new financing and we are unable to obtain sufficient cash to provide the cash collateral required, we would have to consider other options, such as the sale of assets, sales of equity and/or negotiations with our lenders to restructure the applicable indebtedness. There is no guarantee that we will be able to do so, in which case we may have to significantly reduce our spending and may be unable to execute our existing short- or long-term business plan, and our liquidity and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Lack of access to the credit market could negatively impact our ability to operate our business and to execute our business strategy. Due to the changes in the global credit market in the recent past, there has been deterioration in the credit and capital markets and access to financing is limited and uncertain. If the capital and credit markets continue to experience weakness and the availability of funds remains limited, we may incur increased costs associated with any additional financing we may require for future operations or we may be unable to obtain such financing at all. Changes in budgetary priorities of the government entities that fund the services we provide could result in our loss of contracts or a decrease in amounts payable to us under our contracts. Our revenue is largely derived from contracts that are directly or indirectly paid or funded by government agencies. All of these contracts are subject to legislative appropriations and state budget approval. Consequently, a significant decline in government expenditures, shift of expenditures or funding away from programs that call for the types of services that we provide or change in government contracting or funding policies could cause payers to terminate their contracts with us or reduce their expenditures under those contracts, either of which could have a negative impact on our future operating results. 16 The availability for funding under our contracts with state governments is dependent in part upon federal funding to states. Changes in Medicaid methodology may further reduce the availability of federal funds to states in which we provide services. Among the alternative Medicaid funding approaches that states have explored are provider assessments as tools for leveraging increased Medicaid federal matching funds. Provider assessment plans generate additional federal matching funds to the states for Medicaid reimbursement purposes, and implementation of a provider assessment plan requires approval by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services in order to qualify for federal matching funds. These plans usually take the form of a bed tax or a quality assessment fee, which were required to be imposed uniformly across classes of providers within the state, except that such taxes only applied to Medicaid health plans. However, the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, or Deficit Reduction Act, requires states that desire to impose provider taxes to impose taxes on all managed care organizations, not just Medicaid managed care organizations. This uniformity requirement as it relates to taxing all managed care organizations may make states more reluctant to use provider assessments as a vehicle for raising matching funds and, thus, reduce the amount of funding that the states receive and have available. Moreover, under the Deficit Reduction Act, states may be allowed to reduce the benefits provided to certain Medicaid enrollees, which could affect the services that states contract for with us. We cannot make any assurances that these Medicaid changes will not negatively affect the funding under our contracts. As funding under our contracts is dependent in part upon federal funding, such funding changes could have a significant effect upon our business. Currently, many of the states in which we operate are facing budgetary shortfalls or changes in budgetary priorities. In addition, in some states eligibility requirements for social services clients have been tightened to stabilize the number of eligible clients and in certain instances states have implemented or are considering implementing a single point of access to care or a managed care model, which reduces the size of our potential market in those states. While many of these states are dealing with budgetary concerns by shifting costs from institutional care to home and community based care such as we provide, there is no assurance that this trend will continue. We conduct business in a heavily regulated healthcare industry; compliance with existing regulations is costly and changes in regulations or violations of regulations may result in increased costs or sanctions that reduce our revenue and profitability. The healthcare industry is subject to extensive federal and state regulation relating to, among other things: • professional licensure; • conduct of operations; • addition of facilities, equipment and services, including certificates of need; • coding and billing for services; and • payment for services. Both federal and state government agencies have increased coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts related to the healthcare industry. Regulations related to the healthcare industry are extremely complex and, in many instances, the industry does not have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of those laws. Medicare and Medicaid anti-fraud and abuse laws prohibit certain business practices and relationships related to items and services reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental healthcare programs, including the payment or receipt of remuneration to induce or arrange for referral of patients or recommendation for the provision of items or services covered by Medicare or Medicaid or any other federal or state healthcare program. Federal and state laws prohibit the submission of false or fraudulent claims, 17 including claims to obtain reimbursement under Medicare and Medicaid. We have implemented compliance policies to help assure our compliance with these regulations as they become effective; however, different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations in the future could subject our practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services or the manner in which we conduct our business. We could be subject to actions for false claims if we do not comply with government coding and billing rules which could harm our business. If we fail to comply with federal and state documentation, coding and billing rules, we could be subject to criminal and/or civil penalties, loss of licenses and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which could harm our business. In billing for our services to third-party payers, we must follow complex documentation, coding and billing rules. These rules are based on federal and state laws, rules and regulations, various government pronouncements, and on industry practice. Failure to follow these rules could result in potential criminal or civil liability under the federal False Claims Act, under which extensive financial penalties can be imposed and/or under various state statutes which prohibit the submission of false claims for services covered. It could further result in criminal liability under various federal and state criminal or civil statutes. While we plan to carefully and regularly review our documentation, coding and billing practices, the rules are frequently vague and confusing and we cannot assure that governmental investigators, private insurers or private whistleblowers will not challenge our practices. Such a challenge could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to comply with the federal Anti-kickback Statute, we could be subject to criminal and civil penalties, loss of licenses and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which could materially harm us. The federal Anti-kickback Statute prohibits the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for referring, ordering, leasing, purchasing or arranging for or recommending the ordering, purchasing or leasing of items or services payable by a federally funded healthcare program. Any of our financial relationships with healthcare providers will be potentially implicated by this statute to the extent Medicare or Medicaid referrals are implicated. Violations of the Anti-kickback Statute could result in substantial civil or criminal penalties, including criminal fines of up to $25,000 per violation, imprisonment of up to five years, civil penalties under the Civil Monetary Penalties Law (42 U.S.C. 1320a-7a) of up to $50,000 per violation, plus three times the remuneration involved, civil penalties under the False Claims Act of up to $11,000 for each claim submitted, plus three times the amounts paid for such claims and exclusion from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Any such penalties could have a significant negative effect on our operations. Furthermore, the exclusion, if applied to us, could result in significant reductions in our revenues, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of our operations. In addition, many states have adopted laws similar to the federal Anti-kickback Statute. If we fail to comply with physician self-referral laws, to the extent applicable to our business operations, we could incur a significant loss of reimbursement revenue. We may be subject to federal and state statutes and regulations banning payments for referrals of patients and referrals by physicians to healthcare providers with whom the physicians have a financial relationship and billing for services provided pursuant to such referrals if any occur. Violation of these federal and state laws and regulations, to the extent applicable to our business operations, may result in prohibition of payment for services rendered, loss of licenses, fines, criminal penalties and exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid programs. To the extent we do maintain such financial relationships with physicians, we plan to rely on certain exceptions to self-referral laws that we believe will be applicable to such arrangements. 18 We will be subject to potential risks as a result of the regulations relating to privacy and security of patient information. There are numerous federal and state regulations addressing patient information privacy and security concerns. In particular, the federal regulations issued under HIPAA, contain provisions that: • protect individual privacy by limiting the uses and disclosures of patient information; • require the implementation of security safeguards to ensure the confidentiality, integrity and availability of individually identifiable health information in electronic form; and • prescribe specific transaction formats and data code sets for certain electronic healthcare transactions. Compliance with state and federal laws and regulations is costly and requires our management to expend substantial time and resources. Further, the HIPAA regulations and state privacy laws expose us to increased regulatory risk, as the penalties associated with a failure to comply, even if unintentional, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have appointed an internal committee to maintain our privacy and security policies regarding client information in compliance with HIPAA. This committee is responsible for training our employees, including our regional and local managers and staff, to comply with HIPAA and monitoring compliance with the policy. The costs associated with our ongoing compliance could be substantial, which could negatively impact our profitability. We derive a significant amount of our revenues from a few payers, which puts us at risk. We provide, or manage the provision of, government sponsored social services and non-emergency transportation services to individuals and families who are eligible for government assistance pursuant to federal mandate with respect to government sponsored social services and members of the disability community, or senior citizens with respect to non-emergency transportation services under various contracts with state and local governmental entities. We generate a significant amount of our revenues from a few payers under a small number of contracts. For example, in 2010, 2011 and 2012 we generated approximately 48.8%, 48.6% and 48.5%, respectively, of our total revenue from ten payers. Additionally, our top five payers related to our NET Services operating segment represent, in the aggregate, approximately 49%, 49% and 43%, respectively, of our NET Services operating segment revenue for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012. The top five payers related to our Social Services operating segment represent, in the aggregate, approximately 36%, 38% and 39%, respectively, of our Social Services operating segment revenue for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012. The loss of, reduction in amounts generated by, or changes in methods or regulations governing payments for our services under these contracts could materially reduce our revenue. Our contracts are not only short-term in nature but can also be terminated prior to expiration, without cause and without penalty to the payers, and there can be no assurance that they will survive until the end of their stated terms or that upon their expiration these contracts will be renewed or extended. Most of our contracts contain base periods of only one year. While some of them also contain options for renewal, usually successive six month or one year terms, payers are not required to extend their contracts into these option periods. In addition, a significant number of our social services contracts not only allow the payer to terminate the contract immediately for cause (such as for our failure to meet our contract obligations) but also permit the payer to terminate the contract at any time prior to its stated expiration date. In most cases the payer may terminate the social services contract without cause, at will and without penalty to the payer, either upon the expiration of a short notice period, typically 30 days, and/or immediately, in the event federal or state appropriations supporting the programs serviced by the contract are reduced or eliminated. In the case of our non-emergency transportation services contracts, these contracts are only cancellable for performance after notice and a cure period that typically ranges from 180 days to 365 days in length. The failure of payers to renew 19 or extend significant contracts or their early termination of significant contracts could adversely affect our financial performance. We cannot anticipate if, when or to what extent a payer might terminate its contract with us prior to its expiration or fail to renew or extend its contract with us. Each of our contracts is subject to audit and modification by the payers with whom we contract, in their sole discretion. Our business depends on our ability to successfully perform under various government funded contracts. The payers under these contracts can review our performance under these contracts, as well as our records, accounting and general business practices at any time and may, in their discretion: • suspend or prevent us from receiving new contracts or extending existing contracts because of violations or suspected violations of procurement laws or regulations; • terminate or modify our existing contracts; • reduce the amount we are paid under our existing contracts; and/or • audit and object to our contract related fees. As a government contractor, we are subject to an increased risk of litigation and other legal actions and liabilities. As a government contractor, we are subject to an increased risk of investigation, criminal prosecution, civil fraud, whistleblower lawsuits and other legal actions and liabilities not often faced by companies that do not provide government sponsored services. The occurrence of any of these actions, regardless of the outcome, could disrupt our operations and result in added expense and could limit our ability to obtain additional contracts in other jurisdictions. A loss of our status as a licensed provider in any jurisdiction could result in the termination of a number of our contracts, which could negatively impact our revenues. If we lost our status as a licensed provider in any jurisdiction, the contracts under which we provide services in that jurisdiction would be subject to termination. Moreover, such an event could constitute a violation of provisions of our contracts in other jurisdictions, resulting in further contract terminations. If we fail to satisfy our contractual obligations, we could be liable for damages and financial penalties and harm our ability to keep our existing contracts or obtain new contracts. Our failure to comply with our contract obligations could, in addition to providing grounds for immediate termination of the contract for cause, negatively impact our financial performance and damage our reputation, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain new contracts. Our failure to meet contractual obligations could also result in substantial actual and consequential damages. The termination of a contract for cause could, for instance, subject us to liability for excess costs incurred by a payer in obtaining similar services from another source. In addition, our contracts require us to indemnify payers for our failure to meet standards of care, and some of them contain liquidated damages provisions and financial penalties that we must pay if we breach these contracts. Moreover, negative results of audits by government auditors or their contractors may cause us to lose, not be considered for, or to otherwise not receive, business opportunities with government-funded or other agencies or customers. 20 If we fail to estimate accurately the cost of performing certain contracts, we may incur losses on these contracts. Under our fee-for-service contracts, we receive fees based on our interactions with government sponsored clients. To earn a profit on these contracts, we must accurately estimate costs incurred in providing services. Our risk on these contracts is that our client population is not large enough to cover our fixed costs, such as rent and other overhead. Our fee-for-service contracts are not reimbursed on a cost basis and therefore, if we fail to estimate our costs accurately, we may incur losses on these contracts. Additionally, approximately 83% of our non-emergency transportation services revenue is generated under capitated contracts with the remainder generated through fee-for service and fixed cost contracts. Under our capitated contracts, we assume the responsibility of managing the needs of a specific geographic population by contracting out transportation services to local van, cab and ambulance companies on a per ride or per mile basis. We use a “pricing model” to determine applicable contract rates, which take into account factors, such as estimated utilization, state specific data, previous experience in the state and/or with similar services, estimated volume and availability of mass transit. The amount of the fixed monthly per member per month fee is determined in the bidding process but predicated on actual historical transportation data for the subject geographic region (provided by the payer), actuarial work performed in-house as well as by third party actuarial firms and actuarial analyses provided by the payer. If the utilization of our services is more than we estimated, the contract may not be profitable. Approximately 19.3% and 18.6% of our Social Services segment revenues or approximately 7.4% and 6.0% of our consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2012, respectively, were derived from cost based service contracts for which we record revenue based on a combination of direct costs, indirect overhead allocations, and stated contractual margins on those costs, which puts us at risk that we may be required to subsequently refund a portion of the excess funds, if any. Our cost based service contracts require us to allow for contingencies such as budgeted costs not incurred, excess cost per service over the allowable contract rate and/or an insufficient number of encounters. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2012, revenues from these contracts represented approximately 7.4% and 6.0% of our total revenues for the respective period. In cases where funds paid to us exceed the allowable costs to provide services under the contracts, we may be required to pay back the excess funds. Our results of operations will continue to fluctuate due to seasonality. Our quarterly operating results and operating cash flows normally fluctuate as a result of seasonal variations in our business. In our Social Services operating segment, lower client demand for our home and community based services during the holiday and summer seasons generally results in lower revenue during those periods; however, our expenses related to the Social Services operating segment do not vary significantly with these changes. As a result, our Social Services operating segment experiences lower operating margins during the holiday and summer seasons. Our NET Services operating segment also experiences fluctuations in demand for our non-emergency transportation services during the summer, winter and holiday seasons. Due to higher demand in the summer months and lower demand in the winter and holiday seasons, coupled with a fixed revenue stream based on a per member per month based structure, our NET Services operating segment experiences lower operating margins in the summer season and higher operating margins in the winter and holiday seasons. We expect quarterly fluctuations in operating results and operating cash flows to continue as a result of the seasonal demand for our home and community based services and non-emergency transportation services. As we enter new markets, we could be subject to additional seasonal variations along with any competitive response by other social services and transportation providers. 21 Our reported financial results could suffer if there is an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. Goodwill may be impaired if the estimated fair value of one or more of our reporting units is less than the carrying value of the respective reporting unit. Because we have grown in part through acquisitions, goodwill and other intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets. We perform an analysis on our goodwill balances to test for impairment on an annual basis. Similarly, interim impairment tests may also be required in advance of our annual impairment test if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value, including goodwill, of one or more of our reporting units below the reporting unit’s carrying value. Such circumstances could include but are not limited to: (1) loss of significant contracts, (2) a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the climate of our business, (3) unanticipated competition, or (4) an adverse action or assessment by a regulator. For example, as discussed in more detail below in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition”, given the reorganization of the service delivery system in British Columbia, Canada, during 2012, we determined that events, referred to as triggering events, had occurred during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012 that would require us to perform an interim period goodwill impairment test as of September 30, 2012. Based on the results of our interim asset impairment test as of September 30, 2012 and our annual asset impairment test completed as of December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, we determined that none of our goodwill was impaired as of such dates. However, if events occur or circumstances change, we may be required to record an impairment adjustment to our goodwill or other intangible assets which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. While we obtain some of our business through responses to government requests for proposals, we may not be awarded contracts through this process in the future, and contracts we are awarded may not be profitable. We obtain, and will continue to seek to obtain, a significant portion of our business from state or local government entities. To obtain business from government entities, we are often required to respond to requests for proposals, or RFPs. To propose effectively, we must accurately estimate our cost structure for servicing a proposed contract, the time required to establish operations and the terms of the proposals submitted by competitors. We must also assemble and submit a large volume of information within rigid and often short timetables. Our ability to respond successfully to RFPs will greatly impact our business. We may not be awarded contracts through the RFP process, and our proposals may not result in profitable contracts. If we fail to establish and maintain important relationships with officials of government entities and agencies, we may not be able to successfully procure or retain government-sponsored contracts, which could negatively impact our revenues. To facilitate our ability to procure or retain government-sponsored contracts, we rely in part on establishing and maintaining relationships with officials of various government entities and agencies. These relationships enable us to provide informal input and advice to the government entities and agencies prior to the development of an RFP or program for privatization of social services and enhance our chances of procuring contracts with these payers. The effectiveness of our relationships may be reduced or eliminated with changes in the personnel holding various government offices or staff positions. We also may lose key personnel who have these relationships. We may be unable to successfully manage our relationships with government entities and agencies and with elected officials and appointees. Any failure to establish, maintain or manage relationships with government and agency personnel may hinder our ability to procure or retain government-sponsored contracts. The federal government may refuse to grant consents and/or waivers necessary to permit for-profit entities to perform certain elements of government programs. Under current law, in order to privatize certain functions of government programs, the federal government must grant a consent and/or waiver to the petitioning state or local agency. If the federal government does not grant a necessary consent or waiver or withdraw approval of any granted waiver, the state or local agency will be 22 unable to contract with a for-profit entity, such as us, to provide service. Failure by state or local agencies to obtain consents and/or waivers could adversely affect our continued business and future growth. Our business could be adversely affected by future legislative changes that hinder or reverse the privatization of social services. The market for our services depends largely on federal, state and local legislative programs. These programs can be modified or amended at any time. Moreover, part of our growth strategy includes aggressively pursuing opportunities created by the federal, state and local initiatives to privatize the delivery of social services. However, there are opponents to the privatization of social services and, as a result, future privatization of social services is uncertain. If additional privatization initiatives are not proposed or enacted, or if previously enacted privatization initiatives are challenged, repealed or invalidated, our growth could be adversely impacted. Our strategic relationships with certain not-for-profit and tax exempt entities are subject to tax and other risks. Since some government agencies in certain of our markets prefer or require contracts for privatized social services to be administered through not-for-profit organizations, we rely on our long-term relationships with not-for-profit organizations to provide services to these government agencies. We currently maintain strategic relationships with 15 not-for-profit social services organizations with which we have management contracts of varying lengths, 13 of which are federally tax exempt organizations. Our strategic relationships with tax exempt not-for-profit organizations are similar to those in the hospital management industry where tax exempt or faith based not-for-profit hospitals are managed by for-profit companies. Federal tax law requires that the boards of directors of not-for-profit tax exempt organizations be independent. The boards of directors of the tax exempt not-for-profit organizations for which we provide management services have a majority of independent members. The board members are predominately selected from independent members of the local community in which the not-for-profit entity operates. Decisions regarding our business relationships with these not-for-profit entities are made by their independent board members including approving the management fees we charge to manage their organizations and any discretionary bonuses. Federal tax law also requires that the management fees we charge the not-for-profit entities we manage be fixed and at fair market rates. Typically a fairness opinion is obtained by the not-for-profit entities we manage from an independent third party valuation consultant that substantiates the fair market rates. If the Internal Revenue Service determined that any tax exempt organization was paying more than market rates for services performed by us, the managed entity could lose its tax exempt status and owe back taxes and penalties. Generally, under state law, not-for-profit entities may pay no more than reasonable compensation for services rendered. If the compensation paid to us by these not-for-profit entities is deemed unreasonable, then the state could take action against the not-for-profit entity which could adversely affect us. Government unions may oppose privatizing government programs to outside vendors such as us, which could limit our market opportunities. Our success depends in part on our ability to win contracts to administer and manage programs traditionally administered by government employees. Many government employees, however, belong to labor unions with considerable financial resources and lobbying networks. These unions could apply political pressure on legislators and other officials seeking to privatize government programs. Union opposition could result in our losing government contracts or being precluded from providing services under government contracts or maintaining or renewing existing contracts. 23 Inaccurate, misleading or negative media coverage could damage our reputation and harm our ability to procure government sponsored contracts. The media sometimes provides news coverage about our contracts and the services we provide to clients. This media coverage, if negative, could influence government officials to slow the pace of privatizing government services. Moreover, inaccurate, misleading or negative media coverage about us could harm our reputation and, accordingly, our ability to obtain government sponsored contracts. We may incur costs before receiving related revenues, which could result in cash shortfalls. When we are awarded a contract to provide services, we may incur expenses before we receive any contract payments. These expenses include leasing office space, purchasing office equipment and hiring personnel. As a result, in certain large contracts where the government does not fund program start-up costs, we may be required to invest significant sums of money before receiving related contract payments. In addition, payments due to us from payers may be delayed due to billing cycles or as a result of failures to approve government budgets in a timely manner. Moreover, especially under fee for service arrangements, any resulting cash shortfall could be exacerbated if we fail to either invoice the payer or to collect our fee in a timely manner. Our business is subject to risks of litigation. We are in the social services and non-emergency transportation services businesses which are subject to lawsuits and claims. A substantial award could have a material adverse impact on our operations and cash flow and could adversely impact our ability to continue to purchase appropriate liability insurance. We can be subject to claims for negligence or intentional misconduct (in addition to professional liability type claims) by an employee or a third party we engage to assist with the provision of services, including but not limited to, claims arising out of accidents involving vehicle collisions, and various claims that could result from employees or contracted third parties driving to or from interactions with clients and while providing direct client services. We are also subject to claims alleging we did not properly treat an individual or failed to properly diagnose and/or care for a client. We can be subject to employee related claims such as wrongful discharge or discrimination or a violation of equal employment law and permitting issues. While we are insured for these types of claims, damages exceeding our insurance limits or outside our insurance coverage, such as a claim for fraud, certain wage and hour violations or punitive damages, could adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition. Furthermore, we can be subject to miscellaneous errors and omissions liability relative to the various management agreements we have with the not-for-profit entities we manage. In the event of a claim and depending on, among other things, the circumstances, allegations, and size of the management contract, we could be subject to damages that could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our use of a reinsurance program to cover certain claims for losses suffered and costs or expenses incurred could negatively impact our business. We are reinsured with regard to a substantial portion of our general liability, professional liability and workers’ compensation insurance. We also reinsure the general liability, professional liability, workers’ compensation insurance, and automobile liability of certain designated affiliated entities and independent third party transportation providers over various policy years under reinsurance programs through our two wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiaries. Although, effective February 15, 2011, we did not renew our reinsurance agreement and will not assume liabilities for policies that cover the general liability, automobile liability, and automobile physical damage coverage of our independent third party transportation providers after that date, we will continue to administer existing policies for the foreseeable future and resolve remaining and future claims related to these policies. In the event that actual reinsured losses increase unexpectedly or exceed actuarially determined estimated reinsured losses under the program, the aggregate of such losses could materially increase 24 our liability and adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity, cash flows and results of operations. In addition, as the availability to us of certain traditional insurance coverage diminishes or increases in cost, we will continue to evaluate the levels and types of insurance we include in our self-insurance program. Any increase to this program increases our risk exposure and therefore increases the risk of a possible material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, cash flows and results of operations. We could be subject to significant state regulation and potential sanctions if our health care benefits program is deemed to be a multiple employer welfare arrangement. For the purpose of managing and providing employee healthcare benefits we deem ourselves to be a single employer under Section 3(5) of ERISA with regard to our own employees as well as the employees of certain of our managed entities covered by our healthcare benefit program to whom we offered healthcare benefits through June 2007. The Department of Labor or individual states could disagree with our interpretation and consider our program to be a multiple employer welfare arrangement, or MEWA, and, as such, subject to regulation by state insurance commissions. If involuntarily deemed a MEWA, our cost to manage the state-by-state regulatory environment for the self-funded portion of our health insurance program would be prohibitive and we could, as a result, elect to maintain our self-funded health insurance plan only for our owned entities, forcing the three managed entities currently included in our self-funded plan to negotiate and purchase their own health benefits. In addition, if our health care benefits program is determined to be a MEWA, civil and/or criminal sanctions are possible. We face substantial competition in attracting and retaining experienced professionals, particularly social service professionals with respect to our social services and intellectual technology professionals with respect to our non-emergency transportation services, and we may be unable to grow our business if we cannot attract and retain qualified employees. Our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified and experienced social services professionals who possess the skills and experience necessary to deliver high quality services to our clients. Our objective of providing the highest quality of service to our clients is strongly considered when we evaluate education, experience and qualifications of potential candidates for employment as direct care and administrative staff. To that end, we attempt to hire professionals who have attained a bachelor’s degree, master’s degree or higher level of education and certification or licensure as direct care social services providers and administrators. These employees are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. We must quickly hire project leaders and case management personnel after a contract is awarded to us. Contract provisions and client needs determine the number, education and experience levels of social services professionals we hire. We continually evaluate client census, case loads and client eligibility to determine our staffing needs under each contract. Our performance in our non-emergency transportation services business largely depends on the talents and efforts of our highly skilled intellectual technology professionals. Competition for skilled intellectual technology professionals can be intense. Our success depends on our ability to recruit, retain and motivate these individuals. Our ability to attract and retain employees with the requisite experience and skills depends on several factors including, but not limited to, our ability to offer competitive wages, benefits and professional growth opportunities. Some of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater financial, technical, political and marketing resources, name recognition and a larger number of clients and payers than we do. The inability to attract and retain experienced personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success depends on our ability to manage growing and changing operations. Since 1996, our business has grown significantly in size and complexity. This growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, significant demands on our management, systems, internal controls and financial 25 and physical resources. In addition, we expect that we will need to further develop our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems to accommodate future growth. This could require us to incur expenses for hiring additional qualified personnel, retaining professionals to assist in developing the appropriate control systems and expanding our information technology infrastructure. The nature of our business is such that qualified management personnel can be difficult to find. Our inability to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Any acquisition that we undertake could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and harm our operating results. We have made, and anticipate that we will continue making strategic acquisitions as part of our growth strategy. We have made a number of acquisitions since our inception. The success of these and other acquisitions depends in part on our ability to integrate acquired companies into our business operations. There can be no assurance that the companies acquired will continue to generate income at the same historical levels on which we based our acquisition decisions, that we will be able to maintain or renew the acquired companies’ contracts, that we will be able to realize operating and economic efficiencies upon integration of acquired companies, or that the acquisitions will not adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We continually review opportunities to acquire other businesses that would complement our current services, expand our markets or otherwise offer growth opportunities. In connection with our acquisition strategy, we could issue stock that would dilute existing stockholders’ percentage ownership and/or we could incur or assume substantial debt or assume contingent liabilities. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • problems assimilating the purchased operations; • unanticipated costs and known and unknown legal or financial liabilities associated with an acquisition and an acquired entity; • diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with customers; • entering markets in which we have limited or no experience; • potential loss of key employees of purchased organizations; • the incurrence of excessive leverage in financing an acquisition; • failure to maintain and renew contracts; • unanticipated operating, accounting or management difficulties in connection with an acquisition; and • dilution to our earnings per share. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming problems encountered in connection with any acquisition and our inability to do so could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business. Our success depends on our ability to compete effectively in the marketplace. In our Social Services segment, we compete for clients and for contracts with a variety of organizations that offer similar services. Most of our competition consists of local social services organizations that compete with us for local contracts such as United Way supported agencies and faith-based agencies such as Catholic Social Services, Jewish Family and Children’s Services and the Salvation Army. Other competitors include local not-for-profit organizations and community based organizations. Historically, these types of organizations have been favored in our industry as incumbent providers of services to government entities. We also compete with larger companies, such as Res-Care, Inc., which provides support services, training and educational programs 26 predominantly to Medicaid eligible beneficiaries. National Mentor, Inc. is the country’s largest provider of foster care services and competes with us in existing markets for foster care services. In addition, many institutional providers offer some type of community based care including such organizations as The GEO Group, Inc. and The Devereaux Foundation. Some of these companies have greater financial, technical, political, marketing, name recognition and other resources and a larger number of clients and/or payers than we do. In addition, some of these companies offer more services than we do. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, competition from new entrants into the markets in which we operate our social services business. Increased competition may result in pricing pressures, loss of or failure to gain market share or loss of clients or payers, any of which could harm our business. We compete with a variety of organizations that provide similar non-emergency transportation services to Medicaid eligible beneficiaries in local markets such as American Medical Response, Coordinated Transportation Solutions, Inc., First Transit, Inc., Medical Transportation Management Inc., MV Transportation, Inc., and Southeast Trans. Our competitors largely compete for smaller-scale contract opportunities that encompass smaller geographic areas. For example, most of our competitors seek to win contracts for specific counties, whereas we seek to win contracts for the entire state. If these competitors begin to compete on a larger scale basis, it could result in pricing pressures, loss of or failure to gain market share or loss of clients or payers, any of which could harm our business. Our business is subject to state licensing regulations and other regulatory provisions, including regulatory provisions governing surveys, and audits and changes to or violations of these regulations could negatively impact our revenues. In many of the locations where we operate, we are required by state law to obtain and maintain licenses. The applicable state and local licensing requirements govern the services we provide, the credentials of staff, record keeping, treatment planning, client monitoring and supervision of staff. The failure to maintain these licenses or the loss of a license could have a material adverse impact on our business and could prevent us from providing services to clients in a given jurisdiction. Most of our contracts are subject to surveys or audit by our payers. We are also subject to regulations that restrict our ability to contract directly with a government agency in certain situations. Such restrictions could affect our ability to contract with certain payers. Our business is subject to security breaches and attacks. We provide social services and therefore our information technology systems store customer information protected by numerous federal and state regulations. Since our systems include interfaces to third-party stakeholders, often connected via the Internet, we are subject to cybersecurity risks. The nature of our business, where services are often performed outside a secured location, adds additional risk. While we have implemented measures to detect and prevent security breaches and cyber-attacks, our measures may not be effective. Any security breach or loss of data could adversely affect our business and, as a result, we could incur liability, regulatory actions, fines or litigation. Our international operations expose us to various risks, any number of which could harm our business. We operate in Canada through our wholly-owned subsidiary, WCG International Consultants Ltd., and as a result, we are subject to the risks inherent in conducting business across national boundaries, any one of which could adversely impact our business. In addition to currency fluctuations, these risks include, among other things: • economic downturns; • changes in or interpretations of local law, governmental policy or regulation; • restrictions on the transfer of funds into or out of the country; • varying tax systems; 27 • delays from doing business with governmental agencies; • nationalization of foreign assets; and • government protectionism. One or more of the foregoing factors could impair our current or future operations and, as a result, harm our overall business. We may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws, and any determination that we violated any of these laws could have an adverse effect on our business. Our operations outside the United States are subject to the U.S. and foreign anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA. Generally, the FCPA prohibits us from providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of influencing official decisions or obtaining or retaining business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment, and requires companies to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately reflect the transactions of the company. We have established policies and procedures designed to assist us and our personnel to comply with applicable U.S. and international laws and regulations. However, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will effectively prevent us from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage, and such a violation could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Increased competition in British Columbia, Canada due to the service delivery system reorganization in 2012 could hinder our ability to gain new business and negatively impact our revenues related to our international operations. As part of the service delivery system reorganization that took place in British Columbia during 2012, all of the contracts for services in this market expired and new contracts were put up for bid. The new contracts combined federal and provincial funding streams and services which were previously contracted separately. As a result, WCG is experiencing an increase in competition as providers who contract for federal dollars have entered the market in which WCG operates. To date, due primarily to an increased level of competition and a decrease in the number of services funded in British Columbia, WCG has been unable to regain the level of business it enjoyed prior to the reorganization of the service delivery system. Increased competition in this market may result in pricing pressures, loss of or failure to gain market share or loss of clients or payers, any of which could further harm our international business. We operate in multiple tax jurisdictions and we are taxable in most of them and face the risk of double taxation if one jurisdiction does not acquiesce to the tax claims of another jurisdiction. We currently operate in the United States and Canada and are subject to income taxes in those countries and the specific states and/or provinces where we operate. In the event one taxing jurisdiction disagrees with another taxing jurisdiction, we could experience temporary or permanent double taxation and increased professional fees to resolve taxation matters. Rising gasoline prices can result in higher unit cost paid to our subcontracted network as well as higher utilization of our non-emergency transportation services which could negatively impact our operating margins. During 2012, our NET Services segment experienced an increase in utilization of our non-emergency transportation services as compared to prior periods partially due to rising gasoline prices. Rising gasoline prices result in more clients utilizing our non-emergency transportation services as they are unable to economically sustain transportation of their own, which may result in increased costs and levels of service required under our capitated contracts, resulting in a loss of profitability in the segment. In addition, rising gasoline prices could 28 result in increased non-emergency transportation costs as we may not be able to pass on the costs charged by transportation providers with whom we subcontract. Sustained increases in gasoline prices could adversely affect our operating margins. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 