Item 1A. Risk Factors Proposed Merger Transaction As previously disclosed on the Company’s current report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 12, 2010, the Company entered into that certain agreement and plan of merger by and among the Company, BHE Holdings Inc. and BHE Holding Sub One Inc., dated as of March 12, 2010 (the “Merger Agreement”), whereby BHE Holding Sub One Inc. will merge with and into the Company, with the Company as the surviving entity. Stockholders of the Company will receive $45.00 for each share of common stock of the Company in the transaction. The Board voted to recommend to the Company’s shareholders that they approve the merger agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby at the annual meeting. 5 Table of Contents The conditions to the Merger may fail to be satisfied or the Agreement may be terminated in accordance with its terms, either of which events could negatively affect the Company. The Merger Agreement is subject to a number of conditions that must be fulfilled in order to obligate the parties to close the merger. Those conditions include: regulatory approval of the merger by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the Maine Public Utilities Commission, and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the expiration of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act, shareholder approval of the merger, the continued accuracy of certain representations and warranties by both parties and the performance by both parties of certain covenants and agreements. There can be no assurance that the conditions to closing the merger will be fulfilled or that the merger will be completed. In addition, the Merger Agreement can be terminated in accordance with its terms. The consequences of a failure to satisfy the closing conditions or a termination of the Merger Agreement could include: • in certain circumstances, MAM may be required to pay a termination fee of approximately $2 million (plus expense reimbursement of up to $1 million) to BHE Holdings Inc.; • the Company’s businesses may have been adversely impacted by the failure to pursue other beneficial opportunities due to the focus of management on the merger, without realizing any of the anticipated benefits of completing the merger; • the market price of the Company common stock might decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the merger will be completed; • another party may not be willing to pay an equivalent or more attractive price than the price BHE Holdings Inc. has agreed to pay in the merger. Any one or more of these events could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to the completion of the proposed merger may have a negative impact on our operating results. We have agreed to certain restrictions on the conduct of our business in connection with the proposed merger that require us to conduct our business only in the ordinary course, subject to specific limitations. We have also agreed not to take certain specified actions without BHE Holdings Inc.’s consent. These restrictions may delay or prevent us from undertaking business opportunities that may arise pending completion of the transaction. We are facing legal challenges over our decision to enter into the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. On March 16, 2010, a purported class action lawsuit related to the merger, captioned Duplisea v. Maine & Maritimes Corporation, et al. was filed in the Maine Superior Court, Aroostook County, against MAM and each of its directors individually, alleging breach of fiduciary duty in connection with the proposed sale of MAM to BHE Holdings Inc. The action seeks to enjoin the proposed sale, and does not seek financial penalties from the Company. The Company will vigorously contest this action. The Company cannot predict the outcome at this time. Regulation and Legislation MPS is a regulated utility, operating its distribution activity under the jurisdiction of the Maine Public Utilities Commission and transmission activity under the jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. The MPUC and FERC regulate the rates MPS is allowed to charge its customers. This includes determination of our allowed rate of return and rate structure, construction and operation of facilities, approval of depreciation and amortization rates and recovery of certain incremental costs, such as storm damage. The timing of rate changes and the results of regulatory proceedings could materially impact our results. 6 Table of Contents MPS adjusts its transmission rates annually; the most recent change was on July 1, 2009. MPS and transmission ratepayers reached settlement on the rates and formula changes. However, the final approval of the 2009 transmission rate settlement is not yet complete, and may result in an adjustment during 2010. Distribution and stranded cost rates did not change during 2009. In 2010, MPS anticipates the annual adjustments to its transmission rates on July 1, 2010. The change in any rates could have a positive or negative impact on earnings and cash flow, but the ultimate impact is unknown at this time. Stranded cost rates, under the Order in MPUC Docket No. 2009-323, did not change for the new 2-year rate effective period which began January 1, 2010. MPS is considering its costs and whether or not to file for new distribution rates in 2010. MPS is also subject to local regulations, which may impact the location of our transmission and distribution facilities, and our ability to make repairs and upgrades to our facilities. Other changes in legislation and regulation could impact MAM’s earnings and operations positively or negatively. Such changes could include changes in tax rates or changes in environmental or workplace laws. Construction of New Transmission Facilities As previously reported, MPS, working with CMP, has been seeking to develop the Maine Power Connection transmission line project (“MPC” or the “Project”). As originally proposed, the Project would include a 200-mile 345 kilovolt transmission line and new and upgraded substations to connect northern Maine to the ISO-NE control area. MPS became involved with this project coincident with a system impact study at ISO-NE. Interconnection requests in connection with proposed new generation projects triggered the study. Since the initial filings, MPS and CMP have reevaluated the physical scope of the project, and are considering alternative means of constructing a transmission line to allow MPS to interconnect its system with the New England Grid and to support renewable energy projects in its service territory. The Project and any of its alternatives depend on, among other factors, (i) the development of additional generation and the needs of generators in our service territory, and (ii) one of the following developments – (a) MPS joins ISO-NE and ISO-NE socializes the line, or (b) one or more generators agree to pay for the line. The inability to obtain regional socialization or agreements with generators, each on terms acceptable to MPS and CMP, is likely to have an impact on whether MPS and CMP construct the line, whether as originally proposed or in any alternative form. Other factors, such as cost and availability of materials, labor and subcontractors, may increase the cost of the project or delay its completion. Other companies have proposed competing lines to the MPC project. One proposal has been submitted to the MPUC. Any of these could threaten the development of the MPC line by MPS and CMP. MPS will aggressively defend its franchise service territory rights against these and other developments in its territory but can give no assurances it will be successful. Financing Risk for New Transmission Facilities Assuming new transmission facilities are approved for construction, the Company will be seeking financing to fund construction. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to raise the capital to construct new transmission facilities given, among other factors, (a) the uncertainty of financial markets which continues to exist, and (b) the size of the proposed project. Further, as described above, the final design, length and cost of the line would vary significantly depending on which option, if any, is ultimately developed. Other financing risks, including the type and cost of financing, are also risks in the development of this line. Risk from Joint Development Agreement The Joint Development Agreement, which MPS entered into with CMP on October 2, 2008 in connection with the MPC project, sets forth numerous conditions for continued MPS participation in the Project. Failure to 7 Table of Contents meet such conditions in a timely fashion can result in various consequences, including a reduction in, or elimination of, the interest which MPS may acquire in the Project. Reference is made to such Agreement, which was an exhibit to the MAM 8-K filed on October 8, 2008, for details of such conditions and consequences. Contract Risks at MAM USG There are risks when MAM USG secures contracts. Such risks include inaccuracy of cost estimates on fixed rate projects, change order approval risks, professional liability for engineering services and warranty risk. Also, as a subcontractor on these jobs, we are responsible for meeting manufacturer design and construction specifications for certain equipment, according to our contracts. There is a risk of liability if these specifications are not met. Factors mitigating these risks include Management’s experience with estimating utility engineering and construction costs, professional liability insurance coverage, and coordination with manufacturers to meet or waive these specifications. Attraction and Retention of Qualified Employees MPS and MAM USG heavily depend on the attraction and retention of qualified employees, including engineers and electricians. MAM maintains competitive wage and benefits packages for its employees, as well as certain third-party contractor arrangements to mitigate this risk. The inability to access enough qualified employees could result in deterioration of MPS’s service quality and MAM USG’s ability to compete in the marketplace. Economy of the Region and General Economic Conditions MPS operates in a territory restricted to Aroostook County and northern Penobscot County, Maine. Our business follows the economy of the region we serve. Since 2007, we have experienced slower collections and an increase in uncollectible accounts during 2008 and 2009. MPS has adjusted its reserve for uncollectible accounts based on the current indicators, and we will continue to closely monitor collection rates. Limited population growth and economic expansion in the region could also negatively impact the utility’s ability to maintain their customer base. Potato farming and processing and the manufacturing of forest products, principally lumber, plywood, and oriented strand board, continue to be dominant economic forces within MPS’s service area. Temporary plant shutdowns and slow economic growth can reduce our earnings. Potential renewable energy and other generation projects in our service territory may mitigate these factors. Also, MPS participates in APP, a public/private partnership for economic progress. The efforts of APP are intended to increase the area’s emphasis on economic development. MAM USG also depends heavily on economic conditions. The development of windfarms depends on, among other things: • the economics of wind generation compared to oil-based and other types of generation, • the ability of the developer to secure financing, • the ability of the developer to secure contracts for sale of the output of the windfarm, • the existence of sufficient transmission capacity for the entire route between the windfarm and the power purchaser, and • the ability of the developer to obtain the necessary approvals and permits for siting the windfarm. MAM USG also performs other types of electrical design and construction, which are dependent primarily on the expansion of manufacturing and utility facilities. These expansions are also subject to, among other things, cost-benefit analysis by the owners and by their ability to secure financing. 8 Table of Contents Competitive Conditions Except for consumers served by municipal electric utilities within MPS’s service area, MPS has a nearly exclusive franchise to deliver electric energy in its service territory, defined as all of Aroostook County, Maine, and a portion of northern Penobscot County, Maine. MPS currently has little exposure to risk from competition. Legislation has been proposed to change the process for siting transmission lines, with the potential for siting transmission corridors through the host utility’s service territory. MPS will continue to aggressively defend its rights to its franchise service territory, but cannot predict with certainty if those rights will be enforced. MAM USG operates in competitive markets and does not have an exclusive franchise. Competition for contracts comes from local and regional electrical engineering firms, and utility construction contractors. Holding Company Structure MAM is a holding company whose main assets are its investments in its subsidiaries, particularly MPS. The Company’s ability to pay dividends on common stock and satisfy required principal and interest payments on outstanding debt obligations depends on dividends from subsidiaries. There are regulatory restrictions on the amount of dividends MPS is allowed to pay MAM, particularly a provision limiting these dividends to 100% of the two-year rolling average of MPS’s net income. However, this limitation does not apply to the stranded cost free cash flows. Financing Risks MAM and its subsidiaries have financial and other covenants on their financing arrangements. In the event of a default, the lenders could require immediate repayment of the debt. A default could also trigger increases in interest rates and difficulty obtaining other sources of financing. A default by MPS also triggers cross-default provisions with the MAM USG debt agreement. The Company was in compliance with all debt covenants as of December 31, 2009. MAM and MPS have interest rate risk due to variable interest rates on financing arrangements. The Company has mitigated a portion of this risk by fixing interest rates on two MPS variable rate debt issues with two interest rate swaps. These swaps expose MPS to counterparty credit risk through these swaps. A default by Bank of America would return MPS to the original variable rates. Bank of America approval is required before the Company or its subsidiaries may obtain new financing. MPS is also required to obtain approval from the MPUC prior to obtaining new financing. This approval has not been an obstacle to obtaining financing in the past; however, the Company cannot predict whether or not approval will be granted going forward. MAM USG’s business development partly depends on its ability to secure bonding capacity. MAM USG has the option of using some or all of its $4.0 million line of credit as a letter of credit to secure bonding. With limited assets and limited access to letters of credit, MAM USG may not be able to accept projects on which it is required to provide bonding. Pension Plan Investments The MPS Pension Plan holds equity and fixed income investments. Changes in the stock market and accounting standards can materially impact MPS’s assets and obligations under this plan, including the Plan’s impact on future expense and cash flows. The Company has partly mitigated its risk through the freeze of future salary and service accruals under the Company’s Pension Plan, which went into effect on December 31, 2006. Information Technology Problems with computers and technology could result in billing errors or unintentional release of confidential consumer information. MAM goes to significant lengths to test its systems and protect against such events; however, the Company cannot warrant that such risks do not exist. 9 Table of Contents Climate Change Climate change and climate change legislation have the potential to affect the Company both positively and negatively. Increased demand for and development of renewable generation and the transmission needed to move the output to market could result in additional opportunities for MAM USG in construction and maintenance and for MPS in development of transmission. However, less carbon-based generation could also reduce MPS transmission exports. Environmental Risks MAM, and particularly MPS, bear environmental risks associated with the former ownership of nuclear, diesel and oil-fired generation, as well as the ownership of transformers containing PCB. Further, MPS has potential risks concerning claims related to electro-magnetic fields. While the Company takes significant steps to ensure prudent environmental practices, it cannot assure that risks do not exist from past or future environmental practices. Additionally, while the Company does not believe electro-magnetic fields represent a current danger because it does not own bulk transmission, it cannot warrant that claims could not be filed. If the MPC Project is built, the Company will become a part owner of a bulk transmission line. Aging Infrastructure and Reliability MPS has risks associated with aging infrastructure assets that may, in some instances, be beyond the useful life of the asset. The failure of such assets could result in the loss of power, which could result in harm to property or person, increased expenses and/or a reduction in revenue. MPS mitigates these risks through several programs, but cannot warrant that outages will not occur. MPS expanded its vegetation management program during 2009 and expects to do more in 2010 to lower the risk of vegetation-related outages. MPS works diligently through on-site inspection and testing programs to ensure the integrity of its infrastructure. MPS maintains substantial back-up equipment and the capability to repair or rebuild such assets in a timely manner, including the maintenance of mobile transformers. MPS also increased its capital expenditures since 2006 to address this risk. Weather MPS’s electric wires infrastructure is at risk to natural phenomena, especially those caused by the weather. Storms, such as ice storms and major winter snow storms, may have an impact on the integrity of MPS’s infrastructure assets in the field, requiring incremental maintenance expense or loss of potential earnings due to outages. Vandalism, Terrorism and Other Illegal Acts MPS is subject to the risks of damage to others’ properties or human harm due to the failure of infrastructure. While MPS exercises diligent asset management and asset inspections, it cannot warrant that such risks can be fully eliminated. MPS and its electric wires and information technology infrastructure are also particularly at risk for vandalism and acts of terrorism. While the Company takes steps to protect against such illegal acts through various risk insurance policies and other protective measures, including restricting access to assets, it cannot warrant that they will not happen. This risk also applies to certain third-party generation and other electrical facilities. As a transmission and distribution company, MPS is allowed to charge ratepayers for only the use of its lines and other transmission and distribution facilities. MPS bases this rate largely on energy consumption. An SOS or CES supplies the energy. The energy supplier facilities are subject to the same sort of risks as MPS facilities, including extreme weather conditions, breakdowns, acts of terrorism and other occurrences that could impact the availability of supply and, in turn, MPS’s revenue. Alternative Generation Options MPS faces technology and product substitution risks associated with the evolution of distributed generation, non-utility generation, and other alternative fuel forms. The primary risk in this area is non-utility generation, 10 Table of Contents with which the utility has successfully competed to date. However, as electric commodity prices increase, the viability of alternative fuel from non-utility generation may become more practical. Such projects could result in reduced usage of MPS’s delivery system. Professional Liability MAM, through its former engineering services firm TMG and its subsidiaries, remains subject to risks associated with engineering design errors and/or omissions. The sales of TMGC assets and the closure of TMGNE operations eliminated exposure on future projects, but MAM could still be liable for errors and omissions on past projects for several years. The Company carries insurance to mitigate these risks. As noted above, MAM USG provides construction, engineering and design services in connection with electric generation infrastructure projects, and, therefore, is subject to similar risks. 