ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We may not be able to implement successfully our plans for growth. We have operated out of our main office and two drive-through facilities in Morristown, Tennessee since 1963 and have historically considered Hamblen County to be our primary market area. In 2006, our management began to implement a growth strategy that expands our presence in Morristown, as well as into Knoxville, Tennessee, approximately 40 miles southwest of Morristown. In addition, with our acquisition of State of Franklin Bancshares in October 2008, we also expanded our presence into the Tri-Cities region market area comprised of Johnson City, Tennessee, Kingsport, Tennessee and Bristol, Virginia. Our expansion strategy may not be accretive to earnings within a reasonable period of time. Numerous factors will affect our expansion strategy, such as our ability to select suitable office locations, real estate acquisition costs, competition, interest rates, managerial resources, our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel, the effectiveness of our marketing strategy and our ability to attract deposits. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in increasing the volume of our loans and deposits by expanding our lending and branch network. Building and staffing new offices will increase our operating expenses. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to manage the costs and implementation risks associated with this strategy so that expansion of our lending and branch network will be profitable. A continuation of recent turmoil in the financial markets could have an adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Beginning in 2008, United States and global financial markets have experienced severe disruption and volatility, and general economic conditions have declined significantly. Adverse developments in credit quality, asset values and revenue opportunities throughout the financial services industry, as well as general uncertainty regarding the economic, industry and regulatory environment, have had a marked negative impact on the industry. Dramatic declines in the U.S. housing market over the past eighteen months, with falling home prices, increasing foreclosures and increasing unemployment, have negatively affected the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by many financial institutions. The United States and the governments of other countries have taken steps to try to stabilize the financial system, including investing in financial institutions, and have also been working to design and implement programs to improve general economic conditions. Notwithstanding the actions of the United States and other governments, there can be no assurances that these efforts will be successful in restoring industry, economic or market conditions and that they will not result in adverse unintended consequences. Factors that could continue to pressure financial services companies, including the Company, are numerous and include (1) worsening credit quality, leading among other things to increases in loan losses and reserves, (2) continued or worsening disruption and volatility in financial markets, leading among other things to continuing reductions in asset values, (3) capital and liquidity concerns regarding financial institutions generally, (4) limitations resulting from or imposed in connection with governmental actions intended to stabilize or provide additional regulation of the financial system, or (5) recessionary conditions that are deeper or last longer than currently anticipated. 15 Table of Contents The current economic recession could result in increases in our level of non-performing loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which would lead to lower revenue, higher loan losses and lower earnings. Our business activities and earnings are affected by general business conditions in the United States and in our local market area. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, unemployment levels, monetary supply, consumer confidence and spending, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets and the strength of the economy in the United States generally and in our market area in particular. In the current recession, the national economy has experienced general economic downturns, with rising unemployment levels, declines in real estate values and an erosion in consumer confidence. A prolonged or more severe economic downturn, continued elevated levels of unemployment, further declines in the values of real estate, or other events that affect household and/or corporate incomes could impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans in accordance with their terms. Nearly all of our loans are secured by real estate or made to businesses in our market areas. As a result of this concentration, a prolonged or more severe downturn in the local economy could result in significant increases in nonperforming loans, which would negatively impact our interest income and result in higher provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our earnings. The economic downturn could also result in reduced demand for credit or fee-based products and services, which would hurt our revenues. Special FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. Beginning in late 2008, the economic environment caused higher levels of bank failures, which dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the FDIC has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. The base assessment rate was increased by seven basis points (7 cents for every $100 of deposits) for the first quarter of 2009. Effective April 1, 2009, initial base assessment rates were changed to range from 12 basis points to 45 basis points across all risk categories with possible adjustments to these rates based on certain specified factors. These increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and will negatively impact our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions due to recent bank and savings association failures. The emergency assessment amounts to 5 basis points on each institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, subject to a maximum equal to 10 basis points times the institution’s assessment base. The assessment will be collected on September 30, 2009. Our special assessment was $309,000. The special assessment will negatively impact our earnings. In addition, the FDIC may impose additional emergency special assessments after June 30, 2009, of up to 5 basis points per quarter on each institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital if necessary to maintain public confidence in federal deposit insurance or as a result of deterioration in the deposit insurance fund reserve ratio due to institution failures. The earliest possible date for imposing any such additional special assessment is September 30, 2009, with collection on December 30, 2009. The latest date possible for imposing any such additional special assessment is December 31, 2009, with collection on March 30, 2010. Any additional emergency special assessment imposed by the FDIC will further hurt our earnings. Changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income and earnings. Our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans and investments less the interest we pay on our deposits and borrowings. Our net interest margin is the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding. Changes in interest rates—up or down—could adversely affect our net interest margin and, as a result, our net interest income. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. Our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the yield catches up. This contraction could be more severe following a prolonged period of lower interest rates, as a larger proportion of our fixed rate residential loan portfolio will have been originated at those lower rates and borrowers may be more reluctant or unable to sell their homes in a higher interest rate environment. Changes in the slope of the “yield curve”—or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates—could 16 Table of Contents also reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, we could experience pressure on our net interest margin as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and at times has forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. At June 30, 2008, which is the most recent date for which data is available from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, we held: (i) 22.15% of the deposits in Hamblen County, which is the second largest market share out of ten financial institutions with offices in the county at that date; (ii) 0.21% of the deposits in the Knoxville, Tennessee, metropolitan statistical area, which is the 26th largest market share out of 43 financial institutions with offices in the metropolitan statistical area at that date; (iii) 6.85% of the deposits in the Johnson City, Tennessee metropolitan statistical area, which is the seventh largest market share out of 21 financial institutions located in the metropolitan statistical area at that date; and (iv) 1.59% of the deposits in the Kingsport, Tennessee-Bristol, Virginia metropolitan statistical area, which is the 16th largest market share out of 28 financial institutions located in the metropolitan statistical area at that date. Banks owned by SunTrust Banks, Inc., First Tennessee National Corporation and Regions Financial Corporation and other large regional bank holding companies also operate in our primary market areas. These institutions are significantly larger than us and, therefore, have significantly greater resources. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. Our commercial real estate, commercial business and multi-family real estate loans expose us to increased lending risks. At June 30, 2009, $239.7 million, or 47.6%, of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate, commercial business and multi-family real estate loans. Commercial real estate and multi-family real estate loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Commercial business loans expose us to additional risks because they typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayments from the cash flow of the borrower’s business and are secured by collateral that may depreciate over time. All three of these types of loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Because such loans generally entail greater risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses in the future to account for the likely increase in probable incurred credit losses associated with the growth of such loans. Also, many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. We may require further additions to our allowance for loan losses, which would reduce net income. If our borrowers do not repay their loans or if the collateral securing their loans is insufficient to provide for the full repayment, we may suffer credit losses. Credit losses are inherent in the lending business and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for loan losses based on a number of factors. If our assumptions and judgments are wrong, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover our losses. In addition, when real estate values decline, the potential severity of loss on a real estate-secured loan can increase significantly, especially in the case of loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios. The recent decline in the national economy and the local economies of the areas in which the loans are concentrated could result in an increase in loan delinquencies, foreclosures or repossessions resulting in increased charge-off amounts and the need for additional loan loss allowances in future periods. If we determine that our allowance for loan losses is 17 Table of Contents insufficient, we would be required to take additional provisions for loan losses, which would reduce net income during the period those provisions are taken. In addition, the Tennessee Department of Financial Institutions and the FDIC periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or to charge off particular loans. The loss of our President and Chief Executive Officer could hurt our operations. We rely heavily on our President and Chief Executive Officer, Anderson L. Smith. The loss of Mr. Smith could have an adverse effect on us because, as a small community bank, Mr. Smith is responsible for more aspects of our business than he might be at a larger financial institution with more employees. Moreover, as a small community bank, we have fewer management-level employees who are in a position to succeed and assume the responsibilities of Mr. Smith. We have entered into a three-year employment agreement with Mr. Smith. We do not have key-man life insurance on Mr. Smith. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Tennessee Department of Financial Institutions, our chartering authority, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of our deposits. As a bank holding company, Jefferson Bancshares is subject to regulation and supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general, which could significantly affect our ability to fund normal operations. In addition, our ability to acquire deposits or borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole as the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations in the domestic and worldwide credit markets deteriorates. Furthermore, Jefferson Bancshares is a separate entity and apart from Jefferson Federal and must provide for its own liquidity. In addition to its operating expenses, Jefferson Bancshares is responsible for the payment of dividends declared for its shareholders, and interest and principal on outstanding debt. Substantially all of Jefferson Bancshares’ revenues are obtained from subsidiary service fees and dividends. Payment of such dividends to Jefferson Bancshares by Jefferson Federal is limited under Tennessee law. The amount that can be paid in any calendar year, without prior approval from the Tennessee Department of Financial Institutions, cannot exceed the total of Jefferson Federal’s net income for the year combined with its retained net income for the preceding two years. The charter and bylaws of Jefferson Bancshares may prevent or make more difficult certain transactions, including a sale or merger of Jefferson Bancshares. Provisions of the charter and bylaws of Jefferson Bancshares may make it more difficult for companies or persons to acquire control of Jefferson Bancshares. Consequently, our shareholders may not have the opportunity to participate in such a transaction and the trading price of our common stock may not rise to the level of other institutions that are more vulnerable to hostile takeovers. In addition, these provisions also make more difficult the removal of current directors or management, or the election of new directors. These provisions include: 18 Table of Contents • supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations and changes to some provisions of the charter and bylaws; • limitation on the right to vote shares; • the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; • provisions regarding the timing and content of shareholder proposals and nominations; • provisions restricting the calling of special meetings of shareholders; • the absence of cumulative voting by shareholders in the election of directors; and • the removal of directors only for cause. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 