Item 1A. Risk Factors In evaluating our company, careful consideration should be given to the following risk factors, in addition to the other information included in this annual report. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business operating results and/or financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our stock. In addition to the following disclosures, please refer to the other information contained in this report including the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS AND OUR PROPERTIES There are inherent risks associated with real estate investments and with the real estate industry, each of which could have an adverse impact on our economic performance and the value of our retail properties. Real estate investments are subject to various risks and fluctuations and cycles in value and demand, many of which are beyond our control. Our economic performance and the value of our properties can be affected by many of these factors, including the following: · adverse changes in financial conditions of buyers, sellers and tenants of our properties, including bankruptcies, financial difficulties, or lease defaults by our tenants; · the national, regional and local economy, which may be negatively impacted by concerns about inflation, deflation and government deficits, high unemployment rates, decreased consumer confidence, industry slowdowns, reduced corporate profits, liquidity concerns in our markets and other adverse business concerns; · local real estate conditions, such as an oversupply of, or a reduction in demand for, retail space or retail goods, and the availability and creditworthiness of current and prospective tenants; · vacancies or ability to rent space on favorable terms, including possible market pressures to offer tenants rent abatements, tenant improvements, early termination rights or below-market renewal options; 7 · changes in operating costs and expenses, including, without limitation, increasing labor and material costs, insurance costs, energy prices, environmental restrictions, real estate taxes, and costs of compliance with laws, regulations and government policies, which we may be restricted from passing on to our tenants; · fluctuations in interest rates, which could adversely affect our ability, or the ability of buyers and tenants of properties, to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all; · competition from other real estate investors with significant capital, including other real estate operating companies, publicly traded REITs and institutional investment funds; · the convenience and quality of competing retail properties and other retailing options such as the Internet; · perceptions by retailers or shoppers of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of the retail property; · inability to collect rent from tenants; · our ability to secure adequate insurance; · our ability to provide adequate management services and to maintain our properties; · changes in, and changes in enforcement of, laws, regulations and governmental policies, including, without limitation, health, safety, environmental, zoning and tax laws, government fiscal policies and the ADA; and · civil unrest, acts of war, terrorist attacks and natural disasters, including earthquakes and floods, which may result in uninsured and underinsured losses. In addition, because the yields available from equity investments in real estate depend in large part on the amount of rental income earned, as well as property operating expenses and other costs incurred, a period of economic slowdown or recession, declining demand for real estate, or the public perception that any of these events may occur, could result in a general decline in rents or an increased incidence of defaults among our existing leases, and, consequently, our properties, including those held by joint ventures, may fail to generate revenues sufficient to meet operating debt service and other expenses. As a result, we may have to borrow amounts to cover fixed costs, and our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and our ability to satisfy our principal and interest obligations and to make distributions to our shareholders may be adversely affected. Continued economic weakness from the severe economic recession that the U.S. economy recently experienced may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The U.S. economy is still experiencing weakness from the severe recession that it recently experienced, which resulted in increased unemployment, the bankruptcy or weakened financial condition of a number of large retailers, decreased consumer spending, a decline in residential and commercial property values and reduced demand and rental rates for retail space. Although the U.S. economy has emerged from the recent recession, high levels of unemployment have persisted, and rental rates and valuations for retail space have not fully recovered to pre-recession levels and may not for a number of years. If the economic recovery slows or stalls, we may continue to experience downward pressure on the rental rates we are able to charge as leases signed prior to the recession expire, and tenants may declare bankruptcy, announce store closings or fail to meet their lease obligations, any of which could adversely affect our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. Substantial international, national and local government spending and increasing deficits may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The values of, and the cash flows from, the properties we own are affected by developments in global, national and local economies. As a result of the recent severe recession and the significant government interventions, federal, state and local governments have incurred record deficits and assumed or guaranteed liabilities of private financial institutions or other private entities. These increased budget deficits and the weakened financial condition of federal, state and local governments may lead to reduced governmental spending, tax increases, public sector job losses, increased interest rates, currency devaluations or other adverse economic events, which may directly or indirectly adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 8 We face significant competition in the leasing market, which may decrease or prevent increases in the occupancy and rental rates of our properties. We have acquired and intend to continue to acquire properties located in developed areas. Consequently, we compete with numerous developers, owners and operators of retail properties, many of which own properties similar to, and in the same market areas as, our properties. If our competitors offer space at rental rates below current market rates, or below the rental rates we currently charge our tenants, we may lose existing or potential tenants and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge in order to attract new tenants and retain existing tenants when their leases expire. Also, if our competitors develop additional retail properties in locations near our properties, there may be increased competition for customer traffic and creditworthy tenants, which may result in fewer tenants or decreased cash flow from tenants, or both, and may require us to make capital improvements to properties that we would not have otherwise made. As a result, our financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders may be adversely affected. We may be required to make rent or other concessions and/or significant capital expenditures to improve our properties in order to retain and attract tenants, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. To the extent adverse economic conditions continue in the real estate market and demand for retail space remains low, we may be required to offer more substantial rent abatements, tenant improvements and early termination rights or accommodate requests for renovations, build-to-suit remodeling and other improvements or provide additional services to our tenants. As a result, we may have to make significant capital or other expenditures in order to retain tenants whose leases expire and to attract new tenants in sufficient numbers, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. Additionally, if we need to raise capital to make such expenditures and are unable to do so, or such capital is otherwise unavailable, we may be unable to make the required expenditures. This could result in non-renewals by tenants upon expiration of their leases, which could adversely affect to our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The actual rents we receive for the properties in our portfolio may be less than our asking rents, and we may experience a lease roll-down from time to time, which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our operating results depend upon our ability to maintain and increase rental rates at our properties while also maintaining or increasing occupancy. As a result of various factors, including competitive pricing pressure in our markets, the recent severe recession and the desirability of our properties compared to other properties in our markets, the rental rates that we charge tenants have generally declined and our ability to maintain our current rental rates or increase those rates in the future may be limited. Further, because current rental rates have declined as compared to expiring leases in our portfolio, the rental rates for expiring leases may be higher than starting rental rates for new leases and we may be required to offer greater rental concessions than we have historically. The degree of discrepancy between our previous asking rents and the actual rents we are able to obtain upon the expiration of our leases may vary both from property to property and among different leased spaces within a single property. If we are unable to obtain sufficient rental rates across our portfolio, our results of operations and cash flow and our ability to satisfy our debt obligations and make distributions to our shareholders will be adversely affected. We have experienced aggregate net losses attributable to Company shareholders for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, and we may experience future losses. We had net losses attributable to Company shareholders of approximately $95,843, $112,335 and $683,727 for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. If we continue to incur net losses in the future or such losses increase, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness and make distributions to our shareholders would be materially and adversely affected. We have a high concentration of properties in the Dallas-Fort Worth-Arlington area, and adverse economic and other developments in that area could have a material adverse effect on us. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 11.0% of the GLA and approximately 14.2% of the ABR from our retail operating portfolio were represented by properties located in the Dallas-Fort Worth-Arlington area. As a result, we are 9 particularly susceptible to adverse economic and other developments in this area, including increased unemployment, industry slowdowns, business layoffs or downsizing, decreased consumer confidence, relocations of businesses, changes in demographics, increases in real estate and other taxes, increased regulation, and natural disasters, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. Our inability to collect rents from tenants may negatively impact our financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Substantially all of our income is derived from rentals of real property. Therefore, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow materially depend on the financial stability of our tenants, any of which may experience a change in their business at any time, and our ability to continue to lease space in our properties on economically favorable terms. If the sales of stores operating in our centers decline sufficiently, tenants might be unable to pay their existing minimum rents or expense recovery charges, since these rents and charges would represent a higher percentage of their sales, and new tenants might be less willing to pay minimum rents as high as they would otherwise pay. Further, tenants may delay lease commencements, decline to extend or renew a lease upon its expiration or on favorable terms, or exercise early termination rights (to the extent available). If a number of our tenants are unable to make their rental payments to us and otherwise meet their lease obligations, our ability to meet debt and other financial obligations and to make distributions to our shareholders may be adversely affected. We may be unable to renew leases, lease vacant space or re-let space as leases expire, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that leases will be renewed or that our properties will be re-let at net effective rental rates equal to or above the current average net effective rental rates or that substantial rent abatements, tenant improvements, early termination rights or below-market renewal options will not be offered to attract new tenants or retain existing tenants. If the rental rates for our properties decrease, our existing tenants do not renew their leases or we do not re-let a significant portion of our available space and space for which leases will expire, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and cash available for distributions. If any of our anchor tenants experience a downturn in their business or terminate their leases, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected in the event of a downturn in the business, or the bankruptcy or insolvency, of any anchor store or anchor tenant, particularly an anchor tenant with multiple store locations. Anchor tenants generally occupy large amounts of square footage, pay a significant portion of the total rents at a property and contribute to the success of other tenants by drawing significant numbers of customers to a property. The closing of one or more anchor stores at a property could adversely affect that property and result in lease terminations by, or reductions in rent from, other tenants whose leases permit termination or rent reduction in those circumstances or whose own operations may suffer as a result of the anchor store closing. For example, in 2008 and 2009, three of our anchor tenants, Mervyns, Linens ‘n Things and Circuit City, declared bankruptcy, resulting in approximately 3,245,000 square feet of vacant retail space and a decrease in rental income of approximately $34,838. Additional bankruptcies or insolvencies of, or store closings by, our anchor tenants could significantly increase vacancies and reduce our rental income. If we are unable to re-let such space on similar terms and in a timely manner, our financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders could be materially and adversely affected. Many of the leases at our retail properties contain “co-tenancy” or “go-dark” provisions, which, if triggered, may allow tenants to pay reduced rent, cease operations or terminate their leases, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and/or the value of the applicable property. Many of the leases at our retail properties contain “co-tenancy” provisions that condition a tenant’s obligation to remain open, the amount of rent payable by the tenant or the tenant’s obligation to continue occupancy on certain conditions, including: (i) the presence of a certain anchor tenant or tenants; (ii) the continued operation of an anchor tenant’s store; and (iii) minimum occupancy levels at the applicable property. If a co-tenancy provision is triggered by a failure of any of these or other applicable conditions, a tenant could have the right to cease operations at the applicable property, terminate its lease early or have its rent reduced. In periods of prolonged economic decline such as the recent recession, there is a higher than normal risk that co-tenancy provisions will be triggered due to the higher risk of tenants closing stores or terminating leases during these periods. For example, the effects of recent tenant bankruptcies triggered some co-tenancy 10 clauses in certain other tenant leases, which provided certain of these tenants with immediate reductions in their annual rents and permitted them to terminate their leases if an appropriate replacement was not found within the allotted time period. In addition to these co-tenancy provisions, certain of the leases at our retail properties contain “go-dark” provisions that allow the tenant to cease operations at the applicable property while continuing to pay rent. This could result in decreased customer traffic at the applicable property, thereby decreasing sales for our other tenants at that property, which may result in our other tenants being unable to pay their minimum rents or expense recovery charges. These provisions also may result in lower rental revenue generated under the applicable leases. To the extent co-tenancy or go-dark provisions in our retail leases result in lower revenue or tenant sales or in tenants’ rights to terminate their leases early or to have their rent reduced, our financial condition and results of operations and the value of the applicable property could be adversely affected. We may be unable to collect balances due on our leases from any tenants in bankruptcy, which could adversely affect our cash flow and the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Our leases generally do not contain provisions designed to ensure the creditworthiness of the tenant, and a number of companies in the retail industry, including some of our tenants, have declared bankruptcy or voluntarily closed certain of their stores in recent years. We cannot assure you that any tenant that files for bankruptcy protection will continue to pay us rent. Any or all of the tenant’s or a guarantor of a tenant’s lease obligations could be subject to a bankruptcy proceeding pursuant to Chapter 11 or Chapter 7 of the bankruptcy laws of the United States. Such a bankruptcy filing would bar all efforts by us to collect pre-bankruptcy rents from these entities or their properties, unless we receive an order from the bankruptcy court permitting us to do so. A tenant or lease guarantor bankruptcy could delay our efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant leases, and could ultimately preclude collection of these sums. If a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, we would only have a general unsecured claim for damages. This claim could be paid only in the event funds were available, and then only in the same percentage as that realized on other unsecured claims, and our claim would be capped at the rent reserved under the lease, without acceleration, for the greater of one year or 15% of the remaining term of the lease, but not greater than three years, plus rent already due but unpaid. Therefore, if a lease is rejected, it is unlikely we would receive any payments from the tenant, or we would receive substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims we hold, which would result in a reduction in our rental income, cash flow and in the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders. In particular, on February 16, 2011, Borders Group, Inc. (Borders), a national retailer, filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 11. As of December 31, 2010, Borders leased approximately 220,000 square feet of space from us at 10 locations, which leases represented approximately $2,600 of ABR. In addition, Borders leased approximately 28,000 square feet of space at one of our unconsolidated joint venture properties, which represented $344 of ABR. Borders has informed us that it intends to close stores at five locations where it leased space from us, representing approximately 115,000 square feet of GLA and $1,119 of ABR as of December 31, 2010. Our expenses may remain constant or increase, even if income from our properties decreases, causing our financial condition and results of operations to be adversely affected. Costs associated with our business, such as mortgage payments, real estate and personal taxes, insurance, utilities and corporate expenses, are relatively inflexible and generally do not decrease, and may increase, when a property is not fully occupied, rental rates decrease, a tenant fails to pay rent or other circumstances cause our revenues to decrease. If we are unable to decrease our operating costs when our revenue declines, our financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders may be adversely affected. In addition, inflationary price increases could result in increased operating costs for us and our tenants and, to the extent we are unable to pass along those price increases or are unable to recover operating expenses from tenants, our operating expenses may increase, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Real estate related taxes may increase and if these increases are not passed on to tenants, our net income will be reduced. Even if we qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will be required to pay state and local taxes on our properties. The real property taxes may increase as property values or assessment rates change or as our properties are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. An increase in the assessed valuation of a property for real estate tax purposes will result in an increase in the related real estate taxes on that property. Although some leases may permit us to pass through such tax increases to our tenants, there is no assurance that renewal leases or future leases will be negotiated 11 on the same basis. If our property taxes increase and we are unable to pass those increases through to our tenants, our net income and cash available for distribution to our shareholders could be adversely affected. We may be unable to complete acquisitions and, even if acquisitions are completed, we may fail to successfully operate acquired properties. We continue to evaluate the market of available properties and may acquire properties when we believe strategic opportunities exist. Our ability to acquire properties on favorable terms and successfully operate or develop them is subject to the following risks: · we may be unable to acquire a desired property because of competition from other real estate investors with substantial capital, including from publicly traded REITs and institutional investment funds; · even if we are able to acquire a desired property, competition from other potential acquirers may significantly increase the purchase price; · even if we enter into agreements for the acquisition of properties, these agreements are subject to customary conditions to closing, including completion of due diligence investigations to our satisfaction; · we may incur significant costs and divert management attention in connection with evaluation and negotiation of potential acquisitions, including ones that we are subsequently unable to complete; · we may acquire properties that are not initially accretive to our results upon acquisition, and we may not successfully manage and lease those properties to meet our expectations; · we may be unable to finance the acquisition on favorable terms in the time period we desire, or at all; · even if we are able to finance the acquisition, our cash flow may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments; · we may spend more than budgeted to make necessary improvements or renovations to acquired properties; · we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisition of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and as a result our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected; · market conditions may result in higher than expected vacancy rates and lower than expected rental rates; and · we may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination, claims by tenants or other persons dealing with former owners of the properties and claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties. If we cannot finance property acquisitions in a timely manner and on favorable terms, or operate acquired properties to meet our financial expectations, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to satisfy our principal and interest obligations and to make distributions to our shareholders could be adversely affected. We depend on external sources of capital that are outside of our control, which may affect our ability to seize strategic opportunities, satisfy our debt obligations and make distributions to our shareholders. In order to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we are generally required under the Code to annually distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gain. In addition, as a REIT, we will be subject to income tax at regular corporate rates to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, including any net capital gains. Because of these distribution requirements, we may not be able to fund future capital needs, including any necessary acquisition financing, from operating cash flow. Consequently, we may rely on third-party sources to fund our capital needs. We may not be able to obtain the financing on favorable terms, in the time period we desire, or at all. Any additional debt we incur will increase our leverage, expose us to the risk of default and may impose operating restrictions on us, and any additional equity we raise could be dilutive to existing shareholders. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends, in part, on: · general market conditions; · the market’s view of the quality of our assets; 12 · the market’s perception of our growth potential; · our current debt levels; · our current and expected future earnings, and · our cash flow and cash distributions. If we cannot obtain capital from third-party sources, we may not be able to acquire or develop properties when strategic opportunities exist, satisfy our principal and interest obligations or make the cash distributions to our shareholders necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT. We may be unable to sell a property at the time we desire and on favorable terms or at all, which could inhibit our ability to utilize our capital to make strategic acquisitions and could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. Our ability to dispose of properties on advantageous terms depends on factors beyond on our control, including competition from other sellers and the availability of attractive financing for potential buyers of our properties, and we cannot predict the various market conditions affecting real estate investments that will exist at any particular time in the future. In addition, the Code generally imposes a 100% tax on gain recognized by REITs upon the disposition of assets if the assets are held primarily for sale in the ordinary course of business, rather than for investment, which may cause us to forego or defer sales of properties that otherwise would be attractive from a pre-tax perspective. As a result of such tax laws and the uncertainty of market conditions, our ability to promptly make changes to our portfolio as necessary to respond to economic and other conditions may be limited, and we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to sell such properties at a profit, or at all. Accordingly, our ability to access capital through dispositions may be limited which could limit our ability to acquire properties strategically and pay down indebtedness and would limit our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. In addition, certain of our leases contain provisions giving the tenant a right to purchase the property, which can take the form of a fixed price purchase option, a fair market value purchase option, a put option, a right of first refusal or a right of first offer. When acquiring a property in the future, we may also agree to restrictions that prohibit the sale of that property for period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property. These provisions may restrict our ability to sell a property at opportune times or on favorable terms and, as a result, may adversely impact our cash flows and results of operations. Furthermore, we may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We cannot assure our shareholders that we will have funds available to correct such defects or to make such improvements and, therefore, we may be unable to sell the asset or may have to sell it at a reduced cost. Joint venture investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on co-venturers’ financial condition and disputes between us and our co-venturers. We have made and may continue to make investments in joint ventures or other partnership arrangements between us and our joint venture partners. As of December 31, 2010, we held 55 operating properties (as well as a portion of one other property) with 6,853,000 square feet of GLA in two consolidated joint ventures and 19 operating properties with 2,665,000 square feet of GLA in three unconsolidated joint ventures. Investments in joint ventures or other partnership arrangements involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the following: · we do not have exclusive control over the development, financing, leasing, management and other aspects of the property or joint venture, which may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest but opposed by our partners; · prior consent of our joint venture partners may be required for a sale or transfer to a third party of our interest in the joint venture, which would restrict our ability to dispose of our interest in the joint venture; · two of our unconsolidated operating joint venture agreements have, and future joint venture agreements may contain, buy-sell provisions pursuant to which one partner may initiate procedures requiring the other partner to choose between buying the other partner’s interest or selling its interest to that partner; 13 · our partners might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions necessary to refinance debt or to fund tenant improvements or development or renovation projects for the joint venture properties, which may force us to contribute more capital than we anticipated to cover the joint venture’s liabilities; · our partners may have competing interests in our markets that could create conflict of interest issues; · our partners may have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our interests or goals and may take actions contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or objectives; · two of our joint venture agreements have, and future joint venture agreements may contain, provisions limiting our ability to solicit or otherwise attempt to persuade any tenant to relocate to another property not owned by the joint venture; · our partners may take actions that could jeopardize our REIT status or require us to pay tax; · actions by partners might subject real properties owned by the joint venture to liabilities greater than those contemplated by the terms of the joint venture or other adverse consequences that may reduce our returns; · disputes between us and partners or co-venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and/or directors from focusing their time and effort on our business and could result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk; and · we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners or co-venturers. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our financial condition, results of operations and cash available for distribution to our shareholders could be adversely affected. Our development and construction activities have inherent risks, which could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow. Our construction and development activities include risks that are different and, in most cases, greater than the risks associated with our acquisition of fully developed and operating properties. We may provide a completion of construction and principal guaranty to the construction lender. As a result of such a guaranty, we may subject a property to liabilities in excess of those contemplated and thus reduce our return to investors. In addition to the risks associated with real estate investments in general as described elsewhere, the risks associated with our development activities include: · significant time lag between commencement and stabilization subjects us to greater risks due to fluctuations in the general economy, including national, regional and local economic downturns, and shifts in demographics; · expenditure of money and time on projects that may never be completed; · occupancy rates and rents at a newly completed property may not be sufficient to make the property profitable; · inability to achieve projected occupancy and/or rental rates per square foot within the projected time frame, if at all; · failure or inability to obtain construction or permanent financing on favorable terms or at all; · higher than estimated construction or operating costs, including labor and material costs; · inability to complete construction and lease-up on schedule, resulting in increased debt service expense and construction costs; and · possible delay in completion of a project because of a number of factors, including weather, labor disruptions, construction delays or delays in receipt of zoning or other regulatory approvals, acts of terror or other acts of violence, or acts of God (such as fires, earthquakes or floods). Additionally, the time frame required for development and lease-up of these properties means that we may not realize a significant cash return for several years. If any of the above events occur, the development of the properties may hinder our growth and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. In addition, new development activities, regardless of whether or not they are ultimately successful, typically require substantial time and attention from management. 14 Bankruptcy of our developers could impose delays and costs on us with respect to the development retail properties and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The bankruptcy of one of the developers in any of our development joint ventures could materially and adversely affect the relevant property or properties. If the relevant joint venture through which we have invested in a property has incurred recourse obligations, the discharge in bankruptcy of the developer may require us to honor a completion guarantee and therefore might result in our ultimate liability for a greater portion of those obligations than we would otherwise bear. A number of properties in our portfolio are subject to ground leases; if we are found to be in breach of a ground lease or are unable to renew a ground lease, we could be materially and adversely affected. We have 17 properties in our portfolio that are either completely or partially on land subject to ground leases. Accordingly, we only own a long-term leasehold or similar interest in those properties. If we are found to be in breach of a ground lease, we could lose the right to use the property. In addition, unless we can purchase a fee interest in the underlying land and improvements or extend the terms of these leases before their expiration, as to which no assurance can be given, we will lose our right to operate these properties and our interest in the improvements upon expiration of the leases. Assuming that we exercise all available options to extend the terms of our ground leases, all of our ground leases will expire between 2018 and 2105. However, in certain cases, our ability to exercise such options is subject to the condition that we are not in default under the terms of the ground lease at the time that we exercise such options, and we can provide no assurances that we will be able to exercise our options at such time. Furthermore, we can provide no assurances that we will be able to renew our ground lease upon expiration. If we were to lose the right to use a property due to a breach or non-renewal of the ground lease, we would be unable to derive income from such property and would be required to purchase an interest in another property to attempt to replace that income, which could materially and adversely affect us. Uninsured losses or losses in excess of insurance coverage could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Each tenant is responsible for insuring its goods and premises and, in some circumstances, may be required to reimburse us for a share of the cost of acquiring comprehensive insurance for the property, including casualty, liability, fire and extended coverage customarily obtained for similar properties in amounts which we determine are sufficient to cover reasonably foreseeable losses. Tenants on a net lease typically are required to pay all insurance costs associated with their space. However, material losses may occur in excess of insurance proceeds with respect to any property and we may not have sufficient resources to fund such losses. In addition, we may be subject to certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as losses due to wars, acts of terrorism, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, pollution or environmental matters, which are either uninsurable or not economically insurable, or may be insured subject to limitations, such as large deductibles or co-payments. If we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds policy limits, we could lose all or a significant portion of the capital we have invested in the damaged property, as well as the anticipated future revenue of the property, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also might make it impractical or undesirable to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. In addition, if the damaged properties are subject to recourse indebtedness, we would continue to be liable for the indebtedness, even if these properties were irreparably damaged. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable costs in the future, as the costs associated with property and casualty renewals may be higher than anticipated. In addition, insurance risks associated with potential terrorism acts could sharply increase the premium we pay for coverage against property and casualty claims. Further, mortgage lenders, in some cases, have begun to insist that specific coverage against terrorism be purchased by commercial property owners as a condition for providing mortgage loans. It is uncertain whether such insurance policies will be available, or available at reasonable costs, which could inhibit our ability to finance or refinance our properties. In such instances, we may be required to provide other financial support, either through financial assurances or self-insurance, to cover potential losses. We cannot assure our shareholders that we will have adequate coverage for such losses and, to the extent we must pay unexpectedly large amounts for insurance, our financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders could be materially and adversely affected. 15 Some of our properties are subject to potential natural or other disasters, which could cause significant damage to our properties and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A number of our properties are located in areas which are susceptible to, and could be significantly affected by, natural disasters that could cause significant damage to our properties. For example, many of our properties are located in coastal regions, and would therefore be affected by any future increases in sea levels or in the frequency or severity of hurricanes and tropical storms, whether such increases are caused by global climate changes or other factors. In addition, a number of our properties are located in California and other regions that are especially susceptible to earthquakes. If we experience a loss, due to such natural disasters or other relevant factors, that is uninsured or which exceeds our policy limits, we could incur significant costs and lose the capital invested in the damaged properties, as well as the anticipated future revenue from those properties, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if the damaged properties are subject to recourse indebtedness, we would continue to be liable for the indebtedness, even if these properties were irreparably damaged. We may incur liability with respect to contaminated property or incur costs to comply with environmental laws, which may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Under various federal, state or local laws, ordinances and regulations, as a current or former owner or operator of real property, we may be liable for costs and damages resulting from the presence or release of hazardous substances, waste, or petroleum products at, on, in, under or from such property, including costs for investigation, remediation, natural resource damages or third party liability for personal injury or property damage. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence or release of such materials, and the liability may be joint and several. In addition, the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination at our properties may adversely affect our ability to sell, redevelop, or lease such property or to borrow using the property as collateral. Environmental laws also may create liens on contaminated sites in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs to address such contamination. Moreover, if contamination is discovered on our properties, environmental laws may impose restrictions on the manner in which that property may be used or how businesses may be operated on that property. Some of our properties have been or may be impacted by contamination arising from current or prior uses of the property or adjacent properties for commercial or industrial purposes. Such contamination may arise from spills of petroleum or hazardous substances or releases from tanks used to store such materials. We also may be liable for the costs of remediating contamination at off-site disposal or treatment facilities when we arrange for disposal or treatment of hazardous substances at such facilities, without regard to whether we comply with environmental laws in doing so. In addition, our properties are subject to various federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws, including laws governing the management of wastes and underground and aboveground storage tanks. Noncompliance with these environmental, health and safety laws could subject us or our tenants to liability. These environmental liabilities could affect a tenant’s ability to make rental payments to us. Moreover, changes in laws could increase the potential costs of compliance with environmental laws, health and safety laws or increase liability for noncompliance. This may result in significant unanticipated expenditures or may otherwise materially and adversely affect our operations, or those of our tenants, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on us. As the owner or operator of real property, we may also incur liability based on various building conditions. For example, buildings and other structures on properties that we currently own or operate or those we acquire or operate in the future contain, may contain, or may have contained, asbestos-containing material, or ACM. Environmental, health and safety laws require that ACM be properly managed and maintained and may impose fines or penalties on owners, operators or employers for non-compliance with those requirements. These requirements include special precautions, such as removal, abatement or air monitoring, if ACM would be disturbed during maintenance, renovation or demolition of a building, potentially resulting in substantial costs. In addition, we may be subject to liability for personal injury or property damage sustained as a result of exposure to ACM or releases of ACM into the environment. We cannot assure you that costs or liabilities incurred as a result of environmental issues will not affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders or that such costs or liabilities will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 16 Our properties may contain or develop harmful mold or suffer from other indoor air quality issues, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects or property damage or cost for remediation. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Indoor air quality issues can also stem from inadequate ventilation, chemical contamination from indoor or outdoor sources, and other biological contaminants such as pollen, viruses and bacteria. Indoor exposure to airborne toxins or irritants can be alleged to cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants at any of our properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold or other airborne contaminants or to increase ventilation. In addition, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants could expose us to liability from our tenants, employees of our tenants, or others if property damage or personal injury occurs. We may incur significant costs complying with the ADA and similar laws, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Under the ADA, all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Although we believe the properties in our portfolio substantially comply with present requirements of the ADA, we have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance. If one or more of the properties in our portfolio is not in compliance with the ADA, we would be required to incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance. Additional federal, state and local laws also may require modifications to our properties, or restrict our ability to renovate our properties. We cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with the ADA or other legislation. If we incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA and any other legislation, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and our ability to satisfy our debt obligations and to make distributions to our shareholders could be adversely affected. We may experience a decline in the fair value of our assets and be forced to recognize impairment charges, which could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. A decline in the fair value of our assets may require us to recognize an impairment against such assets under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) if we were to determine that, with respect to any assets in unrealized loss positions, we do not have the ability and intent to hold such assets to maturity or for a period of time sufficient to allow for recovery to the amortized cost of such assets. If such a determination were to be made, we would recognize unrealized losses through earnings and write down the amortized cost of such assets to a new cost basis, based on the fair value of such assets on the date they are considered to be unrecoverable. Such impairment charges reflect non-cash losses at the time of recognition; subsequent disposition or sale of such assets could further affect our future losses or gains, as they are based on the difference between the sale price received and adjusted amortized cost of such assets at the time of sale. In addition, there may be significant uncertainty in the valuation, or in the stability of the value, of our properties and those of our unconsolidated joint ventures, that could result in a substantial decrease in the value of our properties and those of our unconsolidated joint ventures. As a result, we may not be able to recover the carrying amount of our properties and/or our investments in our unconsolidated joint ventures and we may be required to recognize an impairment charge. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we recognized aggregate impairment losses of $23,057, $82,022 and $463,440, respectively. We may be required to recognize additional asset impairment charges in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Our investment in marketable securities has negatively impacted our results of operations and may do so in the future. Currently, our investment in marketable securities consists of preferred and common stock that are classified as available-for-sale and recorded at fair value. We have recognized other-than-temporary impairments related to our investment in these securities primarily as a result of the severity of the decline in market value and the length of time over which these securities experienced such declines. For example, other-than-temporary impairments were none, $24,831 and $160,327 for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. As of December 31, 2010, our investment in marketable securities totaled $34,230, which included $22,106 of accumulated unrealized gain. If our stock positions decline in value, we could take additional other-than-temporary impairments, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we purchase a portion of our securities through a margin account. If the value of those securities declines and we face a margin call, we may be required to sell those securities at unfavorable times and 17 record a loss or to post additional cash as collateral, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results and operations and our ability to satisfy our debt obligations and make distributions to our shareholders. Further, we may continue to invest in marketable securities in the future. Investments in marketable securities are subject to specific risks relating to the particular issuer of the securities, including the financial condition and business outlook of the issuer, which may result in significant losses to us. Marketable securities are generally unsecured and may also be subordinated to other obligations of the issuer. As a result, investments in marketable securities are subject to risks of: (i) limited liquidity in the secondary trading market; (ii) substantial market price volatility resulting from changes in prevailing interest rates; (iii) subordination to the prior claims of banks and other senior lenders to the issuer; (iv) the possibility that earnings of the issuer may be insufficient to meet its debt service and distribution obligations; and (v) the declining creditworthiness and potential for insolvency of the issuer during periods of rising interest rates and economic downturn. These risks may adversely affect the value of outstanding marketable securities and the ability of the issuer to make distribution payments. Our success depends on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed. We depend on the efforts and expertise of our senior management team to manage our day-to-day operations and strategic business direction. We do not, however, have employment agreements with the members of our senior management team. Therefore, we cannot guarantee their continued service. Moreover, among other things, it would constitute an event of default under the credit agreement governing our senior secured revolving line of credit and secured term loan if certain members of management (or a reasonably satisfactory replacement) ceased to continue to be active on a daily basis in our management. The loss of their services, and our inability to find suitable replacements, could have an adverse effect on our operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR DEBT FINANCING We had approximately $3,757,237 of consolidated indebtedness outstanding as of December 31, 2010, which could adversely affect our financial health and operating flexibility. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $3,757,237 of aggregate consolidated indebtedness outstanding, substantially all of which was secured by one or more of our properties or our equity interests in our joint ventures. As a result of this substantial indebtedness, we are required to use a material portion of our cash flow to service principal and interest on our debt, which will limit the cash flow available to pursue desirable business opportunities, pay operating expenses and make distributions to our shareholders. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to us and the value of our stock, including: · limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, execution of our growth strategy or other purposes; · limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to service the debt; · increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including increases in interest rates; · limiting our ability to capitalize on business opportunities, including the acquisition of additional properties, and to react to competitive pressures and adverse changes in government regulation; · limiting our ability or increasing the costs to refinance indebtedness; · limiting our ability to enter into marketing and hedging transactions by reducing the number of counterparties with whom we can enter into such transactions as well as the volume of those transactions; · we may be forced to dispose of one or more properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms; · we may be forced to sell additional equity securities at prices that may be dilutive to existing shareholders; · we may default on our obligations or violate restrictive covenants, in which case the lenders or mortgagees may accelerate our debt obligations, foreclose on the properties that secure their loans and/or take control of our properties that secure their loans and collect rents and other property income; 18 · in the event of a default under any of our recourse indebtedness, we would be liable for any deficiency between the value of the property securing such loan and the principal and accrued interest on the loan; · we may violate restrictive covenants in our loan documents, which would entitle the lenders to accelerate our debt obligations; and · our default under any one of our mortgage loans with cross-default provisions could result in a default on other indebtedness. If any one of these events were to occur, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and our ability to satisfy our principal and interest obligations and to make distributions to our shareholders could be materially and adversely affected. Our financial condition and ability to make distributions to our shareholders could be adversely affected by financial and other covenants and other provisions under the credit agreement governing our senior secured revolving line of credit and secured term loan or other debt agreements. On February 4, 2011, we amended and restated our existing credit agreement to provide for a senior secured credit facility in the aggregate amount of $585,000, consisting of a $435,000 senior secured revolving line of credit and a $150,000 secured term loan with a number of financial institutions. The credit agreement governing this senior secured revolving line of credit and secured term loan requires compliance with certain financial and operating covenants, including, among other things, leverage ratios, certain coverage ratios and net worth covenants, a covenant regarding minimum occupancy, limitations on our ability to incur unhedged variable rate debt or recourse indebtedness, limitations on our investments in unimproved land, unconsolidated joint ventures, construction in progress and mortgage notes receivable. The credit agreement also requires us to obtain consent prior to selling assets above a certain value or increasing our total assets by more than a certain amount as a result of a merger. In addition, our senior secured revolving line of credit and secured term loan limit our distributions to the greater of 95% of funds from operations, or FFO, or the amount necessary for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT. The senior secured revolving line of credit and secured term loan also contain customary events of default, including but not limited to, non-payment of principal, interest fees or other amounts, breaches of covenants, defaults on any recourse indebtedness of Inland Western Retail Real Estate Trust, Inc. in excess of $20,000 or any non-recourse indebtedness in excess of $100,000 in the aggregate subject to certain carveouts, failure of certain members of management (or a reasonably satisfactory replacement) to continue to be active on a daily basis in our management and bankruptcy or other insolvency events. These provisions could limit our ability to make distributions to our shareholders, obtain additional funds needed to address cash shortfalls or pursue growth opportunities or transactions that would provide substantial returns to our shareholders. In addition, a breach of these covenants or other event of default would allow the lenders to accelerate payment of advances under the credit agreement. If payment is accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay such debt in full and, as a result, such an event may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, and in connection with the debt refinancing transaction of IW JV, we entered into a lockbox and cash management agreement pursuant to which substantially all the income generated by the IW JV properties will be deposited directly into a lockbox account established by the lender. In the event of a default or the debt service coverage ratio falling below a set amount, the cash management agreement provides that excess cash flow will be swept into a cash management account, for the benefit of the lender, to be held as additional security after the payment of interest and approved property operating expenses. Cash will not be distributed to us from these accounts until the earlier of a cash sweep event cure, or the repayment of the mortgage loan, senior mezzanine note and junior mezzanine note. As of December 31, 2010, we were in compliance with the terms of the cash management agreement, however, if an event of default were to occur, we may be forced to borrow funds in order to make distributions to our shareholders and maintain our qualification as a REIT. Given the restrictions in our debt covenants on these and other activities, we may be significantly limited in our operating and financial flexibility and may be limited in our ability to respond to changes in our business or competitive activities in the future. 19 We incur mortgage indebtedness and other borrowings, which reduce the funds available for distributions required to maintain our status as a REIT and to avoid income and excise tax. We historically have incurred mortgage indebtedness and other borrowings in order to finance acquisitions or ongoing operations and we intend to continue to do so in the future. Our debt service and repayment requirements will not be reduced regardless of our actual cash flows. In addition, in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we must distribute to our shareholders at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gains, and we are generally subject to corporate tax on any retained income. As a result, if our future cash flow is not sufficient to meet our debt service and repayment requirements and the REIT distribution requirements, we may be required to use cash reserves, incur additional debt, sell equity securities or liquidate assets in order to meet those requirements. However, we cannot assure you that capital will be available from such sources on favorable terms or at all, which may negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Substantially all of the mortgage indebtedness we incur is secured, which increases our risk of loss since defaults may result in foreclosure. In addition, mortgages sometimes include cross-collateralization or cross-default provisions that increase the risk that more than one property may be affected by a default. As of December 31, 2010, we had a total of $3,521,552, net of premiums of $17,534 and discounts of $2,502, of indebtedness secured by 276 of our 284 operating properties. Because substantially all of our properties are mortgaged to secure payments of indebtedness, we are subject to the risk of property loss since defaults on indebtedness secured by properties may result in foreclosure actions initiated by lenders and ultimately our loss of the property securing the loan for which we are in default. For example, as of the date of this filing, we were in default on $76,057 of mortgage loans secured by a total of seven properties with 680,929 square feet of GLA representing $4,721 of ABR as of December 31, 2010. We expect to repay a $21,715 mortgage loan with borrowings under our senior secured revolving line of credit in March 2011. We are currently in active negotiations with the lenders regarding an appropriate course of action, including the potential for a discounted payoff with respect to the remaining $54,342 of mortgages payable. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to restructure our current obligations under the mortgage loans that were in default or that our negotiations with the lenders will result in favorable outcomes to us. Failure to restructure our mortgage obligations could result in default and foreclosure actions and loss of the underlying properties. In the event that we default on other mortgages in the future, either as a result of ceasing to make debt service payments or the failure to meet applicable covenants, we may have additional properties that are subject to potential foreclosure. In addition, as a result of cross-collateralization or cross-default provisions contained in certain of our mortgage loans, a default under one mortgage loan could result in a default on other indebtedness and cause us to lose other better performing properties, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Further, for tax purposes, a foreclosure of any nonrecourse mortgage on any of our properties would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on the foreclosure without accompanying cash proceeds, a circumstance which could hinder our ability to meet the REIT distribution requirements imposed by the Code. As a result, we may be required to identify and utilize other sources of cash for distributions to our shareholders of that income. Dislocations in the credit markets, including the continuing effects of the severe dislocation experienced in 2008 and 2009, may adversely affect our ability to obtain debt financing at favorable rates or at all. Dislocations in the credit markets, generally or relating to the real estate industry specifically, may adversely affect our ability to obtain debt financing at favorable rates or at all. The credit markets experienced a severe dislocation during 2008 and 2009, which, for certain periods of time, resulted in the near unavailability of debt financing for even the most creditworthy borrowers. Although the credit markets have recovered from this severe dislocation, there are a number of continuing effects, including a weakening of many traditional sources of debt financing, a reduction in the overall amount of debt financing available, lower loan to value ratios, a tightening of lender underwriting standards and terms and higher interest rate spreads. As a result, we may not be able to refinance our existing debt when it comes due or to obtain new debt financing for acquisitions or development projects, or we may be forced to accept less favorable terms, including 20 increased collateral to secure our indebtedness, higher interest rates and/or more restrictive covenants. If we are not successful in refinancing our debt when it becomes due, we may default under our loan obligations, enter into foreclosure proceedings, or be forced to dispose of properties on disadvantageous terms, any of which might adversely affect our ability to service other debt and to meet our other obligations. In addition, if a dislocation similar to that which occurred in 2008 and 2009 occurs in the future, the values of our properties may decline further, which could limit our ability to obtain future debt financing, refinance existing debt or utilize existing debt commitments and thus materially and adversely affect on our financial condition, particularly if it occurs at a time when we have significant debt maturities coming due. Future increases in interest rates may adversely affect any future refinancing of our debt, may require us to sell properties and could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. If we incur debt in the future and do not have sufficient funds to repay such debt at maturity, it may be necessary to refinance the debt through additional debt or additional equity financings. If, at the time of any refinancing, prevailing interest rates or other factors result in higher interest rates on refinancings, our net income could be reduced and any increases in interest expense could adversely affect our cash flows. Consequently, our cash available for distribution to our shareholders would be reduced and we may be prevented from borrowing more money. Any such future increases in interest rates would result in higher interest rates on new debt and our existing variable rate debt and may adversely impact our financial condition. Further, if we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, we may be forced to dispose of properties on disadvantageous terms, potentially resulting in losses. We may place mortgages on properties that we acquire to secure a revolving line of credit or other debt. To the extent we cannot meet future debt service obligations, we will risk losing some or all of our properties that may be pledged to secure our obligations. Also, covenants applicable to any future debt could impair our planned investment strategy, and, if violated, result in default. RISKS RELATED TO OUR ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE Our board of directors may change significant corporate policies without shareholder approval. Our investment, financing, borrowing and distribution policies and our policies with respect to all other activities, including growth, debt, capitalization and operations, are determined by our board of directors. These policies may be amended or revised at any time and from time to time at the discretion of the board of directors without a vote of our shareholders. As a result, the ability of our shareholders to control our policies and practices is extremely limited. We could make investments and engage in business activities that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the investments and businesses described in this report. In addition, our board of directors may change our policies with respect to conflicts of interest provided that such changes are consistent with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. A change in these policies could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to make distributions to our shareholders. We could increase the number of authorized shares of stock and issue stock without shareholder approval. Subject to applicable legal and regulatory requirements, our charter authorizes our board of directors, without shareholder approval, to increase the aggregate number of authorized shares of stock or the number of authorized shares of stock of any class or series, to authorize us to issue authorized but unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock and to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock and to set the preferences, rights and other terms of such classified or unclassified shares. As a result, we may issue series or classes of common stock or preferred stock with preferences, dividends, powers and rights, voting or otherwise, that are senior to, or otherwise conflict with, the rights of holders of our common stock. In addition, our board of directors could establish a series of preferred stock that could, depending on the terms of such series, delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or that our shareholders may believe is in their best interests. 21 Provisions of our charter may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of our company. Our charter provides that no person may beneficially own more than 9.8% in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of our outstanding common stock or 9.8% in value of the aggregate outstanding shares of our capital stock. These ownership limitations may prevent an acquisition of control of our company by a third party without our board of directors’ approval, even if our shareholders believe the change in control is in their best interests. Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes in control of us, which could lower the value of our common stock. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or MGCL, may have the effect of inhibiting or deterring a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of shares of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium on their shares of common stock, including: • “business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested shareholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of our then outstanding voting shares) or an affiliate of an interested shareholder for five years after the most recent date on which the shareholder becomes an interested shareholder, and thereafter may impose special shareholder voting requirements unless certain minimum price conditions are satisfied; and • “control share” provisions that provide that “control shares” of our company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the shareholder, entitle the shareholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of outstanding “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our shareholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares. Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL permits our board of directors, without shareholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement certain takeover defenses, including adopting a classified board. Such takeover defenses may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us under the circumstances that otherwise could provide our common shareholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price. In addition, the advance notice provisions of our bylaws could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control of our company that might involve a premium price for holders of our common stock or that our shareholders may believe to be in their best interests. Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions that you do not believe are in your best interests. Maryland law provides that a director or officer has no liability in that capacity if he or she satisfies his or her duties to us and our shareholders. As permitted by the MGCL, our charter limits the liability of our directors and officers to us and our shareholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from: • actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or • a final judgment based upon a finding of active and deliberate dishonesty by the director or officer that was material to the cause of action adjudicated. In addition, our charter and bylaws and indemnification agreements that we have entered into with our directors and certain of our officers require us, to indemnify our directors and officers, among others, for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our directors and officers than might otherwise exist. Accordingly, in the event that actions taken in good faith by any of our directors or officers impede the performance of our company, your ability to recover damages from such director or officer will be limited. In addition, we will be obligated to advance the defense costs incurred by our 22 directors and our officers with indemnification agreements, and may, in the discretion of our board of directors, advance the defense costs incurred by our employees and other agents, in connection with legal proceedings. RISKS RELATING TO OUR REIT STATUS Failure to qualify as a REIT would cause us to be taxed as a regular corporation, which would substantially reduce funds available for distributions to our shareholders and materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Subject to the discussion below regarding the closing agreement that we have requested from the IRS, we believe that we have been organized, owned and operated in conformity with the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT under the Code beginning with our taxable year ended December 31, 2003, and that our intended manner of ownership and operation will enable us to continue to meet the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. However, we cannot assure you that we have qualified or will qualify as such. Shareholders should be aware that qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Code as to which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations and involves the determination of facts and circumstances not entirely within our control. Future legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly change the tax laws or the application of the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for distributions to our shareholders because: · we would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to shareholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates; · we could be subject to the U.S. federal alternative minimum tax; · we could be subject to increased state and local taxes; and · unless we are entitled to relief under certain U.S. federal income tax laws, we could not re-elect REIT status until the fifth calendar year after the year in which we failed to qualify as a REIT. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will not be required to make distributions and it could result in default under certain of our indebtedness agreements. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and it would adversely affect the value of our stock. Even if we qualify as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flows. Even if we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain U.S. federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, taxes on net income from certain “prohibited transactions,” tax on income from certain activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, franchise, property and transfer taxes. In addition, we could, in certain circumstances, be required to pay an excise or penalty tax (which could be significant in amount) in order to utilize one or more relief provisions under the Code to maintain our qualification as a REIT. Also, our subsidiaries that are TRSs will be subject to regular corporate U.S. federal, state and local taxes. To the extent that we conduct operations outside of the United States, our operations would subject us to applicable foreign taxes as well. Any of these taxes would decrease our earnings and our cash available for distributions to shareholders. Failure to make required distributions would subject us to U.S. federal corporate income tax. In order to qualify as a REIT, we generally are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding net capital gains, each year to our shareholders. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, we will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our shareholders for a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under the Code. Moreover, our senior secured revolving line of credit and secured term loan may limit our distributions to the minimum amount required to maintain REIT status. Specifically, they limit our distributions to the greater of 95% of FFO or the amount necessary for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT. To the extent these limits prevent us from distributing 100% of our REIT taxable income, we will be subject to income tax, and potentially excise tax, on the retained amounts. 23 We may be required to borrow funds to satisfy our REIT distribution requirements. In order to maintain our qualification as a REIT and to meet the REIT distribution requirements, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis or sell assets, even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings or sales. Our cash flows from operations may be insufficient to fund required distributions as a result of differences in timing between the actual receipt of income and the recognition of income for U.S. federal income tax purposes, or the effect of non-deductible expenditures, such as capital expenditures, payments of compensation for which Section 162(m) of the Code denies a deduction, the creation of reserves or required debt service or amortization payments. The insufficiency of our cash flows to cover our distribution requirements could have an adverse impact on our ability to raise short- and long-term debt or to sell equity securities in order to fund distributions required to maintain our qualification as a REIT. Also, although the IRS has issued Revenue Procedure 2010-12 treating certain issuances of taxable stock dividends by REITs as distributions for purposes of the REIT requirements for taxable years ending on or before December 31, 2011, no assurance can be given that the IRS will extend this treatment or that we will otherwise be able to pay taxable stock dividends to meet our REIT distribution requirements. Dividends payable by REITs generally do not qualify for reduced tax rates. Certain dividends payable to individuals, trusts and estates that are U.S. shareholders are currently subject to U.S. federal income tax at a maximum rate of 15% and are scheduled to be taxed at ordinary income rates for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2012. Dividends payable by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for the current reduced rates. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stock of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities or to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. To qualify as a REIT, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our shareholders and the ownership of our capital stock. In order to meet these tests, we may be required to forego investments we might otherwise make and refrain from engaging in certain activities. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our performance. In addition, if we fail to comply with certain asset ownership tests at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification. As a result, we may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our shareholders. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could negatively impact our financial condition. At any time, the U.S. federal income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended. We cannot predict if or when any new U.S. federal income tax law, regulation, or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective and any such law, regulation, or interpretation may take effect retroactively. We and our shareholders could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation. You may be restricted from acquiring or transferring certain amounts of our stock. In order to maintain our REIT qualification, among other requirements, no more than 50% in value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals, as defined in the Code to include certain kinds of entities, during the last half of any taxable year, other than the first year for which we made a REIT election. To assist us in qualifying as a REIT, our charter contains an aggregate stock ownership limit of 9.8% and a common stock ownership limit of 9.8%. Generally, any shares of our stock owned by affiliated owners will be added together for purposes of the aggregate stock ownership limit, and any shares of common stock owned by affiliated owners will be added together for purposes of the common stock ownership limit. 24 If anyone attempts to transfer or own shares of stock in a way that would violate the aggregate stock ownership limit or the common stock ownership limit, unless such ownership limits have been waived by our board of directors, or in a way that would prevent us from continuing to qualify as a REIT, those shares instead will be transferred to a trust for the benefit of a charitable beneficiary and will be either redeemed by us or sold to a person whose ownership of the shares will not violate the aggregate stock ownership limit or the common stock ownership limit. If this transfer to a trust fails to prevent such a violation or our disqualification as a REIT, then the initial intended transfer or ownership will be null and void from the outset. Anyone who acquires or owns shares of stock in violation of the aggregate stock ownership limit or the common stock ownership limit, unless such ownership limit or limits have been waived by our board of directors, or in violation of the other restrictions on transfer or ownership in our charter bears the risk of a financial loss when the shares of stock are redeemed or sold if the market price of our stock falls between the date of purchase and the date of redemption or sale. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities. The REIT provisions of the Code limit our ability to hedge our liabilities. Generally, income from a hedging transaction we enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets does not constitute “gross income” for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both gross income tests. As a result of these rules, we may need to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a TRS. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because our TRS would be subject to tax on income or gains resulting from hedges entered into by it or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. In addition, losses in any of our TRSs will generally not provide any tax benefit, except for being carried forward for use against future taxable income in the TRSs. The ability of our board of directors to revoke our REIT qualification without shareholder approval may cause adverse consequences to our shareholders. Our charter provides that our board of directors may revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election, without the approval of our shareholders, if it determines that it is no longer in our best interest to continue to qualify as a REIT. If we cease to be a REIT, we will not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to shareholders in computing our taxable income and will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates and state and local taxes, which may have adverse consequences on our total return to our shareholders. We have requested a closing agreement with the IRS with respect to the administration of our distribution reinvestment plan prior to May 2006 and we may incur an expense even if the IRS grants our request. In order to satisfy the REIT distribution requirements, the dividends we pay must not be “preferential” within the meaning of the Code. A dividend determined to be preferential will not qualify for the dividends paid deduction. To avoid paying preferential dividends, we must treat every shareholder of a class of stock with respect to which we make a distribution the same as every other shareholder of that class, and we must not treat any class of stock other than according to its dividend rights as a class. We have maintained a distribution reinvestment plan, or DRP, since we began making distributions. Certain aspects of the operation of our DRP prior to May 2006 may have violated the prohibition against preferential dividends, and to address those issues we have requested a closing agreement from the IRS. From November 2003 through April 2006, we calculated distributions to our shareholders using a daily record and declaration date. The distributions so calculated for a given month were paid on the tenth day of the following month. However, for purposes of determining the amount of distributions to be paid in the following month, shares issued under the DRP prior to May 2006 were treated as issued on the first day of the month, rather than the tenth day of the month when cash dividends were paid. The administration of our DRP in such manner could be viewed as giving rise to preferential dividends, and thus the IRS could determine that our dividends paid from November 2003 through April 2006 did not qualify for the dividends paid deduction. If none of the dividends that we paid prior to May 2006 qualified for the dividends paid deduction, we would not have qualified as a REIT beginning in the tax year 2004, and we could be prohibited from reelecting REIT status until 2009. On January 20, 2011, we submitted a request to the IRS for a closing agreement whereby the IRS would agree that our dividends paid deduction for taxable years 2004 through 2006, the years for which we had positive taxable income, was sufficient for us to qualify for taxation as a REIT and would eliminate our REIT taxable income for such years, notwithstanding the 25 administration of our DRP in the manner described above. The IRS is currently reviewing our request and continues to move it through its review process. If the IRS does not enter into a closing agreement, we could incur a tax related liability, representing a payment of corporate taxes due for past periods including interest and penalties for the open statutory tax years we would not have qualified as a REIT. While there can be no assurance that the IRS will enter into a closing agreement with us, based upon the IRS entering into closing agreements with other REITs, we expect to obtain a closing agreement with the IRS for an estimated cost plus interest of approximately $62. We estimate that the range of loss that is reasonably possible is from approximately $62 if we obtain the closing agreement to approximately $155,000 if we do not obtain the closing agreement. We believe that it is probable that we will enter into a closing agreement with the IRS and, as a result, we have recorded an expense of $62 during the year ended December 31, 2010. GENERAL INVESTMENT RISKS The annual statement of value for shareholders subject to Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) and to certain other plan shareholders is only an estimate and may not reflect the actual value of our shares. The annual statement of estimated value for shareholders subject to ERISA and to certain other plan shareholders is only an estimate and may not reflect the actual value of our shares. The annual statement of estimated value is based on the estimated value of each share of common stock based as of the close of our fiscal year. The board of directors, in part, utilized third party sources and advice in estimating value, which reflects, among other things, the impact of the adverse trends in the economy and the real estate industry. Because this is only an estimate, we may subsequently revise any annual valuation that is provided. We cannot assure that: · this estimate of value could actually be realized by us or by our shareholders upon liquidation; · shareholders could realize this estimate of value if they were to attempt to sell their shares of common stock now or in the future; · this estimate of value reflects the price or prices at which our common stock would or could trade if it were listed on a national stock exchange or included for quotation on a national market system; or · the annual statement of value complies with any reporting and disclosure or annual valuation requirements under ERISA or other applicable law. As of December 31, 2009, the value for our shares was estimated for ERISA purposes to be $6.85 per share. As we currently intend to pursue the initial listing of our existing common stock on a national securities exchange within the next 12 months, we are not planning to publish an estimated annual statement of value of our common stock as of December 31, 2010. Our common stock is not currently listed on an exchange and cannot be readily sold. There is currently no public trading market for our shares of common stock and we cannot assure our shareholders that one will develop. We may never list the shares for trading on a national stock exchange. The absence of an active public market for our shares could impair a shareholder’s ability to sell our shares or obtain an active trading market valuation of the value of their interest in us. Our share repurchase program is limited thereby reducing the potential liquidity of a shareholders’ investment. Our board of directors suspended our share repurchase program effective November 19, 2008. If reinstated, under our share repurchase program, a maximum of 5% of the weighted average number of shares of our common stock outstanding during the prior calendar year may be repurchased by us. This limits the number of shares we could purchase. If reinstated and we subsequently terminate or modify our share repurchase program or if we do not have sufficient funds available to repurchase all shares that our shareholders request to repurchase, then our shareholders’ ability to liquidate their shares will be further diminished. 26 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 