ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The current economic conditions pose significant challenges that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends to a large degree on the general economic conditions in our market areas. Our market has experienced a significant downturn in which we have seen falling home prices, rising foreclosures and an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies. If economic conditions do not improve or continue to decline, we could experience any of the following consequences, each of which could further adversely affect our business: demand for our products and services could decline; problem assets and foreclosures may increase; and loan losses may increase. We could experience further adverse consequences in the event of a prolonged economic downturn in our market due to our exposure to commercial loans across various lines of business. A prolonged economic downturn could adversely affect collateral values or cash flows of the borrowing businesses, and as a result our primary source of repayment could be insufficient to service the debt. Another adverse consequence in the event of a prolonged economic downturn in our market could be the loss of collateral value on commercial and real estate loans that are secured by real estate located in our market area. A further significant decline in real estate values in our market would mean that the collateral for many of our loans would provide less security. As a result, we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans because our ability to fully recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral would be diminished. 14 Future economic conditions in our market will depend on factors outside of our control such as political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in government, military and fiscal policies and inflation. Our nonperforming assets expose us to increased risk of loss. In recent years, our nonperforming assets have increased from historical levels primarily as a result of the recent economic recession. At June 30, 2013, we had total nonperforming assets of $19.2 million, or 3.8% of total assets. Our nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not accrue interest income on non-accrual loans and no interest income is recognized until the loan is performing. Loans are returned to accrual status when future payments are reasonably assured. We must reserve for probable losses, which are established through a current period charge to income in the provision for loan losses, and from time to time, write down the value of properties in our other real estate owned portfolio to reflect changing market values. Additionally, there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets as well as carrying costs such as taxes, insurance and maintenance related to our other real estate owned. Changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income and earnings. Our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans and investments less the interest we pay on our deposits and borrowings. Our net interest spread is the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding. Changes in interest rates—up or down—could adversely affect our net interest margin and, as a result, our net interest income. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. Our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the yield catches up. This contraction could be more severe following a prolonged period of lower interest rates, as a larger proportion of our fixed rate residential loan portfolio will have been originated at those lower rates and borrowers may be more reluctant or unable to sell their homes in a higher interest rate environment. Changes in the slope of the “yield curve”—or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates—could also reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, we could experience pressure on our net interest margin as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and at times has forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. At June 30, 2012, which is the most recent date for which data is available from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, we held: (i) 22.58% of the deposits in Hamblen County, which is the largest market share out of nine financial institutions with offices in the county at that date; (ii) 0.27% of the deposits in the Knoxville, Tennessee, metropolitan statistical area, which is the 30th largest market share out of 44 financial institutions with offices in the metropolitan statistical area at that date; (iii) 4.77% of the deposits in the Johnson City, Tennessee metropolitan statistical area, which is the ninth largest market share out of 22 financial institutions located in the metropolitan statistical area at that date; and (iv) 1.06% of the deposits in the Kingsport, Tennessee-Bristol, Virginia metropolitan statistical area, which is the 20th largest market share out of 31 financial institutions located in the metropolitan statistical area at that date. Banks owned by SunTrust Banks, Inc., First Tennessee National Corporation and Regions Financial Corporation and other large regional bank holding companies also operate in our primary market areas. These institutions are significantly larger than us and, therefore, have significantly greater resources. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. 15 Our commercial real estate, commercial business and multi-family real estate loans expose us to increased lending risks. At June 30, 2013, $191.0 million, or 58.4%, of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate, commercial business and multi-family real estate loans. Commercial real estate and multi-family real estate loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Commercial business loans expose us to additional risks because they typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayments from the cash flow of the borrower’s business and are secured by collateral that may depreciate over time. All three of these types of loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Because such loans generally entail greater risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses in the future to account for the likely increase in probable incurred credit losses associated with the growth of such loans. Also, many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. We may require further additions to our allowance for loan losses, which would reduce net income. If our borrowers do not repay their loans or if the collateral securing their loans is insufficient to provide for the full repayment, we may suffer credit losses. Credit losses are inherent in the lending business and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for loan losses based on a number of factors. If our assumptions and judgments are wrong, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover our losses. In addition, when real estate values decline, the potential severity of loss on a real estate-secured loan can increase significantly, especially in the case of loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios. The recent decline in the national economy and the local economies of the areas in which the loans are concentrated could result in an increase in loan delinquencies, foreclosures or repossessions resulting in increased charge-off amounts and the need for additional loan loss allowances in future periods. If we determine that our allowance for loan losses is insufficient, we would be required to take additional provisions for loan losses, which would reduce net income during the period those provisions are taken. In addition, the Tennessee Department of Financial Institutions and the FDIC periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or to charge off particular loans. We may be required to write down the value of our investment securities if we conclude that a decline in the value in any of our securities is other than temporary. We review our investment portfolio periodically to determine whether the fair value is below the current carrying value. If the fair value of any of our investment securities has declined below its carrying value, we are required to determine whether the decline is other than temporary. If we conclude that the decline is other than temporary, we are required to write down the value of that security through a charge to earnings. The loss of our President and Chief Executive Officer could hurt our operations. We rely heavily on our President and Chief Executive Officer, Anderson L. Smith. The loss of Mr. Smith could have an adverse effect on us because, as a small community bank, Mr. Smith is responsible for more aspects of our business than he might be at a larger financial institution with more employees. Moreover, as a small community bank, we have fewer management-level employees who are in a position to succeed and assume the responsibilities of Mr. Smith. We have entered into a three-year employment agreement with Mr. Smith. We do not have key-man life insurance on Mr. Smith. 16 We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Tennessee Department of Financial Institutions, our chartering authority, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of our deposits. As a bank holding company, Jefferson Bancshares is subject to regulation and supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Recent regulatory reform may have a material impact on our operations. On July 21, 2010, the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act contains various provisions designed to enhance the regulation of depository institutions and prevent the recurrence of a financial crisis such as occurred in 2008 and 2009. These include provisions strengthening holding company capital requirements, requiring retention of a portion of the risk of securitized loans and regulating debit card interchange fees. The Dodd-Frank Act also created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to administer consumer protection and fair lending laws, a function that was formerly performed by the depository institution regulators. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business and operations will not be known for years until regulations implementing the statute are written and adopted. However, it is likely that the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will have an adverse impact on our operations, particularly through increased regulatory burden and compliance costs. Additionally, in July 2013, the federal banking agencies issued a final rule to revise their risk-based and leverage capital requirements and their method for calculating risk-weighted assets, to make them consistent with the agreements that were reached by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The final rule applies to all depository institutions, top-tier bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $500 million or more, and top-tier savings and loan holding companies (“banking organizations”). Among other things, the rule establishes a new common equity Tier 1 minimum capital requirement (4.5% of risk-weighted assets), increases the minimum Tier 1 capital to risk-based assets requirement (from 4% to 6% of risk-weighted assets) and assigns a higher risk weight (150%) to exposures that are more than 90 days past due or are on nonaccrual status and to certain commercial real estate facilities that finance the acquisition, development or construction of real property. The final rule also limits a banking organization’s capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments if the banking organization does not hold a “capital conservation buffer” consisting of 2.5% of common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets in addition to the amount necessary to meet its minimum risk-based capital requirements. The final rule becomes effective for us on January 1, 2015. The capital conservation buffer requirement will be phased in beginning January 1, 2016 and ending January 1, 2019, when the full capital conservation buffer requirement will be effective. Compliance with these rules, which are still being analyzed, will impose additional costs on banking entities and their holding companies. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general, which could significantly affect our ability to fund normal operations. In addition, our ability to acquire deposits or borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole as the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations in the domestic and worldwide credit markets deteriorates. Furthermore, Jefferson Bancshares is a separate entity and apart from Jefferson Federal and must provide for its own liquidity. In addition to its operating expenses, Jefferson Bancshares is responsible for the payment of dividends declared for its shareholders, and interest and principal on outstanding debt. Substantially all of Jefferson Bancshares’ revenues are obtained from subsidiary service fees and dividends. Payment of such dividends to Jefferson Bancshares by Jefferson Federal is limited under Tennessee law. The amount that can be paid in any calendar year, without prior approval from the Tennessee Department of Financial Institutions, cannot exceed the total of Jefferson Federal’s net income for the year combined with its retained net income for the preceding two years. 17 We are subject to certain risks in connection with our use of technology, including risks associated with systems failures, interruptions, or breaches of security. Communications and information systems are essential to the conduct of our business, as we use such systems to manage our customer relationships, our general ledger, our deposits, and our loans. While we have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of systems failures, interruptions, and security breaches, there can be no assurance that such events will not occur or that they will be adequately addressed if they do. Although we rely on commonly used security and processing systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect the secure transmission of data, these precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of security. In addition, we outsource certain of our data processing to certain third-party providers. If our third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty in communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely impacted. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel. The occurrence of any systems failure, interruption, or breach of security could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business, could subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The charter and bylaws of Jefferson Bancshares may prevent or make more difficult certain transactions, including a sale or merger of Jefferson Bancshares. Provisions of the charter and bylaws of Jefferson Bancshares may make it more difficult for companies or persons to acquire control of Jefferson Bancshares. Consequently, our shareholders may not have the opportunity to participate in such a transaction and the trading price of our common stock may not rise to the level of other institutions that are more vulnerable to hostile takeovers. In addition, these provisions also make more difficult the removal of current directors or management, or the election of new directors. These provisions include: · supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations and changes to some provisions of the charter and bylaws; · limitation on the right to vote shares; · the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; · provisions regarding the timing and content of shareholder proposals and nominations; · provisions restricting the calling of special meetings of shareholders; · the absence of cumulative voting by shareholders in the election of directors; and · the removal of directors only for cause. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 18 