Item 1a. Risk Factors As with all companies, MAM is exposed to certain risk factors as a result of its operations. Management has identified the following key risk factors for the Company’s continuing operations and specific risks remaining for the discontinued operations. Risk Factors Associated with Continuing Operations Legislation and Regulation MPS is a regulated utility, operating its distribution activity under the jurisdiction of the Maine Public Utilities Commission and transmission activity under the jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. The MPUC and FERC regulate the rates MPS is allowed to charge its customers. This includes determination of our allowed rate of return and rate structure, construction and operation of facilities, approval of depreciation and amortization rates and recovery of certain incremental costs, such as storm damage. The timing of rate changes and the results of regulatory proceedings could materially impact our results. MPS adjusts its transmission rates annually; the last change was on July 1, 2007. MPS was involved in rate cases in 2006 for each of its rates: distribution rates under MPUC Docket No. 2006-024, establishment of the 2006 transmission rates under FERC Docket No. ER00-1053, and recovery of stranded costs for the period from January 1, 2007, through December 31, 2009, under MPUC Docket No. 2006-506. The only rates anticipated to change in 2008 are the transmission rates, which will be determined based on the formula established in FERC Docket No. ER00-1503. The change in any rates could have a positive or negative impact on earnings and cash flow, but the ultimate impact is unknown at this time. MPS is also subject to local regulations, which may impact the location of our transmission and distribution facilities, and our ability to make repairs and upgrades to our facilities. Other changes in legislation and regulation could impact MAM’s earnings and operations positively or negatively. Such changes could include tax rates changes or environmental or workplace law changes. Construction of New Transmission Facilities MPS, working with CMP, is seeking to develop a 345 kV transmission line to connect northern Maine to the ISO-New England (“ISO-NE”) control area, together with related system upgrades. MPS expects this line, if built, will increase reliability and competition and meet new load growth requirements from potential renewable generation projects. This project is being undertaken coincident with an on-going system impact study at ISO-NE, which was triggered by interconnection requests in connection with proposed new generation projects. Local, state and federal regulatory approvals and permits are required for this project. We may or may not be able to obtain the approvals required for this proposed transmission project. Other factors, such as cost and availability of materials, labor and subcontractors may increase the cost of the project or delay its completion. 6 Table of Contents The Company has submitted notice to ISO-NE that, subject to certain conditions, it will seek to become a member of ISO-NE. Among the conditions is the requirement that the cost of the transmission project be included in the ISO-NE regional transmission rates. The Company cannot predict the outcome of this request, and it is possible that the conditions necessary for membership will not be met. Finally, the Company will be seeking financing for this project. Financing risks, including the type, cost and availability of financing, are also risks in the development of this line. Development of MAM Utility Services Group MAM USG was formed on September 27, 2007. We perceive a high demand for the services MAM USG offers; however, the Company operates in a competitive market, and does not have an exclusive franchise. Competition for contracts comes from other engineering firms and utility construction contractors, and is a risk associated with the development of this business. While there is a potential risk of not developing a sufficient client base, the initial cost should be low because of MAM USG’s ability to develop this business line without a significant initial capital investment. There are also risks when MAM USG secures contracts. Such risks include inaccuracy of cost estimates on fixed rate projects, risks from the use of subcontractors, collections risk, completion of construction risk and professional liability for engineering services. These risks are mitigated by Management’s experience with estimating utility engineering and construction costs, the negotiation of contracts, and professional liability insurance coverage. Attraction and Retention of Qualified Employees MPS and MAM USG are heavily dependent on the attraction and retention of qualified employees, including engineers and electricians. MAM maintains competitive wage and benefits packages for its employees, as well as certain third-party contractor arrangements to mitigate this risk. Inability to access enough qualified employees could result in deterioration of MPS’s service quality and MAM USG’s ability to compete in the marketplace. Economy of the Region and General Economic Conditions MPS operations are restricted to a territory in Aroostook County and northern Penobscot County, Maine. Our business follows the economy of the region we serve. During 2007, as energy supply rates increased, MPS experienced an increase in the number of disconnection notices to customers and payment arrangements for overdue bills. With the rise in heating costs this winter, we are anticipating potentially slower collections or an increase in uncollectible accounts during 2008. MPS has adjusted its reserve for uncollectible accounts based on the current indicators, and we will continue to closely monitor collection rates. Limited population growth and economic expansion in the region could also negatively impact the utility’s ability to maintain their customer base. Potato farming and processing and the manufacturing of forest products, principally lumber, plywood, and oriented strand board, continue to be dominant economic forces within MPS’s service area. Temporary plant shutdowns and slow economic growth can reduce our earnings. MPS participates in APP, a public/private partnership for economic progress. The efforts of APP are intended to increase the area’s emphasis on economic development. Competitive Conditions Except for consumers served by municipal electric utilities within MPS’s service area, MPS has a nearly exclusive franchise to deliver electric energy in its service territory. MPS has little exposure to risk from competition. 7 Table of Contents MAM USG operates in competitive markets and does not have an exclusive franchise. Competition for contracts comes from local and regional electrical engineering firms. Maricor Properties Ltd, Cornwallis Court Developments Ltd and Mecel Properties Ltd compete in the open market for tenants for facilities owned and operated by these subsidiaries. Competition is driven by per square foot lease costs, operating costs, quality of the work environment, availability of parking, management services and other factors that could influence a tenant to lease office space. These companies have greatly mitigated this risk with their existing long-term leases for tenants. Holding Company Structure MAM is a holding company whose main assets are its investments in its subsidiaries, particularly MPS. The Company’s ability to pay dividends on common stock and satisfy required principal and interest payments on outstanding debt obligations is dependent on dividends from subsidiaries. There are regulatory restrictions on the amount of dividends MPS is allowed to pay MAM, particularly a provision limiting these dividends to 100% of the two-year rolling average of MPS’s net income. However, this limitation does not apply to the stranded cost free cash flows. Interest Rate and Debt Covenant Risk MAM, TMG and MPS have financial and other covenants on their financing arrangements. In the event of a default, the lenders could require immediate repayment of the debt. A default could also trigger increases in interest rates, difficulty obtaining other sources of financing and cross-default provisions with the debt agreements. The Company was in compliance with all debt covenants as of December 31, 2007. As of December 31, 2006, MAM and TMG did not meet the interest coverage ratios required by these debt covenants. Both Bank of America and Katahdin Trust Company provided waivers for compliance with the debt covenants for the fourth quarter of 2006. Since that time, MAM and TMG have maintained compliance with all of their debt covenants. MAM, TMG, Maricor Properties and MPS each have interest rate risk due to variable interest rates on financing arrangements. The Company has mitigated a portion of this risk by fixing interest rates on three MPS variable rate debt issues with a derivative interest rate swap transaction on September 9, 2003. Pension Plan Investments The MPS Pension Plan assets are invested in equity and fixed income investments. Changes in the stock market and accounting standards can materially impact MPS’s obligations under this plan, including the Plan’s impact on expense and cash flows. The Company has partly mitigated its risk through the freeze of future salary and service accruals under the Company’s Pension Plan, which went into effect on December 31, 2006. Information Technology Problems with computers and technology could result in billing errors or unintentional release of confidential consumer information. MAM goes to significant lengths to test its systems and protect against such events; however, the Company cannot warrant that such risks do not exist. Environmental Risks MAM, and particularly MPS, bear environmental risks associated with the former ownership of nuclear, diesel and oil-fired generation, as well as the ownership of transformers containing Poly Chlorinated Bi-phenols (“PCB’s”). Further, MPS has potential risks concerning claims related to electro-magnetic fields. While the Company takes significant steps to ensure prudent environmental practices, it cannot assure that risks do not exist 8 Table of Contents from past or future environmental practices. Additionally, while the Company does not believe electro-magnetic fields represent a danger, particularly due to its lack of ownership of bulk transmission, it cannot warrant that claims could not be filed. Aging Infrastructure and Reliability MPS has risks associated with aging infrastructure assets that may, in some instances, be beyond the useful life of the asset. The failure of such assets could result in the loss of power, which could result in harm to property or person, increased expenses and/or a reduction in revenue. MPS works diligently through on-site inspection and testing programs to ensure the integrity of its infrastructure, but cannot warrant that outages will not occur due to the age of some infrastructure. MPS does maintain substantial back-up equipment and the capability to repair or rebuild such assets in a timely manner, including the maintenance of mobile transformers. MPS also increased its capital expenditures in 2007 and its budgeted capital investments in 2008 to address this risk. Weather MPS’s electric wires infrastructure is at risk to natural phenomena, especially those caused by the weather. Storms, such as ice storms and major winter snow storms, may have an impact on the integrity of MPS’s infrastructure assets in the field, requiring incremental maintenance expense or loss of potential earnings due to outages. Vandalism, Terrorism and Other Illegal Acts MPS is subject to the risks of damage to others’ properties or human harm due to the failure of infrastructure. While MPS exercises diligent asset management and asset inspections, it cannot warrant that such risks can be fully eliminated. MPS and its electric wires and information technology infrastructure are also particularly at risk for vandalism and acts of terrorism. While the Company takes steps to protect against such illegal acts through various risk insurance policies and other protective measures, including restricting access to assets, it cannot warrant that they will not happen. This risk also applies to certain third-party generation and other electrical facilities. As a transmission and distribution company, MPS is allowed to charge ratepayers for only the use of its lines and other T&D facilities. This rate is based largely on energy consumption. The energy is supplied by an SOS or CES. The energy supplier facilities are subject to the same sort of risks as MPS facilities, including extreme weather conditions, breakdowns, acts of terrorism and other occurrences that could impact the availability of supply, and, in turn, MPS’s revenue. Alternative Generation Options MPS does face technology and product substitution risks associated with the evolution of distributed generation, non-utility generation, and other alternative fuel forms. The primary risk in this area is non-utility generation, with which the utility has successfully competed to date. However, as electric commodity prices increase, the viability of alternative fuel from non-utility generation may become more practical. Such projects could result in reduced usage of MPS’s delivery system. Discontinued and Real Estate Operations These risks are specific to the discontinued unregulated engineering, real estate and software subsidiaries. Professional Liability TMG and its subsidiaries are subject to risks associated with engineering design errors and/or omissions. As noted above, MAM USG provides construction, engineering and design services in connection with electric 9 Table of Contents generation infrastructure projects, and, therefore, is subject to similar risks. The sales of TMGC assets and the closure of TMGNE operations eliminated exposure on future projects, but MAM could still be liable for errors and omissions on past projects for several years. The Company carries insurance to mitigate these risks. Final Settlement of Remaining Obligations There are certain liabilities which remain from either the operations or sales and closures of the unregulated engineering and software companies. MAM has estimated these remaining obligations and accrued for known liabilities, such as the lease of office space formerly used by TMGNE in Hudson, Massachusetts, the remaining two payments to the former Pace principals and insurance deductibles for expected claims. These accruals reflect the best information available at the time of filing; however, actual results may vary materially from our estimates. Divestiture of Unregulated Real Estate MAM intends to divest its unregulated real estate investments. This process involves many risks, including, but not limited to, identification of suitable purchasers, completion of due diligence and negotiation of the terms of the sale. At this time, no material gain or loss is anticipated on the sale of these investments. However, actual results could vary. Equity Price Risk Market price protection was given by MTI under the terms of the sale of the MTI assets to HCI Systems Assets Management, LLC (“HCI”) on April 13, 2007. Under this agreement, HCI converted its remaining 6,500 preferred shares to 26,000 common shares on that date. If MAM’s stock price is less than $25 on March 31, 2008, HCI is entitled to additional shares of common stock. The 3,000 preferred shares previously converted to common shares by HCI do not have this feature. Foreign Operations Mecel Properties and Maricor Properties, including its subsidiary Cornwallis, operate in Canada. There are a number of risks associated with operations outside of the United States, including differences in laws, policies and measures; regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment; differences in social, political, labor, and economic conditions, including foreign exchange rates; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; and potential adverse foreign tax consequences. 