Item 1A. Risk Factors In evaluating our company, careful consideration should be given to the following risk factors, in addition to the other information included in this annual report. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business operating results and/or financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our stock. In addition to the following disclosures, please refer to the other information contained in this report including the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. The ongoing market disruptions may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The global financial markets continue to undergo pervasive and fundamental disruptions. The continuation or intensification of any 7 such volatility may have an adverse impact on the availability of credit to businesses generally and could lead to an overall further weakening of the United States and global economies. To the extent that turmoil in the financial markets continues and/or intensifies, it has the potential to materially affect the value of our investment properties and our investment in unconsolidated joint ventures, the availability or the terms of financing that we and our unconsolidated joint ventures have or may anticipate utilizing, the ability of us and our unconsolidated joint ventures to make principal and interest payments on or refinance any outstanding debt when due. It may also impact the ability of our tenants and potential tenants to enter into new leases or satisfy rental payments under existing leases. The current market disruption could also affect our operating results and financial condition as fo llows: · Debt and equity markets. Our results of operations are sensitive to the volatility of the credit markets. The commercial real estate debt markets are currently experiencing volatility as a result of certain factors, including the tightening of underwriting standards by lenders and the significant inventory of unsold collateralized mortgage backed securities in the market. Credit spreads for major sources of capital have widened significantly as investors have demanded a higher risk premium. This results in lenders increasing the cost for debt financing. Should the overall cost of borrowings continue to increase, either by increases in the index rates or by increases in lender spreads, we will need to factor such increases into the economics of our acquisitions, operations, developments and dispositions. This may result in lower overall economic ret urns and reduce cash flow available for distribution, which could potentially impact our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and to comply with certain debt covenants that are based on available cash. In addition, the recent dislocations in the debt markets have reduced the amount of capital that is available to finance real estate, which, in turn, (i) will no longer allow real estate investors to rely on capitalization rate compression to generate returns (ii) has slowed real estate transaction activity and (iii) may result in an inability to refinance debt as it becomes due, all of which may reasonably be expected to have a material impact on revenues or income from the acquisition and operations of real properties and mortgage loans. In addition, the state of the debt markets could have an impact on the overall amount of capital investing in real estate, which may result in price or value decreases of real estate assets and impact our ability to raise equity capital both for our own operations and for our current or future unconsolidated joint ventures. · Valuations. The recent market volatility will likely make the valuation of our investment properties and those of our unconsolidated joint ventures more difficult. There may be significant uncertainty in the valuation, or in the stability of the value, of our properties and those of our unconsolidated joint ventures, that could result in a substantial decrease in the value of our properties and those of our unconsolidated joint ventures. As a result, we may not be able to recover the carrying amount of our properties and/or our investments in our unconsolidated joint ventures and we may be required to recognize an impairment charge, which will reduce our reported earnings. Specifically, during the year ended December 31, 2009, we have taken approximately $64,700 in impairment charges against our investment properties and $24,831 in impairment charges against o ur marketable securities portfolio, both of which were taken due to the uncertainty of valuations in the current volatile marketplace. In addition, other factors contributed to investment property impairment charges including significant declines in occupancy and tenant bankruptcies. We also have recorded approximately $9,062 of impairment charges through our equity in loss of unconsolidated joint ventures. In addition, any decline in value of our properties and those of our unconsolidated joint ventures could reduce the proceeds we are able to obtain through refinance, which may result in required pay down of principal. · Occupancy. The condition of the current economy has put pressure on not only us, but our tenants and potential tenants as well. As a result, occupancy across the United States is down from historical averages creating significant available GLA. In order to attract larger, credit tenants to our properties, we may have to incur significant tenant improvements, other capital expenditures or less favorable rental rates as we focus on stabilizing our existing portfolio, which would reduce our available cash flow. Our cash flows and operating results could be adversely affected by required payments of debt or related interest and other risks of our debt financing. We are generally subject to the risks associated with debt financing. These risks include: · our cash flows may not satisfy required payments of principal and interest; · we may not be able to refinance existing indebtedness on our properties as necessary, or the terms of the refinancing may be less favorable to us than the terms of existing debt; 8 · required debt payments are not reduced if the economic performance of any property declines; · debt service obligations could reduce funds available for distribution to our shareholders and funds available for development and acquisitions, and · necessary capital expenditures for purposes such as re-leasing space cannot be financed on favorable terms. If a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we cannot make the mortgage maturity payments, or are unsuccessful in obtaining an extension, we may decide to surrender the property to the lender with a consequent loss of any prospective income and equity value from such property. Although the loans we obtain are generally non-recourse, occasionally, when it is deemed to be necessary, we may guarantee all or a portion of the debt on a full-recourse basis. As of December 31, 2009, we had guaranteed $107,000 and $60,543 of the outstanding secured line of credit and mortgages payable, respectively. The majority of our mortgages payable require monthly payments of interest only, although it has become more common for lenders to require principal and interest payments, as well as, reserves for taxes, insurance, and certain other costs. Any of these risks can place strains on our cash fl ows, reduce our ability to grow and adversely affect our results of operations. Our financial condition could be adversely affected by financial covenants under our credit or other debt agreements. Our credit agreement contains certain financial and operating covenants, including, among other things, leverage ratios, certain coverage ratios, as well as limitations on our ability to incur secured indebtedness. The credit agreement also contains customary default provisions including the failure to timely pay debt service issued thereunder, the failure to comply with our financial and operating covenants, and the failure to pay when due any other of our indebtedness. These covenants could limit our ability to obtain additional funds needed to address cash shortfalls or pursue growth opportunities or transactions that would provide substantial return to our shareholders. In ad dition, a breach of these covenants could cause a default and accelerate payment of advances under the credit agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. On December 1, 2009, as part of the debt refinancing transaction of IW JV, (see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements) we entered into a cash management agreement with the lender that requires all rents and other revenues to be deposited directly into a lockbox account established by the lender. In the event of a default, as defined, or the debt service coverage ratio falling below a set amount, the cash management agreement provides that excess cash flow, as defined, be held in a reserve account by lender as additional security and not disbursed to us until the earlier of a cash sweep event cure, as defined, or the repayment of the mortgage loan, senior mezzanine note and junior mezzanine note. As of December 31, 2009, we were in compliance with the terms of the cash management agreement. Our current business plans indicate that we will be able to operate in compliance with our financial covenants under our credit agreement in 2010 and beyond if the maturity of our credit agreement is extended for one year from its original maturity date of October 2010, as permitted by the agreement. Our current business plans also indicate that we will be able to operate in compliance with the cash management agreement described above. The dislocation in the global credit markets that occurred in 2008 and 2009 has significantly impacted our projected cash flows and our financial position and effective leverage. If there is a continued decline in the retail and real estate industries and a decline in consumer confidence leading to a decline in consumer spending and/or we are unable to successfully execute plans as further described below, we could violate thes e covenants, and as a result may be subject to higher finance costs and fees and/or an acceleration of the maturity date of advances under the credit agreement. These facts and an inability to predict future economic conditions have encouraged us to adopt a strict focus on lowering leverage and increasing financial flexibility. In an attempt to address the risks associated with the debt and equity capital markets, valuations, and conditions under our credit agreement, our board of directors made the decision to suspend our share repurchase program and approved a 2009 dividend policy that will maximize our cash flow, while still adhering to REIT payout requirements. Our dividend policy may result in a reduction in the level of dividend payouts going forward. The board of directors approved to move our cash distribution payment from a monthly basis to a quarterly basis. We intend to continue to comply with our REIT distribution requirements and distribute no less than 90% of our taxable income. We are vulnerable to changes in the business and financial condition of retailers or demand for our space. The retail shopping sector has been adversely affected by economic conditions, as well as the competitive nature of the retail business and the competition for market share where stronger retailers have out-positioned some of the weaker retailers. These shifts have forced some market share away from weaker retailers and required them, in some cases, to declare bankruptcy and/or close stores. As information becomes available regarding the status of our leases with tenants in 9 financial distress or their future plans for these spaces change, we may be required to write off and/or accelerate depreciation and amortization expense associated with a significant portion of the tenant improvements and lease intangibles in future periods. Our income and ability to meet our financial obligations could also be adversely affected in the event of the bankruptcy, insolvency or significant downturn in the business of one of these tenants or any of our other major tenants. In addition, our results could be adversely affected if any of these tenants do not renew their leases as they expire. General Investment Risks Our common stock is not currently listed on an exchange and cannot be readily sold. There is currently no public trading market for our shares of common stock and we cannot assure our shareholders that one will develop. We may never list the shares for trading on a national stock exchange. The absence of an active public market for our shares could impair a shareholder’s ability to sell our shares or obtain an active trading market valuation of the value of their interest in us. Increases in market interest rates may hurt the value of our stock. We believe that our shareholders consider the distribution rate on REIT stocks, expressed as a percentage of the price of stocks, relative to the market interest rates as an important factor in deciding whether to buy or sell the stocks. If market interest rates go up, prospective purchasers of REIT stocks may expect a higher distribution rate. Higher interest rates would not, however, result in more funds being available for us to distribute and, in fact, would likely increase our borrowing costs and might decrease our funds available for distribution. Thus, higher market interest rates could cause the value of our stock to decline. Our share repurchase program is limited thereby reducing the potential liquidity of a shareholders’ investment. Our board of directors suspended our share repurchase program effective November 19, 2008. In addition, our amended credit agreement contains a prohibition on redemptions of our common shares until March 31, 2010, at which point this condition will be re-evaluated in combination with other covenants included in the credit agreement. If reinstated, under our share repurchase program, a maximum of 5% of the weighted average number of shares of our common stock outstanding during the prior calendar year may be repurchased by us. This limits the number of shares we could purchase. If reinstated and we subsequently terminate or modify our share repurchase program or if we do not have sufficient funds available to repurchase all shares that our shareholders reques t to repurchase, then our shareholders’ ability to liquidate their shares will be further diminished. There are conflicts of interest between us and our related parties. Our operation and management, including our acquisition of properties, may be influenced or affected by conflicts of interest arising out of our relationship with related parties. Those related parties could take actions that are more favorable to other entities than to us. The resolution of conflicts in favor of other entities could have a negative impact on our financial performance. Our investment in marketable securities has, and may in the future, negatively impact our results. Our investment in marketable securities consists of preferred and common stock which are classified as available-for-sale and recorded at fair value. We have recognized other-than-temporary losses related to our investment in these securities primarily as a result of the severity of the decline in market value and the length of time over which these securities had experienced such declines. As the equity market has started to recover, we have been able to sell marketable securities at prices in excess of our current book values. However, if our stock positions do not continue to recover, we could take additional other-than-temporary impairments, which could be material to our operations. General Real Estate Risks There are inherent risks with real estate investments. All real property investments are subject to some degree of risk. Equity real estate investments cannot be quickly converted to cash. This limits our ability to promptly vary our portfolio in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions. Real property investments are also subject to adverse changes in general economic conditions or local conditions which reduce the demand for rental space. Other factors also affect real estate values, including: · possible federal, state or local regulations and controls affecting rents, prices of goods, fuel and energy consumption and prices, water and environmental restrictions; · increasing labor and material costs, and · the attractiveness of the property to tenants in the neighborhood. 10 The yields available from equity investments in real estate depend in large part on the amount of rental income earned, as well as property operating expenses and other costs we incur. If our properties do not generate revenues sufficient to meet operating expenses, we may have to borrow amounts to cover fixed costs, and our cash available for distributions may be adversely affected. Adverse economic conditions could reduce our income and distributions to shareholders. Our properties are primarily retail establishments. The economic performance of our properties has been and could continue to be affected by changes in local economic conditions. Our performance is therefore linked to economic conditions in areas where we have acquired or intend to acquire properties and in the market for retail space generally. Adverse conditions include, but are not limited to: · the regional and local economy, which may be negatively impacted by plant closings, industry slowdowns, adverse weather conditions, natural disasters and other factors · local real estate conditions, such as an oversupply of, or a reduction in demand for, retail space or retail goods, and the availability and creditworthiness of current and prospective tenants · perceptions by retailers or shoppers of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of the retail property · the convenience and quality of competing retail properties and other retailing options such as the Internet · changes in laws and regulations applicable to real property, including tax and zoning laws · changes in interest rate levels and the availability and cost of financing If we are unable to generate sufficient revenue from our retail properties, including those held by joint ventures, we will be unable to meet operating and other expenses, including debt service, lease payments, capital expenditures and tenant improvements, and to make distributions from our joint ventures and then, in turn, to our shareholders. Therefore, to the extent that there are adverse economic conditions in an area and in the market for retail space generally that impact the market rents for retail space, such conditions could result in a reduction of our income and cash available for distributions and thus affect the amount of distributions we can make to our shareholders. The value of our stock may be negatively impacted if: · our tenants are unable to make rental payments, if their rental payments are reduced, or if they terminate a lease, our financial condition and ability to pay distributions will be adversely affected. We are subject to the risk that tenants, as well as lease guarantors, if any, may be unable to make their lease payments or may decline to renew a lease upon its expiration. A default by a tenant, the failure of a guarantor to fulfill its obligations or other premature termination of a lease, or a tenant's election not to renew a lease upon its expiration, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to pay distributions. · our financial condition and ability to make distributions is adversely affected by the bankruptcy or insolvency, a downturn in the business, or lease termination of a tenant that occupies a large area of the retail center (commonly referred to as an anchor tenant), as well as co-tenancy provisions that may be triggered by an anchor tenant vacancy. Any anchor tenant, a tenant that is an anchor tenant at more than one retail center, or a tenant of any of the single-user net lease properties may become insolvent, may suffer a downturn in business, or may decide not to renew its lease. Any of these events would result in a reduction or cessation in rental payments to us and would adversely affect our financial condition. A lease termination by an anchor tenant could result in lease terminations or reductions in rent by other tenants whose leases permit cancellation or rent reduction if an anchor tenant's lease is terminated. In certain properties where there are large tenants, other tenants may have a co-tenancy provision within their lease that requires that if certain large tenants or “shadow” tenants discontinue operations, a right of termination or reduced rent may exist. In such event, we may be unable to re-lease the vacated space. If we are unable to re-lease the vacated space to a new anchor tenant, we may incur additional expenses in order to remodel the space to be able to re-lease the space to more than one tenant. Similarly, the leases of some anchor tenants may permit the anchor tenant to transfer its lease to another retailer. The transfer to a new anchor tenant could cause customer traffic in the retail center to decrease and thereby reduce the income generated by that retail center. A transfer of a lease to a new anchor tenant could also allow other tenants to make reduced rental payments or to terminate their leases at the r etail center. 11 · a tenant files for bankruptcy, we may be unable to collect balances due under relevant leases. Any or all of the tenant’s or a guarantor of a tenant's lease obligations could be subject to a bankruptcy proceeding pursuant to Chapter 11 or Chapter 7 of the bankruptcy laws of the United States. Such a bankruptcy filing would bar all efforts by us to collect pre-bankruptcy rents from these entities or their properties, unless we receive an enabling order from the bankruptcy court. Post-bankruptcy rents are to be paid currently. If a lease is assumed, all pre-bankruptcy balances owing under it must be paid in full. If a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, we would have a general unsecured claim for damages. If a lease is rejected, it is unlikely we would receive any payments from the tenant because our claim is capped at the rent reserved under the lease, without acceleration, for the greater of one year or 15% of the remaining term of the lease, but not greater than three years, plus rent already due but unpaid. This claim could be paid only in the event funds were available, and then only in the same percentage as that realized on other unsecured claims. A tenant or lease guarantor bankruptcy could delay efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant leases, and could ultimately preclude full collection of these sums. Such an event could cause a decrease or cessation of rental payments which would mean a reduction in our cash flow and the amount available for distributions to our shareholders. In the event of a bankruptcy, we cannot assure our shareholders that the tenant or its trustee will assume our lease. If a given lease is not assumed, our cash flow and the amounts available for distributions to our shareholders may be adversely affected. The effects of recent tenant bankruptcies have triggered some co-tenancy clauses in certain other tenant leases. If an appropriate replacement tenant is not found within the allotted period of time, as an example 12 months, the co-tenancy provisions permit certain of these tenants to reduce their annual rents or terminate their lease. The reduction in cash flow from the bankrupt tenants and tenants exercising their co-tenancy clauses may have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Competition with third parties in acquiring properties will reduce our profitability and the return on an investment in our stock. We compete with many other entities engaged in real estate investment activities, many of which have greater resources than we do. Larger REITs may enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital and enhanced operating efficiencies. In addition, the number of entities and the amount of funds competing for suitable investment properties may increase. This will result in increased demand for these assets and therefore increased prices paid for them. If we pay higher prices for properties, our profitability is reduced and our shareholders will experience a lower return on their investment. We may fail to dispose of properties on favorable terms. Real estate investments can be illiquid, particularly as prospective buyers may experience increased costs of financing or difficulties obtaining financing, and could limit our ability to promptly make changes to our portfolio to respond to economic and other conditions. It may be difficult to buy and sell real estate quickly, or at all, and transfer restrictions apply to some of our properties. Equity real estate investments are relatively illiquid, and this characteristic tends to limit our ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. In addition, significant expenditures associated with each equity investment, such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investment. If income from a property declines while the related expenses do not decline, our income and cash available for distribution to our shareholders would be adversely affected. A sign ificant portion of our properties are mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness, and if we were unable to meet our mortgage payments, we could lose money as a result of foreclosure on the properties by the various mortgagees. In addition, if it becomes necessary or desirable for us to dispose of one or more of the mortgaged properties, we might not be able to obtain a release of the lien on the mortgaged property without payment of the associated debt. The foreclosure of a mortgage on a property or inability to sell a property could adversely affect the level of cash available for distribution to our shareholders. In certain transactions, if persons selling properties to us wish to defer the payment of taxes on the sales proceeds, we may elect to pay them in units of limited partnership interest in operating partnerships. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We cannot assure our shareholders that we will have funds available to correct such defects or to make such improvements. If we are unable to correct such defects, or make such investments, we may be unable to sell the asset or have to sell the asset at a reduced cost. In acquiring a property, we may agree to restrictions that prohibit the sale of that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property. These provisions would restrict our ability to sell a property. 12 Our properties are subject to competition for tenants and customers. We have and intend to continue to acquire properties located in developed areas. Therefore, there are numerous other retail properties within the market area of each of our properties which compete with our properties and which compete with us for tenants. The number of competitive properties could have a material effect on our ability to rent space at our properties and the amount of rents charged. We could be adversely affected if additional properties are built in locations near our properties, causing increased competition for customer traffic and creditworthy tenants. This could result in fewer tenants or decreased cash flow from tenants or both and may require us to make capital improvements to properties which we would not have otherwise made, thus affecting cash available for distributions, and th e amount available for distributions to our shareholders. We depend on leasing space to tenants on economically favorable terms and collecting rent from these tenants, who may not be able to pay. Our results of operations will depend on our ability to continue to lease space in our properties on economically favorable terms. If the sales of stores operating in our centers decline sufficiently, tenants might be unable to pay their existing minimum rents or expense recovery charges, since these rents and charges would represent a higher percentage of their sales. If our tenants’ sales decline, new tenants would be less willing to pay minimum rents as high as they would otherwise pay. In addition, as substantially all of our income is derived from rentals of real property, our income and cash available for distribution to our shareholders would be ad versely affected if a significant number of tenants were unable to meet their obligations to us. During times of economic recession, including the current economic downturn, these risks will increase. Bankruptcy or store closures of tenants may decrease our revenues or available cash. Our leases generally do not contain provisions designed to ensure the creditworthiness of the tenant, and a number of companies in the retail industry, including some of our tenants, have declared bankruptcy or voluntarily closed certain of their stores in recent years. The bankruptcy or closure of a major tenant, particularly an anchor tenant, may have a material adverse effect on the rental properties affected and the income produced by these properties and may make it substantially more difficult to lease the remainder of the affected rental properties. As a result, the bankruptcy or closure of a major tenant and potential additional closures as a result of co-tenancy provisions could result in a lower level of rev enues and cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Inflation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Should inflation increase in the future, we may experience any or all of the following: · decreasing tenant sales as a result of decreased consumer spending which could result in lower overage rents; · difficulty in replacing or renewing expiring leases with new leases at higher base and/or overage rents; · an inability to receive reimbursement from our tenants for their share of certain operating expenses, including common area maintenance, real estate taxes and insurance. Inflation also poses a potential threat to us due to the probability of future increases in interest rates. Such increases would adversely impact us with higher interest rates on new debt and our existing variable rate debt. The objectives of our partners in joint ventures may conflict with our objectives. We have made and may continue to make investments in joint ventures or other partnership arrangements between us and our joint venture partners. Investments in joint ventures which own real properties may involve risks otherwise not present when we purchase real properties directly. For example, our partners may file for bankruptcy protection, may have economic or business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our interests or goals, or may take actions contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or objectives. Among other things, actions by partners might subject real properties owned by the joint venture to liabilities greater than those contemplated by the terms of the joint venture or other adverse consequences. Real estate related taxes may increase and if these increases are not passed on to tenants, our net income will be reduced. Some local real property tax assessors reassess our properties as a result of our acquisition of the property. Generally, from time to time, our property taxes increase as property values or assessment rates change or for other reasons deemed relevant by the assessors. An increase in the assessed valuation of a property for real estate tax purposes will result in an increase in the related real estate taxes on that property. Although some leases may permit us to pass through such tax increases to the tenants for payment, there is no assurance that renewal leases or future leases will be negotiated on the same basis. Increases not passed through to the tenants will adversely affect our net income, cash available for distributions and the amount o f distributions to our shareholders. 13 Construction and development activities expose us to risks such as cost overruns, carrying costs of projects under construction or development, availability and costs of materials and labor, weather conditions and government regulation. In connection with construction and development activities, our development joint venture partners as well as our employees perform oversight and review functions. These functions include selecting sites, reviewing construction and tenant improvement design proposals, negotiating and contracting for feasibility studies, supervising compliance with local, state or federal laws and regulations, negotiating contracts, oversight of construction, accounting and obtaining financing. We retain independent general contractors to perform the actual physical construction work on tenant improvements or the installation of heating, ventilation and air condi tioning systems. These activities expose us to risks and potential cost recognition inherent in construction and development, including zoning, occupancy, governmental regulations, cost overruns, abandonment, carrying costs of projects under construction or development, availability and costs of materials and labor, inability to obtain financing or re-financings and adverse weather conditions. Development joint venture projects may expose us to greater risks than those associated with the acquisition of operating properties. We have entered into development joint venture arrangements with unaffiliated developers for the construction of shopping centers. Development joint ventures include risks which are different and, in most cases, greater than the risks associated with our acquisition of fully developed and operating properties. These development risks are in addition to general market risks and may include a completion of construction and principal guaranty from us to the construction lender and customary construction risks for circumstances beyond our reasonable control including, but not limited to, zoning risks and additional entitlement risks from the jurisdiction where the properties are located, leasing risks and construction delays. Bankruptcy of our developers could impose delays and costs on us with respect to the development retail properties. The bankruptcy of one of the developers in any of our development joint ventures could materially and adversely affect the relevant property or properties. If the relevant joint venture through which we have invested in a property has incurred recourse obligations, the discharge in bankruptcy of the developer may require us to honor a completion guarantee and therefore might result in our ultimate liability for a greater portion of those obligations than we would otherwise bear. If we suffer losses that are not covered by insurance or that are in excess of insurance coverage, we could lose invested capital and anticipated profits. Each tenant is responsible for insuring its goods and premises and, in some circumstances, may be required to reimburse us for a share of the cost of acquiring comprehensive insurance for the property, including casualty, liability, fire and extended coverage customarily obtained for similar properties in amounts which we determine are sufficient to cover reasonably foreseeable losses. Tenants on a net lease typically are required to pay all insurance costs associated with their space. Material losses may occur in excess of insurance proceeds with respect to any property and we may not have sufficient resources to fund any loss in excess of any insurance proceeds. However, there are types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as losses due to wars, acts of terrorism, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, pollution or environmental matters, which are either uninsurable or not economically insurable, or may be insured subject to limitations, such as large deductibles or co-payments. Insurance risks associated with potential terrorism acts could sharply increase the premium we pay for coverage against property and casualty claims. Additionally, mortgage lenders in some cases have begun to insist that specific coverage against terrorism be purchased by commercial property owners as a condition for providing mortgage loans. It is uncertain whether such insurance policies will be available, or available at reasonable cost, which could inhibit our ability to finance or refinance our properties. In such instances, we may be required to provide other financial support, either through financial assurances or self-insurance, to cover potential losses. We cannot assure our shareholders that we will have adequate coverage for such losses. Some of our properties are subject to potential natural or other disasters. A number of our properties are located in areas which are subject to natural disasters. In addition, many of our properties are located in coastal regions, and would therefore be effected by any future increases in sea levels or in the frequency or severity of hurricanes and tropical storms, whether such increases are caused by global climate changes or other factors. We may incur costs to comply with environmental laws. Under various federal, state or local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property, and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage or personal injuries and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by the parties in connection with the contamination. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of the hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may adversely affec t the owner’s ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real 14 estate as collateral. Other federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations require abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of demolition or certain renovations or remodeling, the cost of which may be substantial for some of our redevelopments and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. Federal and state laws also regulate the operation and removal of underground storage tanks. In connection with the ownership, operation and management of our properties, we could be held liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to these regulated substances or tanks or related claims. Our properties have been subjected to varying degrees of environmental assessment at various times. However, the identification of new areas of contamination, a change in the extent or known scope of contamination or changes in cleanup requirements could result in significant costs to us. Financing Risks We incur mortgage indebtedness and other borrowings, which reduce the funds available for distribution and increase the risk of loss since defaults may result in foreclosure. In addition, mortgages sometimes include cross-collateralization or cross-default provisions that increase the risk that more than one property may be affected by a default. We incur or increase our mortgage debt by obtaining loans secured by our real properties to obtain funds to acquire additional real properties. We may also borrow funds, if necessary, to satisfy the requirement that we distribute to our shareholders as dividends at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income, or otherwise as is necessary or advisable to assure that we maintain our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Currently, our aggregate borrowings secured by our properties are approximately 55% of the pro perties’ aggregate purchase prices. We incur mortgage debt on a particular real property if we believe the property's projected cash flow is sufficient to service the mortgage debt. However, if there is a shortfall in cash flow, then the amount available for distributions to our shareholders may be adversely affected. In addition, incurring mortgage debt increases the risk of loss since defaults on indebtedness secured by properties may result in foreclosure actions initiated by lenders and our loss of the property securing the loan which is in default. For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our properties would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but would not receive any cash proceeds. & nbsp;We may give full or partial guarantees to lenders who lend to the entities that own our properties. In such cases, we will be responsible to the lender for satisfaction of the debt if it is not paid by such entity. For any mortgages containing cross-collateralization or cross-default provisions, there is a risk that more than one real property may be affected by a default. We may not be able to obtain capital to make investments. We depend primarily on external financing to fund the growth of our business. This is because one of the requirements of the Code for a REIT generally is that it distribute its net capital gains or pay tax on 100% of its undistributed capital gains and distribute at least 90% of its ordinary taxable income to its shareholders. Our access to debt or equity financing depends on banks’ willingness to lend to us and on conditions in the capital markets in general. We and other companies in the real estate industry have experienced less favorable terms for bank loans and capital markets financing from time to time. Based on current market conditions, financing might not be a vailable on acceptable terms. If mortgage debt is unavailable at reasonable rates, we will not be able to place financing on the properties, which could reduce distributions per share. If we place mortgage debt on the properties, we run the risk of being unable to refinance the properties when the loans come due, or of being unable to refinance on favorable terms. If interest rates are higher when the properties are refinanced, our net income could be reduced, which would reduce cash available for distribution to our shareholders and may prevent us from borrowing more money. If property values decline, proceeds from refinancings may not be sufficient to retire existing debt. Beginning in the third quarter of 2007, a significant market deterioration, which originated in the sub-prime residential mortgage market and extended to the broader real estate credit markets, resulted in a tightening of lender underwriting standards and terms leading to an overall market recession in 2008. Given our substantial amount of indebtedness and the significant deterioration in the credit markets, there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance existing debt or obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms. In addition, our ability to refinance our debt on acceptable terms will likely be constrained further by any future increases in our aggregate amount of outstanding debt. Moreover, if market conditions or other factors lead our lenders to perceive an increased relative risk of our defaulting on a particular loan or loans, such len ders may seek to hedge against such risk which could further decrease our ability to obtain certain types of financing. 15 Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and operating flexibility. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2009, we had an aggregate consolidated indebtedness outstanding of $4,110,985. Aggregate indebtedness included $107,000 of secured, recourse indebtedness to us and $50,360 unsecured, non-recourse indebtedness to us, while $3,953,625 was secured by our properties and our equity interest in the entity owning the IW JV investment properties. A majority of the secured indebtedness is non-recourse to us. As a result of this substantial indebtedness, we are required to use a material portion of our cash flow to service principal and interest on our debt, which will limit the cash flow available for other desirable business oppor tunities. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to us and the value of our stock, including: · limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, execution of our growth strategy or other purposes; · limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to service the debt; · increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including increases in interest rates; · limiting our ability to capitalize on business opportunities, including the acquisition of additional properties, and to react to competitive pressures and adverse changes in government regulation; · limiting our ability or increasing the costs to refinance indebtedness, and · limiting our ability to enter into marketing and hedging transactions by reducing the number of counterparties with whom we can enter into such transactions as well as the volume of those transactions. The terms of our secured recourse credit agreement obtained in 2007 and amended in 2009, and certain other debt agreements, require us to satisfy certain customary affirmative and negative covenants and to meet financial ratios and tests including ratios and tests based on leverage, interest coverage, net worth and restricts our ability to incur recourse indebtedness. Given the restrictions in our debt covenants on these and other activities, we may be significantly limited in our operating and financial flexibility and may be limited in our ability to respond to changes in our business or competitive activities. A failure to comply with these covenants, including a failure to meet the financial tests or ratios, would likely result in an event of default under our credit agreement and would allow the lenders to accelerate payment under such agreement. If payment is accelerated, our unsecured assets may not be sufficient to repay such debt in full. We may have to reduce or eliminate our dividend. In the event we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, we will be required to repay such debt or pay higher debt service costs in connection with less attractive financing terms. In order to obtain the necessary cash for such payments, we may be compelled to take a number of actions, including the reduction or elimination of our dividend payments. Our amended credit agreement limits the common dividend to no more than the minimum level necessary to remain in compliance with the REIT regulations until March 31, 2010. Federal Income Tax Risks If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, our operations and distributions to shareholders will be adversely affected. We intend to operate so as to continue qualifying as a REIT under the Code. A REIT generally is not taxed at the corporate level on income it currently distributes to its shareholders. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex rules for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances is not entirely within our control and may affect our ability to qualify, or continue to qualify, as a REIT. In addition, future amendments to, or new enactments of, legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualifying as a REIT or the federal income tax cons equences of qualification. 16 If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year: · we would not be allowed to deduct distributions paid to shareholders when computing our taxable income; · we would be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; · we would be disqualified from being taxed as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we failed to qualify, unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions; · we would have less cash to pay distributions to shareholders, and · we may be required to borrow additional funds or sell some of our assets in order to pay corporate tax obligations we may incur as a result of being disqualified. In certain circumstances, we may be subject to federal, state and local taxes. Even if we qualify and maintain our status as a REIT, we may become subject to federal, state and local taxes as a REIT, which would reduce our cash available to pay distributions. For example, if we have net income from a “prohibited transaction,” such income will be subject to a 100% tax as defined in the REIT tax rules. We may not be able to make sufficient distributions to avoid excise taxes applicable to REITs. We may also decide to retain income we earn from the sale or other disposition of our property and pay income tax directly on such income. In that event, our shareholders would be treated as if they earned that income and paid the tax on it directly. However, shareholders that are tax-exempt, such as charities or qualified pension plans, would have to file tax returns to claim a refund of their deemed payment of such tax liability. In addition, we may also be subject to state and local taxes on our income, property or net worth, either directly or at the level of the operating partnership or at the level of the other companies through which we indirectly own our assets. Any federal or state and local taxes paid by us will reduce our cash available for distributions. An ownership limit and certain anti-takeover defenses and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us. Generally, for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Code, not more than 50% in vote or value of the outstanding shares of our capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of our taxable year. The Code defines “individuals” for purposes of the requirement described in the preceding sentence to include some types of entities. No person other than Mr. Daniel L. Goodwin, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of our former sponsor, his family and controlled entities own greater than 5% of our outstanding stock. The annual statement of value for shareholders subject to Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) and to certain other plan shareholders is only an estimate and may not reflect the actual value of our shares. The annual statement of estimated value for shareholders subject to ERISA and to certain other plan shareholders is only an estimate and may not reflect the actual value of our shares. The annual statement of estimated value is based on the estimated value of each share of common stock based as of the close of our fiscal year. The board of directors, in part, utilized third party sources and advice in estimating value, which reflects, among other things, the impact of the recent adverse trends in the economy and the real estate industry. Because this is only an estimate, we may subsequently revise any annual valuation that is provided. We cannot assure that: · this estimate of value could actually be realized by us or by our shareholders upon liquidation; · shareholders could realize this estimate of value if they were to attempt to sell their shares of common stock now or in the future; · this estimate of value reflects the price or prices at which our common stock would or could trade if it were listed on a national stock exchange or included for quotation on a national market system; or · the annual statement of value complies with any reporting and disclosure or annual valuation requirements under ERISA or other applicable law. In order for qualified plans to report account values as required by ERISA, we provide an estimated share value on an annual basis. As of December 31, 2009, the value for our shares was estimated for ERISA purposes to be $6.85 per share. 17 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 