Item 1A. Risk Factors Legislation and Regulation MPS is a regulated utility, operating its distribution activity under the jurisdiction of the Maine Public Utilities Commission and transmission activity under the jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. The MPUC and FERC regulate the rates MPS is allowed to charge its customers. This includes determination of our allowed rate of return and rate structure, construction and operation of facilities, approval of depreciation and amortization rates and recovery of certain incremental costs, such as storm damage. The timing of rate changes and the results of regulatory proceedings could materially impact our results. MPS adjusts its transmission rates annually; the most recent change was on July 1, 2008. The final settlement of 2008 transmission rates is not yet complete, and may result in an adjustment during 2009. Distribution and stranded cost rates did not change during 2008. In 2009, MPS anticipates the annual adjustments to its transmission rates on July 1, 2009, and a rate filing for stranded cost rates to be effective January 1, 2010. The change in any rates could have a positive or negative impact on earnings and cash flow, but the ultimate impact is unknown at this time. MPS does not anticipate any adjustments to distribution rates will occur in 2009. MPS is also subject to local regulations, which may impact the location of our transmission and distribution facilities, and our ability to make repairs and upgrades to our facilities. Other changes in legislation and regulation could impact MAM’s earnings and operations positively or negatively. Such changes could include changes in tax rates or changes in environmental or workplace laws. Construction of New Transmission Facilities As previously reported, MPS, working with CMP, has been seeking to develop the Maine Power Connection transmission line project (“MPC” or the “Project”). As originally proposed, the Project would include a 200-mile 345 kilovolt transmission line and new and upgraded substations to connect northern Maine to the ISO-NE control area. MPS became involved with this project coincident with a system impact study at ISO-NE. Interconnection requests in connection with proposed new generation projects triggered the study. As previously reported, recent developments have caused MPS to reevaluate the scope of the project, and to also consider alternative means of constructing a transmission line to allow MPS to interconnect its system with the New England Grid and to support renewable energy projects in its service territory. As reported in its January 16, 2009 Item 8.01 filing with the SEC and prior press release, Aroostook Wind Energy, LLC, a developer of wind energy project expected to interconnect to the MPC transmission line, filed a letter with the MPUC reporting that it wished to stop further system impact studies associated with its interconnection request and indicating that changes in the wholesale power market have rendered it uneconomic for it to invest in transmission infrastructure. However, AWE’s letter also indicated that it intends to continue its efforts to develop a wind project in Maine. 6 Table of Contents Also as previously reported, development of the 345kV transmission project will require local, state and federal regulatory approvals and permits. The status of certain of those required approvals is as follows: • Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity (“CPCN”): On July 1, 2008, MPS and CMP jointly filed with the MPUC for a CPCN related to the MPC project under MPUC Docket No. 2008-256. On January 21, 2009, in deliberations of the MPUC, the Commission voted to dismiss the petition without prejudice. • FERC Incentive Rates and Abandoned Plant Treatment: On November 17, 2008, FERC conditionally approved the requested incentive rate treatment and recovery of prudently incurred costs if the Project is abandoned as a result of factors beyond the control of MPS and CMP. The incentives are conditioned on the Project being included in ISO-New England’s Regional System Plan as a Market Efficiency Transmission Upgrade (“METU”). Also within the July 18, 2008, filing, MPS and CMP provided a Project cost estimate of $625 million, with MPS’s investment up to 30% of this amount, or $184 million. These were preliminary estimates of both the total project cost and MPS’s investment; actual cost and investment is dependent on many factors and could be materially higher or lower. Although FERC granted MPS the right to recover abandoned plant, an additional filing with FERC is required. This additional filing could be challenged, and may or may not result in recovery of all abandoned plant costs. MPS has currently deferred $757,000 of costs associated with the MPC project. • ISO-NE Membership: MPS has submitted notice to ISO-NE that, subject to certain conditions, it will seek to become a member of ISO-NE. Among the conditions is the requirement that the cost of the transmission project be included in the ISO-NE regional transmission rates. Approval of the Project as an METU by ISO-NE appears unlikely, and, therefore, MPS joining ISO-NE under the conditions of the notice are also unlikely. Further, even if the Project is determined to be an METU, it is possible that the conditions necessary for membership will not be met, which could impact our ability to develop this line. As reported in previous filings and based on the recent developments described above, the Company is revisiting the physical scope of the MPC Project and alternative means of developments. The Project and any of its alternatives are dependent on, among other factors, (i) the development of additional generation and the needs of generators in our service territory, and (ii) either of the following occurs – (a) MPS joins ISO-NE and ISO-NE socializes the line or (b) one or more generators agree to pay for the line. The inability to obtain regional socialization or agreements with generators, each on terms acceptable to MPS, is likely to have an impact on whether MPS and CMP construct the line, whether as originally proposed or in any alternative form. Other factors, such as cost and availability of materials, labor and subcontractors may increase the cost of the project or delay its completion. Financing Risk for New Transmission Facilities Assuming new transmission facilities are approved for construction, the Company will be seeking financing for the new transmission facilities referenced above. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to raise the significant amount of capital to construct new transmission facilities given, among other factors, (a) the uncertainty of financial markets, which is currently greater than normal, and (b) the fact that the amount to be financed is greater than the total assets of the Company (i.e., without any reduction for liabilities), which, as of December 31, 2008, are $135 million. Further, as described above, the final design, length and cost of the line would vary significantly depending on which option, if any, is ultimately developed. Other financing risks, including the type and cost of financing, are also risks in the development of this line. Risk from Joint Development Agreement The Joint Development Agreement which MPS entered into with CMP on October 2, 2008 in connection with the MPC project, sets forth numerous conditions for continued MPS participation in the Project. Failure to 7 Table of Contents meet such conditions in a timely fashion can result in various consequences, including a reduction in, or elimination of the interest which MPS may acquire in the Project. Reference is made to such Agreement, which was an exhibit to the MAM 8-K filed on October 8, 2008, for details of such conditions and consequences. Contract Risks at MAM USG There are risks when MAM USG secures contracts. Such risks include inaccuracy of cost estimates on fixed rate projects, change order approval risks and professional liability for engineering services. Factors mitigating these risks include Management’s experience with estimating utility engineering and construction costs, as well as professional liability insurance coverage. Attraction and Retention of Qualified Employees MPS and MAM USG heavily depend on the attraction and retention of qualified employees, including engineers and electricians. MAM maintains competitive wage and benefits packages for its employees, as well as certain third-party contractor arrangements to mitigate this risk. The inability to access enough qualified employees could result in deterioration of MPS’s service quality and MAM USG’s ability to compete in the marketplace. Economy of the Region and General Economic Conditions MPS operates in a territory restricted to Aroostook County and northern Penobscot County, Maine. Our business follows the economy of the region we serve. During 2007 and 2008, MPS experienced an increase in the number of disconnection notices to customers and payment arrangements for overdue bills. We also saw slower collections and an increase in uncollectible accounts during 2008. MPS has adjusted its reserve for uncollectible accounts based on the current indicators, and we will continue to closely monitor collection rates. However, with the final collection or write-off of the remaining TMGNE receivables during 2008, and the greater certainty of collection of MAM USG receivables, the reserve as a percentage of all accounts receivable is lower at December 31, 2008 than December 31, 2007. Limited population growth and economic expansion in the region could also negatively impact the utility’s ability to maintain their customer base. Potato farming and processing and the manufacturing of forest products, principally lumber, plywood, and oriented strand board, continue to be dominant economic forces within MPS’s service area. Temporary plant shutdowns and slow economic growth can reduce our earnings. Potential renewable energy and other generation projects in our service territory may mitigate these factors. Also, MPS participates in APP, a public/private partnership for economic progress. The efforts of APP are intended to increase the area’s emphasis on economic development. Competitive Conditions Except for consumers served by municipal electric utilities within MPS’s service area, MPS has a nearly exclusive franchise to deliver electric energy in its service territory. MPS has little exposure to risk from competition. MAM USG operates in competitive markets and does not have an exclusive franchise. Competition for contracts comes from local and regional electrical engineering firms, and utility construction contractors. Holding Company Structure MAM is a holding company whose main assets are its investments in its subsidiaries, particularly MPS. The Company’s ability to pay dividends on common stock and satisfy required principal and interest payments on outstanding debt obligations depends on dividends from subsidiaries. There are regulatory restrictions on the 8 Table of Contents amount of dividends MPS is allowed to pay MAM, particularly a provision limiting these dividends to 100% of the two-year rolling average of MPS’s net income. However, this limitation does not apply to the stranded cost free cash flows. Interest Rate and Debt Covenant Risk MAM and MPS have financial and other covenants on their financing arrangements. In the event of a default, the lenders could require immediate repayment of the debt. A default could also trigger increases in interest rates, difficulty obtaining other sources of financing and cross-default provisions with the debt agreements. The Company was in compliance with all debt covenants as of December 31, 2008. MAM and MPS have interest rate risk due to variable interest rates on financing arrangements. The Company has mitigated a portion of this risk by fixing interest rates on three MPS variable rate debt issues with a derivative interest rate swap transaction on September 9, 2003. Pension Plan Investments The MPS Pension Plan holds equity and fixed income investments. Changes in the stock market and accounting standards can materially impact MPS’s obligations under this plan, including the Plan’s impact on expense and cash flows. During 2008, the value of MPS’s pension plan assets decreased from approximately $17.3 million to $11.7 million. As a result, the estimated cash contributions have increased from $122,000 for 2008 to $941,000 for 2009. The Company has partly mitigated its risk through the freeze of future salary and service accruals under the Company’s Pension Plan, which went into effect on December 31, 2006. Information Technology Problems with computers and technology could result in billing errors or unintentional release of confidential consumer information. MAM goes to significant lengths to test its systems and protect against such events; however, the Company cannot warrant that such risks do not exist. Environmental Risks MAM, and particularly MPS, bear environmental risks associated with the former ownership of nuclear, diesel and oil-fired generation, as well as the ownership of transformers containing PCB. Further, MPS has potential risks concerning claims related to electro-magnetic fields. While the Company takes significant steps to ensure prudent environmental practices, it cannot assure that risks do not exist from past or future environmental practices. Additionally, while the Company does not believe electro-magnetic fields represent a current danger because it does not own bulk transmission, it cannot warrant that claims could not be filed. If the MPC Project is built, the Company will become a part owner of a bulk transmission line. Aging Infrastructure and Reliability MPS has risks associated with aging infrastructure assets that may, in some instances, be beyond the useful life of the asset. The failure of such assets could result in the loss of power, which could result in harm to property or person, increased expenses and/or a reduction in revenue. MPS works diligently through on-site inspection and testing programs to ensure the integrity of its infrastructure, but cannot warrant that outages will not occur due to the age of some infrastructure. MPS does maintain substantial back-up equipment and the capability to repair or rebuild such assets in a timely manner, including the maintenance of mobile transformers. MPS also increased its capital expenditures in 2007 and 2008 and its budgeted capital investments in 2009 to address this risk. 9 Table of Contents Weather MPS’s electric wires infrastructure is at risk to natural phenomena, especially those caused by the weather. Storms, such as ice storms and major winter snow storms, may have an impact on the integrity of MPS’s infrastructure assets in the field, requiring incremental maintenance expense or loss of potential earnings due to outages. Vandalism, Terrorism and Other Illegal Acts MPS is subject to the risks of damage to others’ properties or human harm due to the failure of infrastructure. While MPS exercises diligent asset management and asset inspections, it cannot warrant that such risks can be fully eliminated. MPS and its electric wires and information technology infrastructure are also particularly at risk for vandalism and acts of terrorism. While the Company takes steps to protect against such illegal acts through various risk insurance policies and other protective measures, including restricting access to assets, it cannot warrant that they will not happen. This risk also applies to certain third-party generation and other electrical facilities. As a transmission and distribution company, MPS is allowed to charge ratepayers for only the use of its lines and other T&D facilities. MPS bases this rate largely on energy consumption. An SOS or CES supplies the energy. The energy supplier facilities are subject to the same sort of risks as MPS facilities, including extreme weather conditions, breakdowns, acts of terrorism and other occurrences that could impact the availability of supply, and, in turn, MPS’s revenue. Alternative Generation Options MPS faces technology and product substitution risks associated with the evolution of distributed generation, non-utility generation, and other alternative fuel forms. The primary risk in this area is non-utility generation, with which the utility has successfully competed to date. However, as electric commodity prices increase, the viability of alternative fuel from non-utility generation may become more practical. Such projects could result in reduced usage of MPS’s delivery system. Professional Liability MAM, through its former engineering services firm TMG and its subsidiaries, remains subject to risks associated with engineering design errors and/or omissions. The sales of TMGC assets and the closure of TMGNE operations eliminated exposure on future projects, but MAM could still be liable for errors and omissions on past projects for several years. The Company carries insurance to mitigate these risks. As noted above, MAM USG provides construction, engineering and design services in connection with electric generation infrastructure projects, and, therefore, is subject to similar risks. 