ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Additional operating expenses relating to our expansion activities may reduce our profitability. We will incur additional expenses relating to our lending and branch expansion strategy. These expenses will be primarily salaries and employee benefits for the additional employees hired to staff our new offices and occupancy and equipment relating to our two full-service branch offices that opened in mid-2006 and our full-service branch office in Knoxville, Tennessee that opened in July 2007. Initially, we expect that these expenses will be greater than the additional income that we generate through our new facilities. Over time, we anticipate that we will generate sufficient income to offset the expenses related to our new facilities and new employees, although we cannot guarantee when that will occur. We may not be able to implement successfully our plans for growth. We have operated out of our main office and two drive-through facilities in Morristown, Tennessee since 1963 and have historically considered Hamblen County to be our primary market area. Recently, our management began to implement a growth strategy that expands our presence in Morristown, as well as into Knoxville, Tennessee, approximately 40 miles southwest of Morristown. In mid-2006, we opened two full-service branch offices, one in Morristown and one in Knoxville. In addition, we opened a second full-service branch office in Knoxville in July 2007. In connection with these new branches, we will have, among others, construction expenses, as well as the cost of equipment and hiring new employees. 13 Table of Contents Our expansion strategy may not be accretive to earnings, or that our strategy will be accretive to earnings within a reasonable period of time. Numerous factors will affect our expansion strategy, such as our ability to select suitable office locations, real estate acquisition costs, competition, interest rates, managerial resources, our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel, the effectiveness of our marketing strategy and our ability to attract deposits. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in increasing the volume of our loans and deposits by expanding our lending and branch network. Building and staffing new offices will increase our operating expenses. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to manage the costs and implementation risks associated with this strategy so that expansion of our lending and branch network will be profitable. A downturn in the local economy or a decline in real estate values could hurt our earnings. The success of our business depends on our ability to generate profits and grow our franchise. We are located in Morristown, Tennessee and consider Hamblen County, with a population of 60,000, and its contiguous counties to be our primary market area, although we are currently expanding into the Knoxville region. The economy of the Hamblen County market area is based primarily on manufacturing and agriculture. Our primary lending activity is the origination of loans secured by real estate. Nearly all of these loans are made to borrowers who live and work in our primary market area. As a result, a downturn in the local economy could cause significant increases in nonperforming loans, which would hurt our earnings. Decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for our loans which would expose us to a greater risk of loss. In addition, adverse employment conditions may have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans and on our ability to make new loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. Rising interest rates may hurt our earnings and asset value. Short-term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to our price deposits) have recently risen from historically low levels, while longer-term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our longer-term loans) have not. This “flattening” of the market yield curve has had a negative impact on our interest rate spread and net interest margin, and if short-term interest rates continue to rise, and if rates on our deposits and borrowings continue to reprice upwards faster than the rates on our long-term loans and investments, we would continue to experience compression of our interest rate spread and net interest margin, which would have a negative effect on our profitability. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest-earnings assets, and in particular our securities portfolio. Generally, the value of fixed-rate securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of equity, net of tax. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and at times has forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. As of June 30, 2006, we held 23.4% of the deposits in Hamblen County, which is the second largest market share out of nine financial institutions with offices in the county at that date. However, banks owned by SunTrust Banks, Inc., First Tennessee National Corporation and Regions Financial Corporation, all of which are large regional bank holding companies, also operate in Hamblen County. These institutions are significantly larger than us and, therefore, have significantly greater resources. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. 14 Table of Contents Our commercial real estate, commercial business and multi-family real estate loans expose us to increased lending risks. At June 30, 2007, $136.7 million, or 49.3%, of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate, commercial business and multi-family real estate loans. Commercial real estate and multi-family real estate loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Commercial business loans expose us to additional risks because they typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayments from the cash flow of the borrower’s business and are secured by collateral that may depreciate over time. All three of these types of loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Because such loans generally entail greater risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses in the future to account for the likely increase in probable incurred credit losses associated with the growth of such loans. Also, many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. We may require further additions to our allowance for loan losses, which would reduce net income. If our borrowers do not repay their loans or if the collateral securing their loans is insufficient to provide for the full repayment, we may suffer credit losses. Credit losses are inherent in the lending business and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for loan losses based on a number of factors. If our assumptions and judgments are wrong, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover our losses. If we determine that our allowance for loan losses is insufficient, we would be required to take additional provisions for loan losses, which would reduce net income during the period those provisions are taken. In addition, the Office of Thrift Supervision periodically reviews our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or to charge off particular loans. Loss of our President and Chief Executive Officer could hurt our operations. We rely heavily on our President and Chief Executive Officer, Anderson L. Smith. The loss of Mr. Smith could have an adverse effect on us because, as a small community bank, Mr. Smith is responsible for more aspects of our business than he might be at a larger financial institution with more employees. Moreover, as a small community bank, we have fewer management-level employees who are in a position to succeed and assume the responsibilities of Mr. Smith. We have entered into a three-year employment agreement with Mr. Smith. We do not have key-man life insurance on Mr. Smith. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, our chartering authority, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of our deposits. As a savings and loan holding company, Jefferson Bancshares is subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 15 Table of Contents 