Item 1a. Risk Factors As with all companies, MAM is exposed to certain risk factors as a result of its operations. MAM has identified the following key risk factors for the Company as a whole and also specific to the regulated and unregulated industries in which MAM and its subsidiaries operate. Overall Risks The following risks pertain to MAM as a whole, regardless of the industry in which a particular subsidiary is operating. 6 Strategic Risk Management and the Board have revised the strategic direction of the Company, refocusing on growth of the core utility, and as described more fully in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis.” This corporate strategy includes many risks, including equity risk associated with changing shareholder base dependent on strategy chosen, the risk of not being able to identify sufficient growth opportunities within the utility industry and the risks inherent in any change in strategy from redistribution of resources and the time required to catch traction. In addition, changes in legislation and regulation could impact the success of the strategy as outlined below. Liquidity and Capital Formation Risk MAM’s current liabilities of $24.71 million as of December 31, 2006, exceed its current assets of $13.53 million by $11.18 million, exposing MAM to the risk of being unable to fulfill its obligations in 2007. However, of these current liabilities, $12.97 million represents short-term borrowings, including the lines of credit with Bank of America and Katahdin Trust Company. MAM has taken steps to mitigate this short-term risk before and after year-end, including identification of options to reduce or defer costs. In the long term, Management expects MAM’s cash flow to improve, with MPS’s recovery of deferred fuel costs currently deferred by MPS. Until 2007, the cash expenditures for deferred fuel exceeded the recovery of stranded costs. With the expiration of the Wheelabrator-Sherman contract in December 2006, this position has reversed, and recovery of stranded costs will exceed the cash outflows. These stranded cost free cash flows can be used, in part, to help fulfill these obligations. Resignation of CEO MAM’s former Chief Executive Officer resigned in August 2006. The Company faces risks of instability and uncertainty during the current transition period until the Board selects a new CEO. The Company has mitigated these risks by reallocating the CEO’s work and responsibilities to certain interim officers. Interest Rate and Debt Covenant Risk MAM, TMG and MPS have financial and other covenants on their financing arrangements. In the event of a default, the lenders could require immediate repayment of the debt. This could also trigger increases in interest rates, difficulty obtaining other sources of financing and cross-default provisions with the debt agreements. As of December 31, 2006, MAM and TMG did not meet the interest coverage ratios required by these debt covenants. Both Bank of America and Katahdin Trust Company provided waivers for compliance with the debt covenants for the fourth quarter of 2006. MAM and TMG experienced increases in their interest rates on the $4.0 million line of credit with Bank of America, and the $1.0 million line of credit with Katahdin Trust Company, as a result of failing to comply with the interest coverage ratio required by the debt covenants on these lines in 2006. Management is mitigating the risk of future increases through the re-negotiation of the debt covenants to consider the anticipated divestitures of TMG and MTI. MAM, TMG, Maricor Properties and MPS each have interest rate risk due to variable interest rates on financing arrangements. The Company has mitigated a portion of this risk by fixing interest rates on three MPS variable rate debt issues with a derivative interest rate swap transaction on September 9, 2003. See Item 8 of this Form 10-K, Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss),” which is hereby incorporated by this reference, for a discussion on the impact on MPS’s financial statements and further description of the interest rate swaps. 7 Attraction and Retention of Qualified Employees MAM primarily operates in service sectors, and is heavily dependent on the attraction and retention of qualified employees, including engineers and electricians. MAM maintains competitive wage and benefits packages for its employees to aid in attracting and retaining staff. Equity Price Risk The Maricor Group incurred equity price risk when it bought the stock of certain of its subsidiaries. Part of the consideration was MAM stock. In the event that the price of MAM common stock is below a specified price when the seller wishes to dispose of it, TMGC has agreed to pay the difference. There were 27,723 shares outstanding pursuant to this kind of agreement as of December 31, 2006. At a market price of $15.18 per share on that date, the total exposure was approximately $606,000. A $1 decrease in MAM’s stock price would increase this obligation by approximately $28,000. A $1 increase in MAM’s stock price would decrease this obligation by approximately $28,000. Market price protection of a different sort was given by Maricor Technologies when it acquired the HCI assets. Part of the consideration for that acquisition was MAM preferred stock which is convertible into 26,000 shares of MAM common stock on February 9, 2009, subject to certain adjustments. To the extent that the market price of MAM common stock is then below $25 per share, the number of shares issuable on conversion is ratably increased, which could result in further dilution of MAM’s common stock. Legislation and Regulation Changes in legislation and regulation could impact MAM’s earnings and operations positively or negatively. Such changes could include changes in tax rates, changes in environmental or workplace laws or changes in regulation of cross-border transactions. General Economic Conditions MAM, like all other entities, is exposed to a certain amount of risk as a result of the general economic conditions under which it operates. Such risks include the overall economy of the geographic region in which the entity operates and risk of inflation. Collections Risk MAM’s subsidiaries sometimes extend credit to their customers. This may be regulated, as in the case of MPS, or under the terms of contracts or leases. In these situations, MAM bears the risk that it may not collect these funds. MAM partly mitigates this risk through the use of credit checks and monitoring of the accounts receivable aging. MAM also maintains an allowance for uncollectible accounts for accounts receivable that are unlikely to be collected. Information Technology MAM is subject to systemic risks associated with information technology systems that could impact the calculative outcome of billing determinations or the unintended release of confidential consumer information. MAM goes to significant lengths to stress test its systems and protect against such events; however, the Company cannot warrant that such risks do not exist. Regulated Utility The following are risks unique to the regulated utility. These risks will continue in the foreseeable future, and, in some cases, be more significant risks than experienced in the past, due to the strategic focus on the regulated entity. 8 Legislation and Regulation MPS is a regulated utility, operating its distribution activity under the jurisdiction of the Maine Public Utilities Commission and transmission activity under the jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. The MPUC and FERC regulate the rates MPS is allowed to charge its customers. MPS was involved in rate cases in 2006 to determine each of its rates: distribution rates under MPUC Docket No. 2006-024, revision of the transmission rate formula and establishment of the 2006 transmission rates under FERC Docket No. ER00-1053, and recovery of stranded costs for the period from January 1, 2007, through December 31, 2009, under MPUC Docket No. 2006-506. The only rates anticipated to change in 2007 are the transmission rates, which will be determined based on the formula established in FERC Docket No. ER00-1503. The change in these rates could have a positive or negative impact on earnings and cash flow, but the ultimate impact is unknown at this time. Further, execution of certain components of the Company’s utility-centric strategy is dependent on regulatory approval to participate in certain projects over the next several years, including efforts to improve competition in MPS’s northern Maine service territory. Management cannot warrant the Company will be successful in obtaining these approvals. Economy of the Region MPS operations are restricted to a territory in Aroostook County and northern Penobscot County, Maine. Limited population growth and economic expansion in the region could negatively impact the utility’s ability to maintain this customer base. MPS has been actively involved with the Aroostook Partnership for Progress, an organization with the mission of enhancing the economy in Aroostook County. Environmental Risks MAM, and particularly MPS, bear environmental risks associated with the former ownership of nuclear, diesel and oil fired generation, as well as the ownership of transformers containing Poly Chlorinated Bi-phenols (“PCB’s”). Further, MPS has potential risks concerning claims related to electro-magnetic fields (“EMF’s”). While the Company takes significant steps to ensure prudent environmental practices, it cannot assure that risks do not exist from past or future environmental practices. Additionally, while the Company does not believe EMF’s represent a danger, particularly due to its lack of ownership of bulk transmission, it cannot warrant that claims could not be filed. Aging Infrastructure and Reliability MPS has risks associated with aging infrastructure assets that may in some instances be beyond the useful life of the asset. The failure of such assets could result in the loss of power that could result in harm to property or person. MPS works diligently through on-site inspection and testing programs to ensure the integrity of its infrastructure, but cannot warrant that outages will not occur due to the age of some infrastructure. MPS does maintain substantial back-up equipment and the capability to repair or rebuild such assets in a timely manner, including the maintenance of mobile transformers, and has increased its capital budget for 2007 to also address this risk. Weather MPS’s electric wires infrastructure is at risk to natural phenomena, especially those caused by the weather. Storms, such as ice storms and major winter snow storms may have an impact on the integrity of MPS’s infrastructure assets in the field. 9 Vandalism, Terrorism and Other Illegal Acts MPS is subject to the risks of damage to others’ properties or human harm due to the failure of infrastructure. While MPS exercises diligent asset management and asset inspections, it cannot warrant that such risks can be fully eliminated. MPS and its electric wires and information technology infrastructure are also particularly at risk to vandalism and acts of terrorism. While the Company takes steps to protect against such illegal acts through various risk insurance policies and other protective measures, including restricting access to assets, it cannot warrant that they will not happen. Alternative Generation Options MPS does face technology and product substitution risks associated with the evolution of distributed generation, non-utility generation, and other alternative fuel forms. The primary risk in this area is non-utility generation, which the utility has successfully competed with to date. However, as electric commodity prices increase, the viability of alternative fuel from non-utility generation may become more practical. Such projects could result in reduced usage of MPS’s delivery system. Unregulated Segments These risks are specific to the unregulated engineering, software technology and real estate entities, and will be either eliminated or significantly reduced, pending the divestiture of these companies. Divestiture of Unregulated Segments MAM intends to divest its unregulated operations. This process involves many risks, including but not limited to identification of suitable purchasers, completion of due diligence, negotiation of the terms of the sale and the ability to transfer contracts. MAM is attempting to mitigate these risks by engaging a third party to assist in the divestiture process. The estimated loss recorded in MAM’s 2006 Statement of Operations is based on the estimated sales price and estimated cost of the sales process. Management used the most reasonable assumptions available at this time to calculate the estimated loss; however, actual results could differ from these estimates. Legislation and Regulation Changes in legislation and regulation could impact TMG’s earnings and operations positively or negatively. For The Maricor Group, public policies related to energy, energy efficiency, asset lifecycle management, and air emissions may impact the overall market, particularly the governmental sectors. Foreign Operations Several MAM subsidiaries such as Maricor Properties, including its subsidiaries Mecel Properties Ltd and Cornwallis Court Developments Ltd and its joint venture Maricor Ashford Ltd, and The Maricor Group, Canada, operate in Canada. There are a number of risks associated with operations outside of the United States, including differences in laws, policies and measures; regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment; differences in social, political, labor, and economic conditions, including foreign exchange rates; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; and potential adverse foreign tax consequences. Economy of the Region The Maricor Group and its subsidiaries generally operate within Atlantic Canada and New England. The nature of work available may differ depending on various economic and political conditions, including cost of energy, interest rates, and other factors. 10 Franchises and Competition The Maricor Group, Canada Ltd and The Maricor Group New England operate in competitive markets and do not have exclusive franchises. Competition for contracts comes from local, regional and mechanical and electrical engineering firms, as well as local, regional or national energy services, energy asset development and energy controls companies. Maricor Properties Ltd, Cornwallis Court Developments Ltd and Mecel Properties Ltd compete in the open market for tenants for facilities owned and operated by these subsidiaries. Competition is driven by per square foot lease costs, operating costs, quality of the work environment, availability of parking, management services and other factors that could influence a tenant to lease office space. These companies have greatly mitigated this risk with their existing long-term leases for tenants. Maricor Technologies, Inc. competes in the open market and does not have an exclusive franchise. Factors affecting its market include the economic needs of facilities owners, the age of facilities infrastructure, the availability or lack thereof of capital, public policies and other issues. It competes with existing and potential additional providers and/or developers of similar software solutions. Maintaining the market viability of their software assets through product enhancements and new versions is a critical part of ensuring its market competitiveness. Additionally, its ability to expand its product offerings, to address a more comprehensive array of facility infrastructure information management and planning needs, may impact its competitiveness. Professional Liability The Maricor Group and its subsidiaries are subject to risks associated with engineering design errors and/or omissions. The Company carries insurance to address errors and omissions to mitigate certain risks. Technological Obsolescence Due to the nature of its business, Maricor Technologies is subject to risks associated with changing technologies and obsolescence of its products. As a result, MTI monitors technology and competitor trends to ensure its product offerings remain market competitive. 