Item 1A. Risk Factors In evaluating our company, careful consideration should be given to the following risk factors, in addition to the other information included in this Annual Report. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business operating results and/or financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. In addition to the following disclosures, please refer to the other information contained in this report including the consolidated financial statement and the related notes. General Investment Risks Our common stock is not currently listed on an exchange or trading market and cannot be readily sold. There is currently no public trading market for the shares and we cannot assure investors that one will develop. We may never list the shares for trading on a national stock exchange or include the shares for quotation on a national market system. The absence of an active public market for our shares could impair an investor’s ability to sell our stock at a profit or at all. By September 15, 2008, our board of directors will determine whether it is in our best interests to apply to have the shares listed on a national stock exchange or included for quotation on a national market system if we meet the applicable listing requirements at that time. There are conflicts of interest between us and our affiliates. Our operation and management including acquisition of properties may be influenced or affected by conflicts of interest arising out of our relationship with our affiliates. Our business manager/advisor and its affiliates are or will be engaged in other activities that will result in potential conflicts of interest with the services that the business manager/advisor and affiliates will provide to us. Those affiliates could take actions that are more favorable to other entities than to us. The resolution of conflicts in favor of other entities could have a n egative impact on our financial performance. Specific conflicts of interest between us and our affiliates include: · Our business manager/advisor and its affiliates receive fees and other compensation based upon our investments and therefore our business manager/advisor and its affiliates may recommend that we make investments in order to increase their compensation. Our business manager/advisor and its affiliates receive fees and other compensation based upon our investments. They benefit by us retaining ownership of our assets and leveraging our assets, while investors may be better served by sale or disposition or not leveraging the assets. In addition, our business manager/advisor's ability to receive fees and reimbursements depends on our continued investment in properties and in other assets which generate fees. Our business manager/advisor receives fees based on the book value including acquired intangibles of the properties under management . Our property managers receive fees based on the revenues from properties under management. Therefore, our business manager/advisor and/or property managers may recommend that we purchase properties that generate fees for our business manager/advisor and property managers, but are not necessarily the most suitable investment for our portfolio. In addition, our affiliates, who receive fees, including our -4- business manager/advisor, may recommend that we acquire properties, which may result in our incurring substantive amounts of indebtedness. Therefore, the interest of our business manager/advisor and its affiliates in receiving fees may conflict with our ability to earn income and may result in our incurring substantive amounts of indebtedness. The resolution of this conflict of interest may adversely impact our cash flow and our ability to pay distributions. · There is competition for the time and services of our business manager/advisor and our business manager/advisor may not dedicate the time necessary to manager our business. We rely on our business manager/advisor and its affiliates for our daily operation and the management of our assets. Our officers and other personnel of our business manager/advisor and its affiliates have conflicts in allocating their management time, services and functions among the real estate investment programs they currently service and any future real estate investment programs or other business ventures which they may organize or serve. Those personnel could take actions that are more favorable to other entities than to us. The resolution of conflicts in favor of other entities could have a negative impact on our financial performance. · We do not have arm's-length agreements, which could contain terms which are not in our best interest. Our agreements and arrangements with our business manager/advisor and property managers or any of its affiliates, including those relating to compensation, are not the result of arm's length negotiations. These agreements may contain terms that are not in our best interest and would not otherwise be applicable if we entered into arm's-length agreements. We depend on our board of directors, business manager/advisor and property managers and losing those relationships could negatively affect our operations. Our board of directors has supervisory control over all aspects of our operations. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives will depend to a large extent on the board's ability to oversee, and the quality of, the management provided by the business manager/advisor, the property managers, their affiliates and employees for day-to-day operations. Therefore, we depend heavily on the ability of the business manager/advisor and its affiliates to retain the services of each of its executive officers and key employees. However, none of these individuals has an employment agreement with the business manager/advisor or its affiliates. The loss of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on us. These individuals include Daniel L. Goodwin, Robert H. Baum, G. Joseph Cosenza, Robert D. Parks, Thomas P. McGuinness, Roberta S. Matlin and Brenda G. Gujral. Our share repurchase program is limited to 5% of the weighted average number of shares of our stock outstanding during the prior calendar year and may be changed or terminated by us, thereby reducing the potential liquidity of a stockholder’s investment. In accordance with our share repurchase program, a maximum of 5% of the weighed average number of shares of our stock outstanding during the prior calendar year may be repurchased by us. This standard limits the number of shares we can purchase. Our board of directors also has the ability to change or terminate, at any time, our share repurchase program. If we terminate or modify our share repurchase program or if we do not have sufficient funds available to repurchase all shares that our stockholders request to repurchase, then our stockholders' ability to liquidate their shares will be diminished. General Real Estate Risks There are inherent risks with real estate investments. All real property investments are subject to some degree of risk. Equity real estate investments cannot be quickly converted to cash. This limits our ability to promptly vary our portfolio in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions. Real property investments are also subject to adverse changes in general economic conditions or local conditions which reduce the demand for rental space. Other factors also affect real estate values, including: · possible federal, state or local regulations and controls affecting rents, prices of goods, fuel and energy consumption and prices, water and environmental restrictions; · increasing labor and material costs; and · the attractiveness of the property to tenants in the neighborhood. The yields available from equity investments in real estate depend in large part on the amount of rental income earned, as well as property operating expenses and other costs we incur. If our properties do not generate revenues sufficient to meet -5- operating expenses, we may have to borrow amounts to cover fixed costs, and our cash available for distributions may be adversely affected. Adverse economic conditions could reduce our income and distributions to investors. Our properties are primarily retail establishments. The economic performance of our properties could be affected by changes in local economic conditions. Our performance is therefore linked to economic conditions in areas where we have acquired or intend to acquire properties and in the market for retail space generally. Therefore, to the extent that there are adverse economic conditions in an area and in the market for retail space generally that impact the market rents for retail space, such conditions could result in a reduction of our income and cash available for distributions and thus affect the amount of distributions we can make to our stockholders. In addition, we own and operate predominantly grocery and discount anchored retail centers. To the extent that the investing public has a negative perception of the retail sector, the value of our common stock may be negatively impacted. · If our tenants are unable to make rental payments, if their rental payments are reduced, or if they terminate a lease, our financial condition and ability to pay distributions will be adversely affected. We are subject to the risk that tenants, as well as lease guarantors, if any, may be unable to make their lease payments or may decline to extend a lease upon its expiration. A default by a tenant, the failure of a guarantor to fulfill its obligations or other premature termination of a lease, or a tenant's election not to extend a lease upon its expiration, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to pay distributions. · Our financial condition and ability to make distributions may be adversely affected by the bankruptcy or insolvency, a downturn in the business, or a lease termination of a tenant that occupies a large area of the retail center (commonly referred to as an anchor tenant). Any anchor tenant, a tenant that is an anchor tenant at more than one retail center, or a tenant of any of the single-user net lease properties may become insolvent, may suffer a downturn in business, or may decide not to renew its lease. Any of these events would result in a reduction or cessation in rental payments to us and would adversely affect our financial condition. A lease termination by an anchor tenant could result in lease terminations or reductions in rent by other tenants whose leases permit cancellation or rent reduction if an anchor tenant's lease is terminated. In certain properties where th ere are large tenants, other tenants may require that if certain large tenants or "shadow" tenants discontinue operations, a right of termination or reduced rent may exist. In such event, we may be unable to re-lease the vacated space. Similarly, the leases of some anchor tenants may permit the anchor tenant to transfer its lease to another retailer. The transfer to a new anchor tenant could cause customer traffic in the retail center to decrease and thereby reduce the income generated by that retail center. A transfer of a lease to a new anchor tenant could also allow other tenants to make reduced rental payments or to terminate their leases at the retail center. If we are unable to re-lease the vacated space to a new anchor tenant, we may incur additional expenses in order to re-model the space to be able to re-lease the space to more than one tenant. · If a tenant claims bankruptcy, we may be unable to collect balances due under relevant leases. Any or all of the tenants, or a guarantor of a tenant's lease obligations, could be subject to a bankruptcy proceeding pursuant to Title 11 of the bankruptcy laws of the United States. Such a bankruptcy filing would bar all efforts by us to collect pre-bankruptcy debts from these entities or their properties, unless we receive an enabling order from the bankruptcy court. Post-bankruptcy debts would be paid currently. If a lease is assumed, all pre-bankruptcy balances owing under it must be paid in full. If a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, we would have a general unsecured claim for damages. If a lease is rejected, it is unlikely we would receive any payments from the tenant because our claim is capped at the rent reserved under the lease, without acceleration, for the greater of one year or 15% of the remaining term of the lease, but not greater than three years, plus rent already due but unpaid. This claim could be paid only in the event funds were available, and then only in the same percentage as that realized on other unsecured claims. A tenant or lease guarantor bankruptcy could delay efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant leases, and could ultimately preclude full collection of these sums. Such an event could cause a decrease or cessation of rental payments which would mean a reduction in our cash flow and the amount available for distributions to you. In the event of a bankruptcy, we cannot assure stockholders that the tenant or its trustee will assume our lease. If a given lease, or guaranty of a lease, is not assumed, our cash flow and the amounts available for distributions to stockholders may be adversely affected. -6- Competition with third parties in acquiring properties will reduce our profitability and the return on an investment in our common stock. We compete with many other entities engaged in real estate investment activities, many of which have greater resources than we do. Larger REITs may enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital and enhanced operating efficiencies. In addition, the number of entities and the amount of funds competing for suitable investment properties may increase. This will result in increased demand for these assets and therefore increased prices paid for them. If we pay higher prices for properties, our profitability is reduced and investors will experience a lower return on their investment. Our properties are subject to competition for tenants and customers. We have and intend to continue to acquire properties located in developed areas. Therefore, there are numerous other retail properties within the market area of each of our properties which compete with our properties and which compete with us for tenants. The number of competitive properties could have a material effect on our ability to rent space at our properties and the amount of rents charged. We could be adversely affected if additional competitive properties are built in locations competitive with our properties, causing increased competition for customer traffic and creditworthy tenants. This could result in decreased cash flow from tenants and may require us to make capital improvements to properties which we would not have otherwise made, thus affecting cash available for distributions, and the amount available for distributions to stockholders. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We cannot assure our investors that we will have funds available to correct such defects or to make such improvements. In acquiring a property, we may agree to restrictions that prohibit the sale of that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property. These provisions would restrict our ability to sell a property. If we invest in joint ventures, the objectives of our partners may conflict with our objectives. We may make investments in joint ventures or other partnership arrangements between us and our affiliates or with unaffiliated third parties. Investments in joint ventures which own real properties may involve risks otherwise not present when we purchase real properties directly. For example, our co-venturer may file for bankruptcy protection, may have economic or business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our interests or goals, or may take actions contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or objectives. Among other things, actions by a co-venturer might subject real properties owned by the joint venture to liabilities greater than those contemplated by the terms of the joint venture or other adverse consequences. Real estate related taxes may increase and if these increases are not passed on to tenants, our net income will be reduced. Some local real property tax assessors reassess our properties as a result of our acquisition of the property. Generally, from time to time, our property taxes increase as property values or assessment rates change or for other reasons deemed relevant by the assessors. An increase in the assessed valuation of a property for real estate tax purposes will result in an increase in the related real estate taxes on that property. Although some tenant leases may permit us to pass through such tax increases to the tenants for payment, there is no assurance that renewal leases or future leases will be negotiated on the same basis. Increases not passed through to tenants will adversely affect our net income, cash available for distributions, and the amount of distributions to stockholders. Construction and development activities expose us to risks such as cost overruns, carrying costs of projects under construction or development, availability and costs of materials and labor, weather conditions and government regulation. In connection with construction and development activities, we have employees of our affiliates perform oversight and review functions. These functions include selecting sites, reviewing construction and tenant improvement design proposals, negotiating and contracting for feasibility studies, supervising compliance with local, state or federal laws and regulations, negotiating contracts, oversight of construction, accounting and obtaining financing. We retain independent general contractors to perform the actual physical construction work on tenant improvements or the installation of heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems. These activities expose us to risks inherent in construction and development, including cost overruns, carrying costs of projects under construction or development, availability and costs of materials and labor, adverse weather conditions an d governmental regulation. If we enter into development joint venture projects, they expose us to greater risks than those associated with the acquisition of operating properties. We have entered and plan to continue to enter into development joint venture arrangements with unaffiliated developers for the construction of shopping centers. Development joint ventures include risks which are different and, in most cases, greater than the risks associated with our acquisition of fully developed and operating properties. These development risks are in addition to general market risks and may include a completion of -7- construction and principal guaranty from us to the construction lender and customary construction risks for circumstances beyond our reasonable control including, but not limited to, zoning risks and additional entitlement risks from the jurisdiction where the properties are located, leasing risks and construction delays. If we suffer losses that are not covered by insurance or that are in excess of insurance coverage, we could lose invested capital and anticipated profits. Each tenant is responsible for insuring its goods and premises and, in some circumstances, may be required to reimburse us for a share of the cost of acquiring comprehensive insurance for the property, including casualty, liability, fire and extended coverage customarily obtained for similar properties in amounts which our business manager/advisor determines are sufficient to cover reasonably foreseeable losses. Tenants on a net lease typically are required to pay all insurance costs associated with their space. Material losses may occur in excess of insurance proceeds with respect to any property as insurance may not have sufficient resources to fund the losses. However, there are types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as losses due to wars, acts of terrorism, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, pollution or environmental matters, which are either uninsurable or not economically insurable, or may be insured subject to limitations, such as large deductibles or co-payments. Insurance risks associated with potential terrorism acts could sharply increase the premium we pay for coverage against property and casualty claims. Additionally, mortgage lenders in some cases have begun to insist that specific coverage against terrorism be purchased by commercial property owners as a condition for providing mortgage loans. It is uncertain whether such insurance policies will be available, or available at reasonable cost, which could inhibit our ability to finance or refinance our potential properties. In such instances, we may be required to provide other financial support, either through financial assurances or self-insurance, to cover potential losses. We cannot assure our stockholders that we will have adequate coverage for such losses. Financing Risks We incur mortgage indebtedness and other borrowings, which reduce the funds available for distribution and increase the risk of loss since defaults may result in foreclosure. In addition, mortgages sometimes include cross-collateralization or cross-default provisions that increase the risk that more than one property may be affected by a default. We incur or increase our mortgage debt by obtaining loans secured by our real properties to obtain funds to acquire additional real properties. We may also borrow funds if necessary to satisfy the requirement that we distribute to stockholders as dividends at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income, or otherwise as is necessary or advisable to assure that we maintain our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Currently, our aggregate borrowings secured by our properties are approximately 55% of the properties’ aggregate purchase prices. We incur mortgage debt on a particular real property if we believe the property's projected cash flow is sufficient to service the mortgage debt. However, if there is a shortfall in cash flow, then the amount available for distributions to stockholders may be affected. In addition, incurring mortgage debt increases the risk of loss since defaults on indebtedness secured by properties may result in foreclosure actions initiated by lenders and our loss of the property securing the loan which is in default. For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our properties would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but would not receive any cash proceeds. We may give full or partial guarantees to lenders of mortgage debt to the entity that owns our properties. In such cases, we will be responsible to the lender for satisfaction of the debt if it is not paid by such entity. For any mortgages containing cross-collateralization or cross-default provisions, there is a risk that more than one real property may be affected by a default. If mortgage debt is unavailable at reasonable rates, we will not be able to place financing on the properties, which could reduce distributions per share. If we place mortgage debt on the properties, we run the risk of being unable to refinance the properties when the loans come due, or of being unable to refinance on favorable terms. If interest rates are higher when the properties are refinanced, our net income could be reduced, which would reduce cash available for distribution to stockholders and may prevent us from borrowing more money. Taxation Risks If we fail to maintain our REIT status, our distributions will not be deductible to us and our taxable income will be subject to taxation. We have qualified as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which affords us significant tax advantages. The requirements for this qualification, however, are complex. If we fail to continue to meet these requirements, our distributions will not be deductible to us and we will have to pay a corporate level tax on our -8- taxable income. This would substantially reduce our cash available to pay distributions and the yield on a stockholder’s investment. In addition, tax liability might cause us to borrow funds, liquidate some of our investments or take other steps which could negatively affect our operating results. Moreover, if our REIT status is terminated because of our failure to meet a technical REIT test, we would be disqualified from electing treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which REIT status is lost. Even REITS are subject to federal and state income taxes. Even if we qualify and maintain our status as a REIT, we may become subject to federal income taxes and related state taxes. For example, if we have net income from a "prohibited transaction," such income will be subject to a 100% tax. We may not be able to make sufficient distributions to avoid excise taxes applicable to REITs. We may also decide to retain income we earn from the sale or other disposition of our property and pay income tax directly on such income. In that event, our stockholders would be treated as if they earned that income and paid the tax on it directly. However, stockholders that are tax-exempt, such as charities or qualified pension plans, would have no benefit from their deemed payment of such tax liability. In addition, we may also be subject to state and local taxes on our income or property, either directly or at the level of the operating partnership or at the level of the other companies through which we indirectly own our assets. We cannot assure stockholders that we will be able to continue to satisfy the REIT requirements. The annual statement of value that we will be sending to stockholders subject to ERISA and to certain other plan stockholders is only an estimate and may not reflect the actual value of our shares. The annual statement of value will report the value of each common stock based as of the close of our fiscal year. No independent appraisals will be obtained and the value will be based upon an estimated amount we determine would be received if our properties and other assets were sold as of the close of our fiscal year and if such proceeds, together with our other funds, were distributed pursuant to liquidation. However, the net asset value of each share of common stock is deemed to be $10 during the offerings and for the first three years following the termination of this offering. Because this is only an estimate, we may subsequently revise any annual valuation that is provided. We cannot assure that: · a value included in the annual statement could actually be realized by us or by our stockholders upon liquidation; · stockholders could realize that value if they were to attempt to sell their common stock; or · an annual statement of value would comply with any reporting and disclosure or annual valuation requirements under ERISA or other applicable law. We will stop providing annual statements of value if the common stock becomes listed for trading on a national stock exchange or included for quotation on a national market system. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have no outstanding unresolved comments from the SEC staff regarding our periodic or current reports. -9- 