RISK FACTORS Additional operating expenses relating to our expansion activities may reduce our profitability. We will incur additional expenses relating to our lending and branch expansion strategy. These expenses will be primarily salaries and employee benefits for the additional employees hired to staff our new offices and occupancy and equipment relating to our new lending office that opened in January 2005 and our three anticipated branch offices to open in 2006, two in Knoxville, Tennessee and one in Morristown, Tennessee. Initially, we expect that these expenses will be greater than the additional income that we generate through our new facilities. Over time, we anticipate that we will generate sufficient income to offset the expenses related to our new facilities and new employees, although we cannot guarantee when that will occur. We may not be able to implement successfully our plans for growth. We have operated out of our main office and two drive-through facilities in Morristown, Tennessee since 1963 and have historically considered Hamblen County to be our primary market area. Recently, our management began to implement a growth strategy that expands our presence in Morristown, as well as into Knoxville, Tennessee, approximately 40 miles southwest of Morristown. In January 2005, we opened a lending office in Knoxville and we intend to open two full-service branches in Knoxville and one in Morristown, all in 2006. In connection with these new branches, we will have, among others, land acquisition and construction expenses, as well as the cost of equipment and hiring new employees. We cannot assure you that our expansion strategy will be accretive to earnings, or that our strategy will be accretive to earnings within a reasonable period of time. Numerous factors will affect our expansion strategy, such as our ability to select suitable office locations, real estate acquisition costs, competition, interest rates, managerial resources, our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel, the effectiveness of our marketing strategy and our ability to attract deposits. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in increasing the volume of our loans and deposits by expanding our lending and branch network. Building and staffing new offices will increase our operating expenses. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to manage the costs and implementation risks associated with this strategy so that expansion of our lending and branch network will be profitable. We are expanding our lending and branch network into a geographic market in which we have no previous experience. Since our formation in 1963, we have operated solely out of our office located in Morristown, Tennessee and have focused our lending in Morristown and the surrounding area. A key component of our strategy to grow and improve profitability is to expand into additional markets in Tennessee that are also experiencing economic expansion. As a result, in January 2005, we opened a lending office in Knoxville, Tennessee, which is the third largest city in the state. In addition, we intend to open two full-service branches in Knoxville in 2006. We may pursue further expansion in this market in future years. Knoxville is a geographic market in which we have no previous operating experience. We have hired or plan to hire employees with significant banking experience in the local market. Our ability to operate successfully in this market will be dependent, in part, on our ability to identify and retain personnel familiar with the new market. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in attracting deposits or originating loans in this new geographic area. A downturn in the local economy or a decline in real estate values could hurt our earnings. The success of our business depends on our ability to generate profits and grow our franchise. We are located in Morristown, Tennessee and consider Hamblen County, with a population of 59,000, and its contiguous counties to be our primary market area, although we are currently expanding into the Knoxville region. The economy of the Hamblen County market area is based primarily on manufacturing and agriculture. Our primary lending activity is the origination of loans secured by real estate. Nearly all of these loans are made to borrowers who live and work in our primary market area. As a result, a downturn in the local economy, particularly local agriculture, could cause significant increases in nonperforming loans, which would hurt our earnings. Decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for our loans which would expose us 11 Table of Contents to a greater risk of loss. In addition, adverse employment conditions may have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans and on our ability to make new loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. Rising interest rates may hurt our earnings and asset value. Interest rates have recently been at historically low levels. However, since June 30, 2004, the U.S. Federal Reserve has increased its target for the federal funds rate ten times, from 1.00% to 3.50%. While these short-term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to our price deposits) have increased, longer-term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our longer-term loans) have not. This “flattening” of the market yield curve has had a negative impact on our interest rate spread and net interest margin, and if short-term interest rates continue to rise, and if rates on our deposits and borrowings continue to reprice upwards faster than the rates on our long-term loans and investments, we would continue to experience compression of our interest rate spread and net interest margin, which would have a negative effect on our profitability. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest-earnings assets, and in particular our securities portfolio. Generally, the value of fixed-rate securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of equity, net of tax. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and at times has forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. As of June 30, 2004, we held 27.1% of the deposits in Hamblen County, which is the largest market share out of ten financial institutions with offices in the county at that date. However, banks owned by SunTrust Banks, Inc., First Tennessee National Corporation and Regions Financial Corporation, all of which are large regional bank holding companies, also operate in Hamblen County. These institutions are significantly larger than us and, therefore, have significantly greater resources. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. Our commercial real estate, commercial business and multi-family real estate loans expose us to increased lending risks. At June 30, 2005, $116.0 million, or 55.1%, of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate, commercial business and multi-family real estate loans. Commercial real estate and multi-family real estate loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Commercial business loans expose us to additional risks because they typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayments from the cash flow of the borrower’s business and are secured by collateral that may depreciate over time. All three of these types of loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Because such loans generally entail greater risk than one- to four- family residential mortgage loans, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses in the future to account for the likely increase in probable incurred credit losses associated with the growth of such loans. Also, many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. 12 Table of Contents We may require further additions to our allowance for loan losses, which would reduce net income. If our borrowers do not repay their loans or if the collateral securing their loans is insufficient to provide for the full repayment, we may suffer credit losses. Credit losses are inherent in the lending business and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for loan losses based on a number of factors. If our assumptions and judgments are wrong, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover our losses. If we determine that our allowance for loan losses is insufficient, we would be required to take additional provisions for loan losses, which would reduce net income during the period those provisions are taken. In addition, the Office of Thrift Supervision periodically reviews our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or to charge off particular loans. Loss of our President and Chief Executive Officer could hurt our operations. We rely heavily on our President and Chief Executive Officer, Anderson L. Smith. The loss of Mr. Smith could have an adverse effect on us because, as a small community bank, Mr. Smith is responsible for more aspects of our business than he might be at a larger financial institution with more employees. Moreover, as a small community bank, we have fewer management-level employees who are in a position to succeed and assume the responsibilities of Mr. Smith. We have entered into a three-year employment agreement with Mr. Smith. We do not have key-man life insurance on Mr. Smith. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, our chartering authority, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of our deposits. As a savings and loan holding company, Jefferson Bancshares is subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. REGULATION AND SUPERVISION General As a savings and loan holding company, Jefferson Bancshares is required by federal law to report to, and otherwise comply with, the rules and regulations of the Office of Thrift Supervision. Jefferson Federal is subject to extensive regulation, examination and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision, as its primary federal regulator, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as the deposit insurer. Jefferson Federal is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank System and, with respect to deposit insurance, of the Savings Association Insurance Fund managed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Jefferson Federal must file reports with the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation concerning its activities and financial condition in addition to obtaining regulatory approvals prior to entering into certain transactions such as mergers with, or acquisitions of, other savings institutions. The Office of Thrift Supervision conducts periodic examinations to test Jefferson Federal’s safety and soundness and compliance with various regulatory requirements. This regulation and supervision establishes a comprehensive framework of activities in which an institution can engage and is intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. The regulatory structure also gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. Any change in such regulatory requirements and policies, whether by the Office of Thrift Supervision, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or Congress, could have a material adverse impact on us and our operations. Certain regulatory requirements applicable to us are referenced below or elsewhere herein. 13 Table of Contents The description of statutory provisions and regulations applicable to savings institutions and their holding companies set forth in this report does not purport to be a complete description of such statutes and regulations and their effects on us and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the actual laws and regulations. Holding Company Regulation Jefferson Bancshares is a nondiversified unitary savings and loan holding company within the meaning of federal law. Under prior law, a unitary savings and loan holding company, such as Jefferson Bancshares, was not generally restricted as to the types of business activities in which it may engage, provided that the association continued to be a qualified thrift lender. See “Federal Savings Institution Regulation - QTL Test.” The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 provides that no company may acquire control of a savings institution after May 4, 1999 unless it engages only in the financial activities permitted for financial holding companies under the law or for multiple savings and loan holding companies as described below. Further, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act specifies that existing savings and loan holding companies may only engage in such activities. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, however, grandfathered the unrestricted authority for activities with respect to unitary savings and loan holding companies existing prior to May 4, 1999, so long as the holding company’s savings institution subsidiary continues to comply with the QTL test. Jefferson Bancshares does not qualify for the grandfathering. Upon any non-supervisory acquisition by Jefferson Bancshares of another savings association or savings bank that meets the qualified thrift lender test (as described below) and is deemed to be a savings institution by the Office of Thrift Supervision, Jefferson Bancshares would become a multiple savings and loan holding company (if the acquired association is held as a separate subsidiary) and would generally be limited to activities permissible for bank holding companies under Section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act, subject to the prior approval of the Office of Thrift Supervision, and certain activities authorized by Office of Thrift Supervision regulations. However, the Office of Thrift Supervision has issued an interpretation concluding that multiple savings and loan holding companies may also engage in activities permitted for financial holding companies. A savings and loan holding company is prohibited from, directly or indirectly, acquiring more than 5% of the voting stock of another savings institution or savings and loan holding company, without prior written approval of the Office of Thrift Supervision and from acquiring or retaining control of a depository institution that is not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. In evaluating applications by holding companies to acquire savings institutions, the Office of Thrift Supervision considers the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the company and institution involved, the effect of the acquisition on the risk to the deposit insurance funds, the convenience and needs of the community and competitive factors. The Office of Thrift Supervision may not approve any acquisition that would result in a multiple savings and loan holding company controlling savings institutions in more than one state, subject to two exceptions: (1) the approval of interstate supervisory acquisitions by savings and loan holding companies; and (2) the acquisition of a savings institution in another state if the laws of the state of the target savings institution specifically permit such acquisitions. States vary in the extent to which they permit interstate savings and loan holding company acquisitions. Although savings and loan holding companies are not currently subject to specific capital requirements or specific restrictions on the payment of dividends or other capital distributions, federal regulations do prescribe such restrictions on subsidiary savings institutions as described below. Jefferson Federal must notify the Office of Thrift Supervision 30 days before declaring any dividend to Jefferson Bancshares. In addition, the financial impact of a holding company on its subsidiary institution is a matter that is evaluated by the Office of Thrift Supervision and the agency has authority to order cessation of activities or divestiture of subsidiaries deemed to pose a threat to the safety and soundness of the institution. Acquisition of the Company. Under the Federal Change in Bank Control Act (“CIBCA”), a notice must be submitted to the Office of Thrift Supervision if any person (including a company or savings association), or group acting in concert, seeks to acquire “control” of a savings and loan holding company or savings association. A change of control may occur, and prior notice is required, upon the acquisition of 10% or more of the Company’s outstanding voting stock, unless the Office of Thrift Supervision has found that the acquisition will not result in a change of control of the Company. Under the CIBCA, the Office of Thrift Supervision has 60 days from the filing of a complete notice to act, taking into consideration certain factors, including the financial and managerial resources of the acquirer and the anti-trust effects of the acquisition. Any company that acquires control would then be subject to regulation as a savings and loan holding company. 14 Table of Contents Federal Savings Institution Regulation Business Activities. The activities of federal savings institutions are governed by federal law and regulations. These laws and regulations delineate the nature and extent of the activities in which federal associations may engage. In particular, certain lending authority for a federal association, e.g., commercial, non-residential real property loans and consumer loans, is limited to a specified percentage of the institution’s capital or assets. Capital Requirements. The Office of Thrift Supervision capital regulations require savings institutions to meet three minimum capital standards: a 1.5% tangible capital to total assets ratio, a 4% leverage (core capital) ratio (3% for certain institutions receiving the highest rating on the CAMELS examination rating system) and an 8% total risk-based capital ratio. In addition, the prompt corrective action regulations discussed below also establish, in effect, a minimum 2% tangible capital standard, a 4% leverage (core capital) ratio (3% for institutions receiving the highest CAMELS rating), and, together with the risk-based capital standard itself, a 4% Tier 1 risk-based capital standard. The Office of Thrift Supervision regulations also require that, in meeting the tangible, leverage and risk-based capital standards, institutions must generally deduct investments in and loans to subsidiaries engaged in activities as principal that are not permissible for a national bank. The risk-based capital standards for savings institutions requires the maintenance of Tier 1 (core) and total capital (which is defined as core capital and supplementary capital) to risk-weighted assets of at least 4% and 8%, respectively. In determining the amount of risk-weighted assets, all assets, including certain off-balance sheet assets, recourse obligations, residual interests and direct credit substitutes, are multiplied by a risk-weight factor of 0% to 100%, assigned by the Office of Thrift Supervision capital regulation based on the risks believed inherent in the type of asset. Core (Tier 1) capital is defined as common stockholders’ equity (including retained earnings), certain noncumulative perpetual preferred stock and related surplus, and minority interests in equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries less intangibles other than certain mortgage servicing rights and credit card relationships. The components of supplementary capital currently include cumulative perpetual preferred stock, long-term perpetual preferred stock, mandatory convertible securities, subordinated debt and intermediate preferred stock, the allowance for loan and lease losses limited to a maximum of 1.25% of risk-weighted assets and up to 45% of unrealized gains on available-for-sale equity securities with readily determinable fair market values. Overall, the amount of supplementary capital included as part of total capital cannot exceed 100% of core capital. The Office of Thrift Supervision also has authority to establish individual minimum capital requirements in appropriate cases upon a determination that an institution’s capital level is or may become inadequate in light of the particular circumstances. At June 30, 2005, Jefferson Federal met each of its capital requirements. Prompt Corrective Regulatory Action. The Office of Thrift Supervision is required to take certain supervisory actions against undercapitalized institutions, the severity of which depends upon the institution’s degree of undercapitalization. Generally, a savings institution that has a ratio of total capital to risk weighted assets of less than 8%, a ratio of Tier 1 (core) capital to risk-weighted assets of less than 4% or a ratio of core capital to total assets of less than 4% (3% or less for institutions with the highest examination rating) is considered to be “undercapitalized.” A savings institution that has a total risk-based capital ratio less than 6%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of less than 3% or a leverage ratio that is less than 3% is considered to be “significantly undercapitalized” and a savings institution that has a tangible capital to assets ratio equal to or less than 2% is deemed to be “critically undercapitalized.” Subject to a narrow exception, the Office of Thrift Supervision is required to appoint a receiver or conservator within specified time frames for an institution that is “critically undercapitalized.” The regulation also provides that a capital restoration plan must be filed with the Office of Thrift Supervision within 45 days of the date a savings institution receives notice that it is “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” or “critically undercapitalized.” Compliance with the plan must be guaranteed by any parent holding company. In addition, numerous mandatory supervisory actions become immediately applicable to an undercapitalized institution, including, but not limited to, increased monitoring by regulators and restrictions on growth, capital distributions and expansion. The Office of Thrift Supervision could also take any one of a number of discretionary supervisory actions, including the issuance of a capital directive and the replacement of senior executive officers and directors. 15 Table of Contents Insurance of Deposit Accounts. Jefferson Federal is a member of the Savings Association Insurance Fund. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation maintains a risk-based assessment system by which institutions are assigned to one of three categories based on their capitalization and one of three subcategories based on examination ratings and other supervisory information. An institution’s assessment rate depends upon the categories to which it is assigned. Assessment rates for Savings Association Insurance Fund member institutions are determined semiannually by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and currently range from zero basis points for the healthiest institutions to 27 basis points for the riskiest. In addition to the assessment for deposit insurance, institutions are required to make payments on bonds issued in the late 1980s by the Financing Corporation (“FICO”) to recapitalize the predecessor to the Savings Association Insurance Fund. During fiscal 2004, FICO payments for Savings Association Insurance Fund members approximated 1.45 basis points of assessable deposits. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has authority to increase insurance assessments. A significant increase in Savings Association Insurance Fund insurance premiums would likely have an adverse effect on the operating expenses and results of operations of Jefferson Bancshares. Management cannot predict what insurance assessment rates will be in the future. Insurance of deposits may be terminated by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation upon a finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or Office of Thrift Supervision. We do not know of any practice, condition or violation that might lead to termination of deposit insurance. Loans to One Borrower. Federal law provides that savings institutions are generally subject to the limits on loans to one borrower applicable to national banks. Generally, subject to certain exceptions, a savings institution may not make a loan or extend credit to a single or related group of borrowers in excess of 15% of its unimpaired capital and surplus. An additional amount may be lent, equal to 10% of unimpaired capital and surplus, if secured by specified readily-marketable collateral. Qualified Thrift Lender Test. The Home Owners’ Loan Act requires savings associations to meet a qualified thrift lender test. Under the test, a savings association is required to either qualify as a “domestic building and loan association” under the Internal Revenue Code or maintain at least 65% of its “portfolio assets” (total assets less: (1) specified liquid assets up to 20% of total assets; (2) intangibles, including goodwill; and (3) the value of property used to conduct business) in certain “qualified thrift investments” (primarily residential mortgages and related investments, including certain mortgage-backed securities) in at least 9 months out of each 12-month period. A savings association that fails the qualified thrift lender test is subject to certain operating restrictions and may be required to convert to a bank charter. As of June 30, 2005, Jefferson Federal met the qualified thrift lender test. Recent legislation has expanded the extent to which education loans, credit card loans and small business loans may be considered “qualified thrift investments.” Limitation on Capital Distributions. Office of Thrift Supervision regulations impose limitations upon all capital distributions by a savings institution, including cash dividends, payments to repurchase its shares and payments to shareholders of another institution in a cash-out merger. Under the regulations, an application to and the prior approval of the Office of Thrift Supervision is required prior to any capital distribution if the institution does not meet the criteria for “expedited treatment” of applications under Office of Thrift Supervision regulations (i.e., generally, examination and Community Reinvestment Act ratings in the two top categories), the total capital distributions for the calendar year exceed net income for that year plus the amount of retained net income for the preceding two years, the institution would be undercapitalized following the distribution or the distribution would otherwise be contrary to a statute, regulation or agreement with or condition imposed by the Office of Thrift Supervision. If an application is not required, the institution must still provide prior notice to the Office of Thrift Supervision of the capital distribution if, like Jefferson Federal, it is a subsidiary of a holding company. In the event Jefferson Federal’s capital fell below its regulatory requirements or the Office of Thrift Supervision notified it that it was in need of more than normal supervision, Jefferson Federal’s ability to make capital distributions could be 16 Table of Contents restricted. As a result of its Conversion, Jefferson Federal also may not make a capital distribution if the distribution would reduce its regulatory capital below the amount needed for the liquidation account established in connection with the Conversion and may not make a distribution that would constitute a return of capital during the three-year term of the business plan submitted in connection with the Conversion. In addition, the Office of Thrift Supervision could prohibit a proposed capital distribution by any institution, which would otherwise be permitted by the regulation, if the Office of Thrift Supervision determined that such distribution would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. No insured depository institution may make a capital distribution if, after making the distribution, the institution would be undercapitalized. Transactions with Related Parties. Jefferson Federal’s authority to engage in transactions with “affiliates” (e.g., any company that controls or is under common control with an institution, including Jefferson Bancshares and any non-savings institution subsidiaries) is limited by federal law. The aggregate amount of covered transactions with any individual affiliate is limited to 10% of the capital and surplus of the savings institution. The aggregate amount of covered transactions with all affiliates is limited to 20% of the savings institution’s capital and surplus. Certain transactions with affiliates are required to be secured by collateral in an amount and of a type described in federal law. The purchase of low quality assets from affiliates is generally prohibited. The transactions with affiliates must be on terms and under circumstances that are at least as favorable to the institution as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with non-affiliated companies. In addition, savings associations are prohibited from lending to any affiliate that is engaged in activities that are not permissible for bank holding companies and no savings institution may purchase the securities of any affiliate other than a subsidiary. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 generally prohibits loans by Jefferson Bancshares to its executive officers and directors. However, that act contains a specific exception for loans by federally insured depository institutions to its executive officers and directors in compliance with federal banking laws. Under such laws, Jefferson Federal’s authority to extend credit to executive officers, directors and 10% shareholders (“insiders”), as well as entities such persons control, is limited. The law limits both the individual and aggregate amount of loans Jefferson Federal may make to insiders based, in part, on Jefferson Federal’s capital position and requires certain board approval procedures to be followed. Such loans are required to be made on terms substantially the same as those offered to unaffiliated individuals and not to involve more than the normal risk of repayment. There is an exception for loans made pursuant to a benefit or compensation program that is widely available to all employees of the institution and does not give preference to insiders over other employees. Standards for Safety and Soundness. The federal banking agencies have adopted Interagency Guidelines prescribing Standards for Safety and Soundness. The guidelines set forth the safety and soundness standards that the federal banking agencies use to identify and address problems at insured depository institutions before capital becomes impaired. If the Office of Thrift Supervision determines that a savings institution fails to meet any standard prescribed by the guidelines, the Office of Thrift Supervision may require the institution to submit an acceptable plan to achieve compliance with the standard. Enforcement. The Office of Thrift Supervision has primary enforcement responsibility over savings associations and has the authority to bring actions against the institution and all institution-affiliated parties, including shareholders, and any attorneys, appraisers and accountants who knowingly or recklessly participate in wrongful action likely to have an adverse effect on an insured institution. Formal enforcement action may range from the issuance of a capital directive or cease and desist order to removal of officers and/or directors to institution of receivership, conservatorship or termination of deposit insurance. Civil penalties cover a wide range of violations and can amount to $25,000 per day, or even $1 million per day in especially egregious cases. The OTS also has enforcement authority over savings and loan holding companies such as Jefferson Bancshares. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has the authority to recommend to the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision that enforcement action be taken with respect to a particular savings institution. If action is not taken by the Director, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has authority to take such action under certain circumstances. Federal law also establishes criminal penalties for certain violations. 17 Table of Contents Federal Home Loan Bank System Jefferson Federal is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank System, which consists of 12 regional Federal Home Loan Banks. The Federal Home Loan Bank provides a central credit facility primarily for member institutions. Jefferson Federal, as a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Cincinnati, is required to acquire and hold shares of capital stock in that Federal Home Loan Bank. Jefferson Federal was in compliance with this requirement with an investment in Federal Home Loan Bank stock at June 30, 2005 of $1.7 million. The Federal Home Loan Banks are required to provide funds for the resolution of insolvent thrifts in the late 1980s and to contribute funds for affordable housing programs. These requirements could reduce the amount of dividends that the Federal Home Loan Banks pay to their members and could also result in the Federal Home Loan Banks imposing a higher rate of interest on advances to their members. If dividends were reduced, or interest on future Federal Home Loan Bank advances increased, Jefferson Federal’s net interest income would likely also be reduced. Federal Reserve System The Federal Reserve Board regulations require savings institutions to maintain non-interest earning reserves against their transaction accounts (primarily NOW and regular checking accounts). The regulations generally provide that reserves be maintained against aggregate transaction accounts as follows: a 3% reserve ratio is assessed on net transaction accounts up to and including $47.6 million; a 10% reserve ratio is applied above $47.6 million. The first $7.0 million of otherwise reservable balances (subject to adjustments by the Federal Reserve Board) are exempted from the reserve requirements. The amounts are adjusted annually. Jefferson Federal complies with the foregoing requirements. FEDERAL AND STATE TAXATION Federal Income Taxation General. We report our income on a fiscal year basis using the accrual method of accounting. The federal income tax laws apply to us in the same manner as to other corporations with some exceptions, including particularly our reserve for bad debts discussed below. The following discussion of tax matters is intended only as a summary and does not purport to be a comprehensive description of the tax rules applicable to us. Our federal income tax returns have been either audited or closed under the statute of limitations through tax year 1995. For its 2005 year, the Company’s maximum federal income tax rate was 34%. Bad Debt Reserves. For fiscal years beginning before June 30, 1996, thrift institutions that qualified under certain definitional tests and other conditions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, were permitted to use certain favorable provisions to calculate their deductions from taxable income for annual additions to their bad debt reserve. A reserve could be established for bad debts on qualifying real property loans, generally secured by interests in real property improved or to be improved, under the percentage of taxable income method or the experience method. The reserve for nonqualifying loans was computed using the experience method. Federal legislation enacted in 1996 repealed the reserve method of accounting for bad debts and the percentage of taxable income method for tax years beginning after 1995 and require savings institutions to recapture or take into income certain portions of their accumulated bad debt reserves. Approximately $1.3 million of our accumulated bad debt reserves would not be recaptured into taxable income unless Jefferson Federal makes a “non-dividend distribution” to Jefferson Bancshares as described below. Distributions. If Jefferson Federal makes “non-dividend distributions” to Jefferson Bancshares, the distributions will be considered to have been made from Jefferson Federal’s unrecaptured tax bad debt reserves, including the balance of its reserves as of June 30, 1988, to the extent of the “non-dividend distributions,” and then from Jefferson Federal’s supplemental reserve for losses on loans, to the extent of those reserves, and an amount based on the amount distributed, but not more than the amount of those reserves, will be included in Jefferson Federal’s taxable income. Non-dividend distributions include distributions in excess of Jefferson Federal’s current and accumulated earnings and profits, as calculated for federal income tax purposes, distributions in redemption of stock, and distributions in partial or complete liquidation. Dividends paid out of Jefferson Federal’s current or accumulated earnings and profits will not be so included in Jefferson Federal’s taxable income. 18 Table of Contents The amount of additional taxable income triggered by a non-dividend is an amount that, when reduced by the tax attributable to the income, is equal to the amount of the distribution. Therefore, if Jefferson Federal makes a non-dividend distribution to Jefferson Bancshares, approximately one and one-half times the amount of the distribution not in excess of the amount of the reserves would be includable in income for federal income tax purposes, assuming a 34% federal corporate income tax rate. Jefferson Federal does not intend to pay dividends that would result in a recapture of any portion of its bad debt reserves. State Taxation Tennessee imposes franchise and excise taxes. The franchise tax ($0.25 per $100) is applied either to our apportioned net worth or the value of property owned and used in Tennessee, whichever is greater, as of the close of our fiscal year. The excise tax (6.5%) is applied to net earnings derived from business done in Tennessee. Under Tennessee regulations, bad debt deductions are deductible from the excise tax. There have not been any audits of our state tax returns during the past five years. Any cash dividends, in excess of a certain exempt amount, that are paid with respect to Jefferson Bancshares common stock to a shareholder (including a partnership and certain other entities) who is a resident of the State of Tennessee will be subject to the Tennessee income tax which is levied at a rate of six percent. Any distribution by a corporation from earnings according to percentage ownership is considered a dividend, and the definition of a dividend for Tennessee income tax purposes may not be the same as the definition of a dividend for federal income tax purposes. A corporate distribution may be treated as a dividend for Tennessee tax purposes if it is made from funds that exceed the corporation’s earned surplus and profits under certain circumstances. 