Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk and should be considered only by those persons who are able to afford a loss of their entire investment. There are important factors that could cause our actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from the results, level of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by any forward-looking statement. In particular, you should consider the numerous risks outlined below. Those risk factors are not exhaustive. RISK ASSOCIATED WITH REVIEW OF STRATEGIC ALTERNATIVES OUR REVIEW OF OUR STRATEGIC ALTERNATIVES MAY RESULT IN A COMPLETE TRANSFORMATION OF OUR COMPANY AND WE MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL IN THIS NEW VENTURE. We are currently evaluating our strategic alternatives. We have sold our health services consulting business; we may divest or wind down our biotechnology research and development efforts; and we may invest in a totally unrelated business or businesses. Such an action may result in an overhaul of our board of directors, management and financial structure and may lead to substantial reduction in our cash balances and substantial dilution to existing shareholders should we utilize our shares for acquisition. Despite our best efforts, we may not be successful in financing and/or operating the new venture. -4- RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT IF WE CONTINUE TO PURSUE OUR BIOTECHNOLOGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT OUR POTENTIAL TRIGLYCERIDES AND OTHER DYSLIPIDEMIAS DRUG IS AT A VERY EARLY STAGE OF DEVELOPMENT. We are “starting at the beginning” in our development of a triglycerides and other dyslipidemias drug. We have conducted only animal studies to date. We expect that it could take three or more years to complete the studies/trials necessary to attract a pharma partner to complete the development and an additional 2-4 years to complete all necessary studies for an NDA filing. There can be no assurance that any of these studies/trials will be successful or that we will develop the necessary proof of concept required to attract a pharma partner. ANY ACQUISITIONS OR CLINICAL STAGE COMPOUNDS/ORPHAN DRUGS WE MAKE MAY REQUIRE A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF OUR AVAILABLE CASH AND MAY NOT BE SCIENTIFICALLY OR COMMERCIALLY SUCCESSFUL. We may effect acquisitions of chemical stage compounds/orphan drugs to augment our pipeline. If we make one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration includes cash, we may be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash. Further, the types of clinical stage compound drugs we are seeking will likely be at a fairly early stage of development and actual research and development costs could exceed budgeted amounts and estimated time frames may require extension. Cost overruns, unanticipated regulatory delays or demands, unexpected adverse side effects or insufficient efficacy could prevent or substantially slow our research and development effort. OUR POTENTIAL TRIGLYCERIDES AND OTHER DYSLIPIDEMIAS DRUG, AS WELL AS OTHER POTENTIAL DRUGS WE HAVE BEGUN TO EXPLORE, ARE DEPENDENT UPON OUR LICENSE OF THE SPX106 COMPOUND. We have licensed the rights to commercialize the SPX106 and other compounds from the University of Kentucky Research Foundation and our ability to continue this development will depend upon our continued maintenance of our rights under this license agreement. If we fail to remain in compliance with this license agreement, we could lose the right to continue to develop SPX106T and other potential drugs we are exploring. WE WOULD LIKELY RELY ON OTHER LICENSE AGREEMENTS AS WE SEEK TO DEVELOP ADDITIONAL COMPOUNDS/ORPHAN DRUGS. We would likely have to enter into additional license agreements to obtain rights to develop additional compounds/orphan drugs as well as additional license agreements with the University of Kentucky Research Foundation or other research institutions for continued research and development. These license agreements may require us to meet development milestones and impose development and commercialization due diligence requirements on us. In addition, under these agreements, we would likely be required to pay royalties on sales of products resulting from licensed technologies and pay the patent filing, prosecution and maintenance costs related to the licenses. If we do not meet our obligations in a timely manner or if we otherwise breach the terms of our license agreements, our licensors could terminate the agreements, and we would lose the rights to our drug candidates. From time to time, we may have disagreements with our licensors or collaborators, or they and/or we may have disagreements with the original inventors, regarding the terms of our agreements or ownership of proprietary rights, which could lead to delays in the research, development and commercialization of our drug candidates, could require or result in litigation or arbitration, which would be time-consuming and expensive, or could lead to the termination of a license, or force us to negotiate a revised or new license agreement on terms less favorable than the original. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO COMPLETE CLINICAL TRIAL PROGRAMS SUCCESSFULLY, OR IF SUCH CLINICAL TRIALS TAKE LONGER TO COMPLETE THAN WE PROJECT, OUR ABILITY TO EXECUTE A PHARMACEUTICAL BUSINESS STRATEGY WOULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. We are not currently running any clinical trials. Whether or not and how quickly we complete clinical trials is dependent in part upon our filing an IND, the FDA approving our IND, our contracting with an appropriate CRO, the rate at which we are able to engage clinical trial sites and, thereafter, the rate of enrollment of patients, and the rate we collect, clean, lock and analyze the clinical trial database. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the study, the existence of competitive clinical trials, and whether existing or new drugs are approved for the indication we are studying. Certain clinical trials are designed to continue until a pre-determined number of events have occurred in the patients enrolled. Trials such as this are subject to delays stemming from patient withdrawal and from lower than expected event rates. They may also incur additional costs if enrollment is increased in order to achieve the desired number of events. If we experience delays in identifying and contracting with sites and/or in patient enrollment in our clinical trial programs, we may incur additional costs and delays in our development programs, and may not be able to complete our clinical trials in a cost-effective or timely manner. Negative or inconclusive results from the clinical trials we conduct or unanticipated adverse medical events could cause us to have to repeat or terminate the clinical trials. We may also opt to change the delivery method, formulation or dosage, which could affect efficacy results for the drug candidate. Accordingly, we may not be able to complete the clinical trials within an acceptable time frame, if at all. -5- Additionally, we have never filed an NDA or similar application for approval in the United States, or in any country, which may result in a delay in, or the rejection of, our filing of an NDA or similar application. During the drug development process, regulatory agencies will typically ask questions of drug sponsors. While we endeavor to answer all such questions in a timely fashion, or in the NDA filing, some questions may remain unanswered by the time we file our NDA. Unless the FDA opts not to pursue answers to these questions, submission of an NDA may be delayed or rejected. PRE-CLINICAL TESTING AND CLINICAL DEVELOPMENT ARE LONG, EXPENSIVE AND UNCERTAIN PROCESSES. IF OUR DRUG CANDIDATES DO NOT RECEIVE THE NECESSARY REGULATORY APPROVALS, WE WILL BE UNABLE TO COMMERCIALIZE OUR DRUG CANDIDATES. We have not received, and may never receive, regulatory approval for the commercial sale of any of our drug candidates. We have not received regulatory approval to begin clinical trials of SPX106T. We will need to conduct significant additional research and human testing before we can apply to begin clinical trials of SPX106T or for product approval with the FDA or with regulatory authorities of other countries. Pre-clinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive and uncertain processes. Satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically depends on the nature, complexity and novelty of the product. It requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical tests can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. The FDA may pose additional questions or request further clinical substantiation. It may take us many years to complete the testing of our drug candidates and failure can occur at any stage of this process. Negative or inconclusive results or medical events during a clinical trial could cause us to delay or terminate our development efforts. Furthermore, interim results of preclinical or clinical studies do not necessarily predict their final results, and acceptable results in early studies might not be obtained in later studies. Clinical trials have a high risk of failure. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including biotechnology companies, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after achieving what appeared to be promising results in earlier trials. Regulatory guidelines for Spherix drugs can be changed by failures of other drugs unrelated to ours and manufactured by other companies. If we experience delays in the testing or approval process or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than originally planned, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our drug candidates may be materially impaired. In addition, we have limited experience in conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approval in the United States and abroad. Accordingly, we may encounter unforeseen problems and delays in the approval process. Although we may engage a clinical research organization with experience in conducting regulatory trials, errors in the conduct, monitoring and/or auditing could potentially invalidate the results. OUR PATENT PROTECTION MAY NOT BE SUFFICIENT TO PROTECT US. At present we only have rights for patents pending for triglycerides and other dyslipidemias treatment. There can be no assurance these patents will be issued. The first official actions are now being received on the national-stage patent applications and key claims might not be allowed. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO FIND A STRATEGIC PARTNER FOR OUR DIABETES DRUG CANDIDATE. We have ceased expending any significant sums searching for a pharma partner to continue development of D-tagatose as a treatment for Type 2 diabetes. Accordingly, we may not obtain any benefit from the substantial investment we have made in these efforts over the past several years. WE DO NOT CURRENTLY HAVE THE RESOURCES TO BECOME A FULL SCALE BIOTECHNOLOGY COMPANY AND WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ATTRACT A NECESSARY BUYER/LICENSEE/PARTNER/STRATEGIC PARTNER BEFORE WE EXPEND ALL OF OUR FUNDS. We intend to seek a sale, license, or partner for SPX106T. There can be no assurance, however, that we will attract a buyer, licensee or partner. We have limited resources. We will need to raise additional funds within the next twelve months to continue operations and would likely require additional capital raises thereafter to fully pursue the triglycerides and other dyslipidemias opportunity and we may not be able to do so in a timely fashion. -6- REGULATORY AUTHORITIES MAY NOT APPROVE OUR PRODUCTS EVEN IF THEY MEET SAFETY AND EFFICACY ENDPOINTS IN CLINICAL TRIALS. The FDA and foreign regulatory agencies can delay, limit or deny marketing approval for many reasons, including: · a product candidate may not be considered safe or effective; · the manufacturing processes or facilities we have selected may not meet the applicable requirements; and · changes in approval policies or adoption of new regulations may require additional work on our part. Any delay in, or failure to receive or maintain, approval for our drug candidates could prevent us from ever generating meaningful revenues. Our products may not be approved even if they achieve endpoints in clinical trials. Regulatory agencies, including the FDA, or their advisors may disagree with our trial design and our interpretations of data from preclinical studies and clinical trials. Regulatory agencies may change requirements for approval even after a clinical trial design has been approved. Regulatory agencies may also approve a product candidate for fewer or more limited indications than requested, or may grant approval subject to the performance of post-marketing studies. In addition, regulatory agencies may not approve the labeling claims that are necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of our products. OUR FINANCIAL RESOURCES ARE LIMITED AND WE WILL NEED TO RAISE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL IN THE FUTURE TO CONTINUE OUR BUSINESS. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the progress of any clinical trials initiated and commercialization of our products, including any additional compounds/products we may acquire and attempt to develop, as well as general and administrative costs. We cannot ensure that additional funding will be available or, if it is available, that it can be obtained on terms and conditions we will deem acceptable. Any additional funding derived from the sale of equity securities is likely to result in significant dilution to our existing stockholders. These matters involve risks and uncertainties that may prevent us from raising additional capital or may cause the terms upon which we raise additional capital, if additional capital is available, to be less favorable to us than would otherwise be the case. If we reach a point where we are unable to raise needed additional funds to continue as a going concern, we will be forced to cease our development activities and dissolve the Company. In such an event, we will need to satisfy various severances, lease termination and other dissolution-related obligations. UNSTABLE MARKET CONDITIONS MAY HAVE SERIOUS ADVERSE CONSEQUENCES ON OUR BUSINESS. The recent economic downturn and market instability have made the business climate more volatile and more costly. Our general business strategy may be adversely affected by unpredictable and unstable market conditions, including: · one or more of our current service providers, manufacturers and other partners may encounter difficulties during challenging economic times, which would directly affect our ability to attain our goals on schedule and on budget; · our ability to collect on trade receivables may be negatively impacted by slow payments or bad debt; · our efforts to raise additional capital may be negatively impacted; · additional funding may not be available or, if it is available, may not be on terms and conditions we deem acceptable; · any additional funding derived from the sale of equity securities is likely to result in significant dilution to our existing stockholders; and · failure to secure the necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business strategy, financial performance, and stock price and could require us to delay or abandon the clinical development plans. -7- IF CLINICAL TRIALS ARE PROLONGED, DELAYED OR SUSPENDED, IT MAY TAKE SIGNIFICANTLY LONGER AND COST SUBSTANTIALLY MORE TO OBTAIN APPROVAL FOR OUR DRUG CANDIDATES AND ACHIEVE PROFITABILITY, IF AT ALL. Each delay makes it more likely that we would need additional financing to complete our clinical trials. We cannot predict whether we will encounter additional problems that will cause us or regulatory authorities to delay or suspend the clinical trial, or delay the analysis of data from the trials. Any of the following could delay the clinical development of our drug candidates: · ongoing discussions with the FDA regarding the scope or design of our trial; · delays in receiving, or the inability to obtain, required approvals from reviewing entities at clinical sites selected for participation in our trial; · a lower than anticipated retention rate of patients in the trial; · the need to repeat the trial or conduct another trial as a result of inconclusive or negative results or unforeseen complications in testing; · inadequate supply or deficient quality of materials necessary to conduct our trial; · serious and unexpected drug-related side effects experienced by participants in our clinical trials; · the placement by the FDA of a clinical hold on a trial; or · any restrictions on or post-approval commitments with regard to any regulatory approval we ultimately obtain that render the drug candidate not commercially viable. WE WILL RELY ON THIRD PARTIES TO CONDUCT OUR TRIALS, AND THOSE THIRD PARTIES MAY NOT PERFORM SATISFACTORILY. We will rely on third parties to manufacture drugs for our trials, to purchase animals and conduct preclinical studies, to enroll qualified patients, conduct our trials, provide services in connection with such trials, and coordinate and oversee significant aspects of the trials. Our reliance on these third parties for preclinical and clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. Accordingly, these third party contractors may not complete activities on schedule, or may not conduct our trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or the trial design. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be required to replace them or we may be required to hire and provide these services with our own personnel. Although we believe there are a number of third party contractors we could engage to continue these activities, replacing a third party contractor may result in a delay or affect the trial. If this were to occur, our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize our drug candidate would likely be delayed. OUR CORPORATE COMPLIANCE EFFORTS CANNOT GUARANTEE THAT WE ARE IN COMPLIANCE WITH ALL POTENTIALLY APPLICABLE REGULATIONS. The development, manufacturing, pricing, sales, and reimbursement of drug products are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and other authorities within the United States and numerous entities outside of the United States. We are a relatively small company with only 3 employees. We also have significantly fewer employees than many other companies that have a product candidate in preclinical development, and we rely heavily on third parties to conduct many important functions. While we believe that our corporate compliance program is sufficient to ensure compliance with applicable regulation, we cannot assure that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions including suspension or termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve our product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of products from the market, significant fines, or other sanctions or litigation. WE DO NOT HAVE INTERNAL MANUFACTURING CAPABILITIES, AND IF WE FAIL TO DEVELOP AND MAINTAIN SUPPLY RELATIONSHIPS WITH OUTSIDE MANUFACTURERS, WE MAY BE UNABLE TO DEVELOP OR COMMERCIALIZE OUR PRODUCTS. Our ability to develop and commercialize our products will depend in part on our ability to arrange for other parties to manufacture our products at a competitive cost, in accordance with regulatory requirements and in sufficient quantities for clinical testing and eventual commercialization. If we are unable to enter into or maintain commercial-scale manufacturing agreements on acceptable terms, or if we are unable to successfully bridge material from a manufacturer to the material initially used in the trials, the development and commercialization of our products could be delayed, which would adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and would increase our expenses. -8- FAILURE TO OBTAIN REGULATORY APPROVAL IN FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS WOULD PREVENT MARKETING OF OUR PRODUCTS. We intend to have our products marketed both inside and outside of the United States. In order to market our products in the European Union and many other foreign jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. We and our collaborators may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market. The failure to obtain these approvals could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. EVEN IF WE BEGIN CLINICAL TRIALS AND OUR CLINICAL TRIALS ARE SUCCESSFUL, WE MAY NOT HAVE A COMMERCIALLY VIABLE DRUG OR PRODUCT. We have a number of hurdles to overcome to have a commercially viable drug or product even assuming we are able to begin clinical trials and our clinical trials are successful, including: · We must secure one or more manufacturers for our products and we must repeat certain key studies and/or bridge the materials supplied by the current manufacturer(s) to the previously supplied materials to gain FDA approval. · We must demonstrate that the product will be accepted in the market place. Even if the clinical trial is successful, the market may not accept the drug formulation or dosing. IF PHYSICIANS AND PATIENTS DO NOT ACCEPT OUR PRODUCTS, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO GENERATE SIGNIFICANT REVENUES FROM PRODUCT SALES. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for our products, they may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community for a variety of reasons including: · timing of market introduction of competitive drugs; · lower demonstrated clinical safety and efficacy compared to other drugs; · lack of cost-effectiveness; · lack of availability of reimbursement from managed care plans and other third-party payors; · inconvenient administration; · prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; · drug interactions with other widely prescribed medications; · potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; · safety concerns with similar drugs marketed by others; · the reluctance of the target population to try new therapies and of physicians to prescribe these therapies; and · ineffective sales, marketing and distribution support. If our products fail to achieve market acceptance, we would not be able to generate significant revenue or achieve profitability. THE BIOTECHNOLOGY BUSINESS HAS A SUBSTANTIAL RISK OF PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS. THE DEFENSE OF ANY PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIM BROUGHT AGAINST US WILL DIVERT MANAGEMENT TIME AND REQUIRE SIGNIFICANT EXPENSE. We could be exposed to significant potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development, manufacture, sales and marketing of drugs and related products. Our insurance may not, however, provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Furthermore, product liability insurance is becoming increasingly expensive. As a result, we may be unable to maintain current amounts of insurance coverage or obtain additional or sufficient insurance at a reasonable cost to protect against losses that could have a material adverse effect on us. If a claim is brought against us, we might be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as well as uncovered damage awards resulting from a claim brought successfully against us. Furthermore, whether or not we are ultimately successful in defending any such claims, we might be required to redirect significant financial and managerial resources to such defense, and adverse publicity is likely to result. -9- WE HAVE SUSTAINED LOSSES IN THE PAST AND WE MAY SUSTAIN LOSSES IN THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE. We have incurred losses from operations in prior years, including 2012. Our loss from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2012 was $2.9 million, and the net loss for the year ended December 31, 2012 was $3.9 million. The Company’s cumulative deficit was $35.3 million at December 31, 2012. We may not return to profitable operations. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO RETAIN OUR KEY EXECUTIVES AND PERSONNEL. As a small company, our success depends on the services of key employees in executive and other positions. The loss of the services of one or more of such employees could have a material adverse effect on us. WE FACE INTENSE COMPETITION. Our competitors include many companies, research institues and universities that are working in a number of pharmaceutical or biotechnology disciplines to develop therapeutic products similar to those we are currently investigating. Most of these competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and/or other resources than we do. In addition, many of our competitors have experience in performing human clinical trials of new or improved therapeutics products and obtaining approvals from the FDA and other regulatory agencies. Our competitors may succeed in developing or marketing biotechnology products that are more effective than ours. HEALTH CARE REFORM MEASURES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. The business prospects and financial condition of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are affected by the efforts of governmental and third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care. In the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the health care system, such as proposals relating to the pricing of healthcare products and services in the U.S. or internationally, the reimportation of drugs into the U.S. from other countries (where they are then sold at a lower price), and the amount of reimbursement available from governmental agencies or other third party payors. Furthermore, in the U.S., health care reform legislation titled the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act was signed into law on March 23, 2010. This comprehensive legislation will affect the terms of public and private health insurance and have a substantial impact on the pharmaceutical industry. For example, the new law will impose an annual fee on manufacturers of branded prescription pharmaceuticals that will impact our products. Regulations to implement this and other provisions related to the research, marketing and sale of prescription pharmaceutical products could result in a decrease in our stock price or limit our ability to raise capital or to obtain strategic partnerships or licenses. Government-financed comparative efficacy research could also result in new practice guidelines, labeling or reimbursement policies that discourages use of our products. WE FACE EVOLVING REGULATION OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE THAT MAY RESULT IN ADDITIONAL EXPENSES AND CONTINUING UNCERTAINTY. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, SEC regulations and NASDAQ Stock Market LLC rules are creating uncertainty for public companies. We are presently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of these costs. For example, compliance with the internal control requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act has to date required the commitment of significant resources to document and test the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting. Our assessment, testing and evaluation of the design and operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting resulted in our conclusion that, as of December 31, 2012, our internal control over financial reporting was not effective, as a result of the reclassification from equity to liability of warrants issued between November 2009 and February 2012. We can provide no assurance as to conclusions of management with respect to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in the future. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest the resources necessary to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, due to ambiguities related to practice or otherwise, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us, which could be costly and time-consuming, and our reputation and business may be harmed. -10- RISKS RELATED TO OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK HAS BEEN HIGHLY VOLATILE DUE TO SEVERAL FACTORS THAT WILL CONTINUE TO AFFECT THE PRICE OF OUR STOCK. Our common stock has traded as low as $5.85 and as high as $218.00 between January 1, 2011 and December 31, 2012 (on a split-adjusted basis). Some of the factors leading to this volatility include: · relatively small amounts of our stock trading on any given day; · fluctuations in our operating results; · announcements of technological innovations or new products that we or our competitors make; · developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights; and · recent economic downturn and market instability. OUR COMMON STOCK MAY BE DELISTED FROM NASDAQ CAPITAL MARKET SYSTEM IF WE FAIL TO COMPLY WITH CONTINUED LISTING STANDARDS. Our common stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol “SPEX.” If we fail to meet any of the continued listing standards of the NASDAQ Capital Market, our common stock could be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. These continued listing standards include specifically enumerated criteria, such as: · a $1.00 minimum closing bid price; · shareholders’ equity of $2.5 million; · 500,000 shares of publicly-held common stock with a market value of at least $1 million; · 300 round-lot stockholders; and · compliance with NASDAQ’s corporate governance requirements, as well as additional or more stringent criteria that may be applied in the exercise of NASDAQ’s discretionary authority. On April 20, 2012, the Company received a deficiency notice from NASDAQ regarding the bid price of the Company’s common stock. Following a 1 for 20 reverse stock split, on October 8, 2012, NASDAQ provided confirmation to the Company that the Company has regained compliance with Marketplace Rule 5550(a)(2) since the closing bid price of its common stock had traded at $1.00 per share or greater for at least ten (10) consecutive business days. This is the second time the Company employed a reversed stock split to avoid NASDAQ delisting. On September 25, 2012, the Company received written notification from NASDAQ advising the Company that the minimum number of publicly held shares of the Company’s common stock had fallen below the minimum 500,000 shares required for continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market pursuant to NASDAQ Rule 5550(a)(4). As a result of our November 2012 private placement transaction, we have been advised by NASDAQ that we have regained compliance with this requirement. On December 31, 2012, the Company’s Total Shareholders' Equity was $854,000, and was below the $2.5 million listing standard required by NASDAQ. In March 2013, the Company exchanged with certain investors the warrants issued in November 2012 for Series C Preferred Stock, effectively increasing Total Stockholders’ Equity by approximately $2.7 million. If we are delisted then our common stock will trade, if at all, only on the over-the-counter market, such as the OTC Bulletin Board securities market, and then only if one or more registered broker-dealer makers comply with quotation requirements. In addition, delisting of our common stock could depress our stock price, substantially limit liquidity of our common stock and materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us, or at all. -11- IF WE MAKE A SIGNIFICANT ACQUISITION THAT REQUIRES THE ISSUANCE OF OUR SHARES WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO REAPPLY FOR NASDAQ LISTING. Reapplying for NASDAQ listing would require us to satisfy the more stringent original listing standards of the NASDAQ Capital Market, which has substantially higher standards than the continuing listing standards. WE COULD FAIL IN FUTURE FINANCING EFFORTS OR BE DELISTED FROM NASDAQ IF WE FAIL TO RECEIVE SHAREHOLDER APPROVAL WHEN NEEDED. We are required under the NASDAQ rules to obtain shareholder approval for any issuance of additional equity securities that would comprise more than 20% of the total shares of our common stock outstanding before the issuance of such securities sold at a discount to the greater of book or market value in an offering that is not deemed to be a “public offering” by NASDAQ. Funding of our operations in the future or acquisitions may require issuance of additional equity securities that would comprise more than 20% of the total shares of our common stock outstanding, but we might not be successful in obtaining the required shareholder approval for such an issuance. If we are unable to obtain financing due to shareholder approval difficulties, such failure may have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations or maintain our listing with NASDAQ, which could have a negative impact on the trading market for our stock and our ability to raise capital in the future. OUR SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ARE THINLY TRADED, SO STOCKHOLDERS MAY BE UNABLE TO SELL AT OR NEAR ASK PRICES OR AT ALL IF THEY NEED TO SELL SHARES TO RAISE MONEY OR OTHERWISE DESIRE TO LIQUIDATE THEIR SHARES. Our common stock has been “thinly-traded” meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our common stock at or near ask prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. This situation is attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company that is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume, and that even if we came to the attention of such persons, they tend to be risk-averse and would be reluctant to follow an unproven company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares until such time as we become more seasoned and viable. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. We cannot give stockholders any assurance that a broader or more active public trading market for our common shares will develop or be sustained, or that current trading levels will be sustained. DIVIDENDS ON OUR COMMON STOCK ARE NOT LIKELY. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Investors must look solely to appreciation in the market price of the shares of our common stock to obtain a return on their investment. BECAUSE OF THE RIGHTS AGREEMENT AND “ANTI-TAKEOVER” PROVISIONS IN OUR CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION AND BYLAWS, A THIRD PARTY MAY BE DISCOURAGED FROM MAKING A TAKEOVER OFFER THAT COULD BE BENEFICIAL TO OUR STOCKHOLDERS. Effective January 1, 2013, we adopted a new shareholder rights plan. The effect of this rights plan and of certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation, By-Laws, and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us or replacing members of our Board of Directors, even if the acquisition or the replacements would be beneficial to our stockholders. These factors could also reduce the price that certain investors might be willing to pay for shares of the common stock and result in the market price being lower than it would be without these provisions. In general, if a person or group acquires or obtains the right to acquire 10% or more of the outstanding shares of common stock (thereby becoming an "Acquiring Person") each holder of a Right (except those held by the Acquiring Person and its affiliates and associates) will have the right to purchase, upon exercise, common stock (or, in certain circumstances, preferred stock, common stock equivalents or cash) having a value equal to two times the exercise price of the Right. In other words, the Rights holders other than the Acquiring Person may purchase common stock at a 50% discount. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 