ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common stock involves risks and uncertainties. You should consider carefully the following information about these risks and uncertainties before buying shares of our common stock. The occurrence of any of the risks described below could adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition or results of operations. In that case, the trading price of our stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of the value of your investment. The inability to obtain funding for our credit operations may adversely affect our business and expansion plans. We finance our customer receivables through asset-backed securitization facilities and an asset based loan facility that together provide $560 million in financing commitments as of January 31, 2010. The securitization facilities provide two separate series of asset-backed notes that allowed us, as of January 31, 2010, to borrow up to $350 million to finance customer receivables. Under each note series, we transfer customer receivables to a qualifying special purpose entity we formed for this purpose, in exchange for cash and subordinated securities. The qualifying special purpose entity, in turn, issues notes collateralized by these receivables that entitle the holders of the notes to participate in certain cash flows from these receivables. The 2002 Series A program is a $200 million variable funding note, of which $196.4 million was drawn as of January 31, 2010, and is annually renewable, at our option, until August 2011. Additionally, in connection with recent amendments to the variable funding note facility, the commitment will be reduced from its current $200 million level, to $170 million in April 2010, and then to $130 million in April 2011. Further, we agreed to use the proceeds from any capital raising activity to further reduce the commitments and debt outstanding under the QSPE’s debt facilities, The 2006 Series A program consists of $150 million in private bond placements that will require scheduled principal payments beginning in September 2010. These bonds have been downgraded by the rating agency that originally rated the bonds, which may make it more difficult for us to issue medium-term bonds in the future if the ratings are not subsequently raised. The asset based loan facility is a syndicated revolving bank facility that provides a $210 mill ion of borrowing capacity, of which $129.2 million was drawn, including outstanding letters of credit, as of January 31, 2010, and matures in August 2011. Our ability to raise additional capital through further securitization transactions or other debt or equity transactions, and to do so on economically favorable terms, depends in large part on factors that are beyond our control. These factors include: · conditions in the securities and finance markets generally; · our credit rating or the credit rating of any securities we may issue; · economic conditions; · conditions in the markets for securitized instruments, or other debt or equity instruments; · the credit quality and performance of our customer receivables; · our overall sales performance and profitability; · our ability to obtain financial support for required credit enhancement; · our ability to adequately service our financial instruments; · the absence of any material downgrading or withdrawal of ratings given to our securities previously issued in securitizations; · our ability to meet debt covenant requirements; and · prevailing interest rates. 20 Our ability to finance customer receivables under our current financing facilities depends on our continued compliance with covenants relating to our business and our customer receivables. In February and March 2010, we completed amendments to our financing facilities in order to obtain relief from potential covenant violations as of January 31, 2010 and revise certain future covenant requirements. If we had been unable to complete these amendments, or if we are unable to complete amendments, if required, in the future, and we are unable to arrange substitute financing facilities or other sources of capital, we may have to limit or cease offering credit through our finance programs. If our financing programs reach their capacity or if availability under the borrowing base calculations is reduced, or otherwise becomes unavailable, and we are unable to arrange substitute financing facilities or other sources of capital, we may have to limit the amount of credit that we make available through our customer finance programs. A reduction in our ability to offer customer credit may adversely affect revenues and results of operations. Further, our inability to obtain funding through securitization facilities or other sources may adversely affect the profitability of outstanding accounts under our credit programs if existing customers fail to repay outstanding credit due to our refusal to grant additional credit. Additionally, the inability of any of the financial institutions providing our financing facilities to fund their commitment would adversely affect our ability to fund our credit programs, capital expenditures and other general corporate needs. An increase in interest rates may have a negative impact on our results of operations. The interest rates on our bank credit facility and the 2002 Series A program under our asset-backed securitization facility fluctuate up or down based upon the LIBOR rate, the prime rate of our administrative agent or the federal funds rate in the case of the bank credit facility and the commercial paper rate in the case of the 2002 Series A program. The level of interest rates in the market in general will impact the interest rate on medium-term notes issued under our asset-backed securitization facility or other debt instruments issued, if any. Additionally, we may issue debt securities or enter into credit facilities under which we pay interest at a higher rate than we have historically paid, which would reduce our margins and negatively impact our results of operations. We have significant future capital needs which we may be unable to fund, and we may need additional funding sooner than currently anticipated. We will need substantial capital to finance our operations and any future expansion plans, including funds for capital expenditures, pre-opening costs and initial operating losses related to any new store openings, and growth in the accounts receivable portfolio. We may not be able to obtain additional capital or financing on acceptable terms. If adequate capital and funds are not available, we will have to curtail future growth, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. Based on our current plans, we estimate that capital expenditures during fiscal 2011 will be approximately $5 million to $10 million and that capital expenditures during future years may exceed this amount, dependent on the availability of capital to fund growth in the future. Our capital expenditure plan for 2011 could increase, depending on the availability of capital to fund new store openings and accounts receivable portfolio growth. We expect that cash provided by operating activities and available borrowings under our credit facilities will be sufficient to fund our operations and capital expenditure programs for at least 12 months. However, this may not be the case. We may be required to seek additional capital earlier than anticipated if future cash flows from operations fail to meet our expectations and costs or capital expenditures exceed anticipated amounts. Our ability to open and operate profitably new stores in existing, adjacent and new geographic markets. While we currently have no plans to open any new stores, we expect to continue our expansion in the future. New stores that we open may not be profitable or meet our goals. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. There are a number of factors that could affect our ability to open and operate new stores consistent with our business plan, including: · the availability of additional financial resources; 21 · competition in existing, adjacent and new markets; · competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns in adjacent and new markets that are different from those in our existing markets; · a lack of consumer demand for our products or financing programs at levels that can support new store growth; · inability to make customer financing programs available that allow consumer to purchase products at levels that can support new store growth; · limitations created by covenants and conditions under our credit facilities and our asset-backed securitization program; · the substantial outlay of financial resources required to open new stores and the possibility that we may recognize little or no related benefit; · an inability or unwillingness of vendors to supply product on a timely basis at competitive prices; · the failure to open enough stores in new markets to achieve a sufficient market presence; · the inability to identify suitable sites and to negotiate acceptable leases for these sites; · unfamiliarity with local real estate markets and demographics in adjacent and new markets; · problems in adapting our distribution and other operational and management systems to an expanded network of stores; · difficulties associated with the hiring, training and retention of additional skilled personnel, including store managers; and · higher costs for print, radio and television advertising. These factors may also affect the ability of any newly opened stores to achieve sales and profitability levels comparable with our existing stores or to become profitable at all. If we are unable to manage our growing business, our revenues may not increase as anticipated, our cost of operations may rise and our results of operations may decline. We face many business risks associated with growing companies, including the risk that our management, financial controls and information systems will be inadequate to support our expansion in the future. Our growth will require management to expend significant time and effort and additional resources to ensure the continuing adequacy of our financial controls, operating procedures, information systems, product purchasing, warehousing and distribution systems and employee training programs. We cannot predict whether we will be able to manage effectively these increased demands or respond on a timely basis to the changing demands that our expansion will impose on our management, financial controls and information systems. If we fail to manage successfully the challenges of growth, do not continue to improve these systems and controls o r encounter unexpected difficulties during expansion, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. A decrease in our credit sales or a decline in credit quality could lead to a decrease in our product sales and profitability. In the last three fiscal years, we financed, on average, approximately 61% of our retail sales through our internal credit programs. Our ability to provide credit as a financing alternative for our customers depends on many factors, including the quality of our accounts receivable portfolio. Payments on some of our credit accounts become delinquent from time to time, and some accounts end up in default, due to several factors, such as general and local economic conditions, including the impact of rising interest rates and unemployment rates. As we expand into new markets, we will obtain new credit accounts that may present a higher risk than our existing credit accounts since new credit customers do not have an established credit history with us. A general decline in the quality of our accou nts receivable portfolio could lead to a reduction in the advance rates used or eligible receivable balances included in the borrowing base calculations and thus a reduction of available credit to fund our finance operations. As a result, if we are required to reduce the amount of credit we grant to our customers, we might sell fewer products, which could adversely affect our earnings. Further, because approximately 60% of our credit customers have historically made their credit account payments in our stores, any decrease in credit sales could reduce traffic in our stores and lower our revenues. A decline in the credit quality of our credit accounts could also cause an increase in our credit losses, which would result in an adverse effect on our earnings. A decline in credit quality could also lead to stricter underwriting criteria which might have a negative impact on net sales. 22 A downturn in the economy may affect consumer purchases of discretionary items, which could reduce our net sales or gross margins. A portion of our net sales represent discretionary spending by our customers. Many factors affect spending, including regional or world events, war, conditions in financial markets, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, energy and gasoline prices, consumer debt levels, the availability of consumer credit, taxation, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. Our customers’ purchases of discretionary items, including our products, could decline during periods when disposable income is lower or periods of actual or perceived unfavorable economic conditions. If this occurs, our net sales and results of operations could decline. We face significant competition from national, regional, local and Internet retailers of home appliances, consumer electronics and furniture. The retail market for consumer electronics is highly fragmented and intensely competitive and the market for home appliances is concentrated among a few major dealers. We currently compete against a diverse group of retailers, including national mass merchants such as Sears, Wal-Mart, Target, Sam’s Club and Costco, specialized national retailers such as Best Buy and Rooms To Go, home improvement stores such as Lowe’s and Home Depot, and locally-owned regional or independent retail specialty stores that sell home appliances, consumer electronics and furniture similar, and often identical, to those items we sell. We also compete with retailers that market products through store catalogs and the Internet. In addition, there are few barriers to entry into our current and contemplated markets, and new comp etitors may enter our current or future markets at any time. We may not be able to compete successfully against existing and future competitors. Some of our competitors have financial resources that are substantially greater than ours and may be able to purchase inventory at lower costs and better sustain economic downturns. As a result, our sales may decline if we cannot offer competitive prices to our customers or we may be required to accept lower profit margins. Our competitors may respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and may have greater resources to devote to promotion and sale of products and services. If two or more competitors consolidate their businesses or enter into strategic partnerships, they may be able to compete more effectively against us. Our existing competitors or new entrants into our industry may use a number of different strategies to compete against us, including: · expansion by our existing competitors or entry by new competitors into markets where we currently operate; · entering the television market as the decreased size of flat-panel televisions allows new entrants to display and sell the product more easily; · lower pricing; · aggressive advertising and marketing; · extension of credit to customers on terms more favorable than we offer; · larger store size, which may result in greater operational efficiencies, or innovative store formats; and · adoption of improved retail sales methods. 23 Competition from any of these sources could cause us to lose market share, sales and customers, increase expenditures or reduce prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If new products are not introduced or consumers do not accept new products, our sales may decline. Our ability to maintain and increase sales depends to a large extent on the periodic introduction and availability of new products and technologies. We believe that the introduction and continued growth in consumer acceptance of new or enhanced products, such as digital Blu-ray players and digital, high-definition televisions, will have a significant impact on our ability to increase sales. These products are subject to significant technological changes and pricing limitations and are subject to the actions and cooperation of third parties, such as movie distributors and television and radio broadcasters, all of which could affect the success of these and other new consumer electronics technologies. It is possible that new products will never achieve widespread consumer acceptance or will be supplanted by al ternative products and technologies that do not offer us a similar sales opportunity or are sold at lower price points or margins. If we fail to anticipate changes in consumer preferences, our sales will decline. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to change. Our success depends upon our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to trends in consumer preferences relating to home appliances and consumer electronics. If we fail to identify and respond to these changes, our sales of these products will decline. In addition, we often make commitments to purchase products from our vendors up to six months in advance of proposed delivery dates. Significant deviation from the projected demand for products that we sell may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, either from lost sales or lower margins due to the need to reduce prices to dispose of excess inventory.< /div> A disruption in our relationships with, or in the operations of, any of our key suppliers could cause our sales to decline. The success of our business and growth strategies depends to a significant degree on our relationships with our suppliers, particularly our brand name suppliers such as General Electric, Whirlpool, Frigidaire, Friedrich, Maytag, LG, Mitsubishi, Panasonic, Samsung, Sony, Toshiba, Bose, Canon, JVC, Serta, Spring Air, Ashley, Lane, Broyhill, Jackson Furniture, Franklin, Hewlett Packard, Compaq, Poulan, Husqvarna and Toro. We do not have long term supply agreements or exclusive arrangements with the majority of our vendors. We typically order our inventory and repair parts through the issuance of individual purchase orders to vendors. We also rely on our suppliers for cooperative advertising support. We may be subject to rationing by suppliers with respect to a number of limited distributio n items. In addition, we rely heavily on a relatively small number of suppliers. Our top five suppliers represented 51.7% of our purchases for fiscal 2010, and the top two suppliers represented approximately 23.3% of our total purchases. The loss of any one or more of these key vendors or failure to establish and maintain relationships with these and other vendors, and limitations on the availability of inventory or repair parts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If one of our vendors were to go out of business, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition if such vendor is unable to fund amounts due to us, including payments due for returns of product and warranty claims. Our ability to enter new markets successfully depends, to a significant extent, on the willingness and ability of our vendors to supply merchandise to additional warehouses or stores. If vendors are unwilling or unable to supply some or all of their products to us at acceptable prices in one or more markets, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, we rely on credit from vendors to purchase our products. As of January 31, 2010, we had $39.9 million in accounts payable and $63.5 million in merchandise inventories. A substantial change in credit terms from vendors or vendors' willingness to extend credit to us, including providing inventory under consignment arrangements, would reduce our ability to obtain the merchandise that we sell, which would have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. Our vendors also supply us with marketing funds and volume rebates. If our vendors fail to continue these incentives it could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. 24 You should not rely on our comparable store sales as an indication of our future results of operations because they fluctuate significantly. Our historical same store sales growth figures have fluctuated significantly from quarter to quarter. For example, same store sales growth for each of the quarters of fiscal 2010 was -4.6%, -5.2%, -9.3%, and -31.7%, respectively, while same store sales growth for each of the quarters for fiscal 2009 was 1.0%, -1.4%, 5.8%, and 12.5%, respectively. A number of factors have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our comparable store sales results, including: · changes in competition, such as pricing pressure, and the opening of new stores by competitors in our markets; · general economic conditions; · new product introductions; · consumer trends; · changes in our merchandise mix; · changes in the relative sales price points of our major product categories; · ability to offer credit programs attractive to our customers; · the impact of any new stores on our existing stores, including potential decreases in existing stores’ sales as a result of opening new stores; · weather conditions in our markets; · timing of promotional events; · timing, location and participants of major sporting events; · reduction in new store openings; · what percentage of our stores are mature stores; · the locations of our stores and the traffic drawn to those areas: · how often we update our stores; and · our ability to execute our business strategy effectively. Changes in our quarterly and annual comparable store sales results could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. Because we experience seasonal fluctuations in our sales, our quarterly results will fluctuate, which could adversely affect our common stock price. We typically experience seasonal fluctuations in our net sales and operating results, with the quarter ending January 31st, which includes the holiday selling season, generally accounting for a larger share of our sales net income. We also incur significant additional expenses during this fiscal quarter due to higher purchase volumes and increased staffing. If we miscalculate the demand for our products generally or for our product mix during the fiscal quarter ending January 31, of if we experience adverse events, such as bad weather in our markets during our fourth fiscal quarter, our net sales could decline, resulting in excess inventory or increased sales discounts to sell excess inventory, which would harm our financial performance. 60;A shortfall in expected net sales, combined with our significant additional expenses during this fiscal quarter, could cause a significant decline in our operating results and such sales may not be deferred to future periods. Our business could be adversely affected by changes in consumer protection laws and regulations. Federal and state consumer protection laws and regulations, such as the Fair Credit Reporting Act, limit the manner in which we may offer and extend credit. Since we finance a substantial portion of our sales, any adverse change in the regulation of consumer credit could adversely affect our total sales and gross margins. For example, new laws or regulations could limit the amount of interest or fees that may be charged on consumer credit accounts or restrict our ability to collect on account balances, which would have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations. Compliance with existing and future laws or regulations could require us to make material expenditures, in particular personnel training costs, or otherwise adversely affect our business or financial results. Failure t o comply with these laws or regulations, even if inadvertent, could result in negative publicity, fines or additional licensing expenses, any of which could have an adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations and stock price. 25 Pending litigation relating to the sale of credit insurance and the sale of repair service agreements in the retail industry could adversely affect our business. We understand that states’ attorneys general and private plaintiffs have filed lawsuits against other retailers relating to improper practices conducted in connection with the sale of credit insurance in several jurisdictions around the country. We offer credit insurance in our stores on sales financed under our credit programs and require the customer to purchase property insurance from us or provide evidence from a third party insurance provider, at their election, in connection with sales of merchandise on installment credit; therefore, similar litigation could be brought against us. While we believe we are in full compliance with applicable laws and regulations, if we are found liable in any future lawsuit regarding credit insurance or repair service agreements, we could be required to pay substantial d amages or incur substantial costs as part of an out-of-court settlement, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and stock price. An adverse judgment or any negative publicity associated with our repair service agreements or any potential credit insurance litigation could also affect our reputation, which could have a negative impact on cash flow and the results of operations. The Texas Attorney General’s lawsuit and the resulting changes to our operations could materially adversely affect our results of operations, stock price and financial position. Under our settlement agreement with the Texas Attorney General relating to litigation filed against us in May of last year, we consented to certain changes made to the service agreements and replacement product plan agreements that we sell for a third party insurer and to strengthen the manner in which we market and service these programs. The impact of the changes in these programs are unknown and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Adverse or negative publicity, including the publicity related to the settlement of the lawsuit filed against us by the Texas Attorney General, could cause our business to suffer or result in copycat lawsuits. Any negative publicity associated with the settlement of the lawsuit filed against us by the Texas Attorney General or our repair service agreements or our product replacement agreements or any other negative publicity could adversely affect our reputation and negatively impact our sales and results of operations. For a discussion of the settlement, see Item 3 – “Legal Proceedings” contained herein. If we lose key management or are unable to attract and retain the qualified sales and credit granting and collection personnel required for our business, our operating results could suffer. Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and continued service of our key executives or the identification of suitable successors for them. If we lose the services of any of these individuals, or if one or more of them or other key personnel decide to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, and we are unable to identify a suitable successor, our business and operations could be harmed, and we could have difficulty in implementing our strategy. In addition, as our business grows, we will need to locate, hire and retain additional qualified sales personnel in a timely manner and develop, train and manage an increasing number of management level sales associates and other employees. Additionally, if we are unable to attract and retain qualified credit granting and collection personnel, our ability to perform quality underwriting of new credit transactions and maintain workloads for our collections personnel at a manageable level, our operation could be adversely impacted and result in higher delinquency and net charge-offs on our credit portfolio. Competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of employees, and increases in the federal minimum wage or other employee benefits costs could increase our operating expenses. If we are unable to attract and retain personnel as needed in the future, our net sales and operating results could suffer. 26 Our costs of doing business could increase as a result of changes in federal, state or local regulations Changes in the federal, state or local minimum wage requirements or changes in other wage or workplace regulations could increase our cost of doing business. In addition, changes in federal, state or local regulations governing the sale of some of our products or tax regulations could increase our cost of doing business. Also, passage of the Employer Free Choice Act or similar laws in Congress could lead to higher labor costs by encouraging unionization efforts among our associates and disruption of store operations. Because our stores are located in Texas, Louisiana and Oklahoma, we are subject to regional risks. Our 76 stores are located exclusively in Texas, Louisiana and Oklahoma. This subjects us to regional risks, such as the economy, weather conditions, hurricanes and other natural disasters. If the region suffered an economic downturn or other adverse regional event, there could be an adverse impact on our net sales and results of operations and our ability to implement our planned expansion program. Several of our competitors operate stores across the United States and thus are not as vulnerable to the risks of operating in one region. Additionally, these states in general, and the local economies where many of our stores are located in particular, are dependent, to a degree, on the oil and gas industries, which can be very volatile. Additionally, because of fears of climate change, legislation has been introduced or is being considered that could materially and adversely impact the oil and gas industries. To the extent the oil and gas industries are negatively impacted by declining commodity prices, climate change legislation and other factors, we could be negatively impacted by reduced employment, or other negative economic factors that impact the local economies where we have our stores. Our information technology infrastructure is vulnerable to damage that could harm our business. Our ability to operate our business from day to day, in particular our ability to manage our credit operations and inventory levels, largely depends on the efficient operation of our computer hardware and software systems. We use management information systems to track inventory information at the store level, communicate customer information, aggregate daily sales information and manage our credit portfolio. These systems and our operations are subject to damage or interruption from: · power loss, computer systems failures and Internet, telecommunications or data network failures; · operator negligence or improper operation by, or supervision of, employees; · physical and electronic loss of data or security breaches, misappropriation and similar events; · computer viruses; · intentional acts of vandalism and similar events; and · hurricanes, fires, floods and other natural disasters. The software that we have developed to use in our daily operations may contain undetected errors that could cause our network to fail or our expenses to increase. Any failure due to any of these causes, if it is not supported by our disaster recovery plan, could cause an interruption in our operations and result in reduced net sales and results of operations. If we are unable to maintain our insurance licenses in the states we operate, our results of operations would suffer. We derive a significant portion of our revenues and operating income from the sale of various insurance products of third-party insurers to our customers. These products include credit insurance, property insurance, repair service agreements and product replacement policies. If for any reason we were unable to maintain our insurance licenses in the states we operate our results of operations would suffer. 27 If we are unable to maintain current insurance coverage for the repair service agreements, our customers who purchase, or have purchased these products, could incur additional costs and our repair expenses would increase, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. There are a limited number of insurance carriers that provide coverage for our repair service agreements. If insurance becomes unavailable from our current carriers for any reason, we may be unable to provide replacement coverage to our customers on the same terms, if at all. Even if we are able to obtain replacement coverage, higher premiums could have an adverse impact on our profitability if we are unable to pass along the increased cost of such coverage to our customers. Inability to obtain insurance coverage for repair service agreements could cause fluctuations in our repair expenses and greater volatility of earnings. If we are unable to maintain group credit insurance policies from insurance carriers, which allow us to offer their credit insurance products to our customers purchasing our merchandise on credit, our revenues could be reduced and bad debts might increase. There are a limited number of insurance carriers that provide credit insurance coverage for sale to our customers. If credit insurance becomes unavailable for any reason we may be unable to offer replacement coverage on the same terms, if at all. Even if we are able to obtain replacement coverage, it may be at higher rates or reduced coverage, which could affect the customer acceptance of these products, reduce our revenues or increase our credit losses. Changes in premium and commission rates allowed by regulators on credit insurance and repair service agreements we sell as allowed by the laws and regulations in the states in which we operate could affect our revenues. We derive a significant portion of our revenues and operating income from the sale of various third-party insurance products to our customers. These products include credit insurance and repair service agreements. If the rate we are allowed to charge on those products declines, our operating results could suffer. Changes in trade regulations, currency fluctuations and other factors beyond our control could affect our business. A significant portion of our inventory is manufactured and/or assembled overseas and in Mexico. Changes in trade regulations, currency fluctuations or other factors beyond our control may increase the cost of items we purchase or create shortages of these items, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Conversely, significant reductions in the cost of these items in U.S. dollars may cause a significant reduction in the retail prices of those products, resulting in a material adverse effect on our sales, margins or competitive position. In addition, commissions earned on both our credit insurance and repair service agreement products could be adversely affected by changes in statutory premium rates, commission rates, adverse claims experien ce and other factors. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights, which could impair our name and reputation. We believe that our success and ability to compete depends in part on consumer identification of the name "Conn’s." We have registered the trademarks "Conn’s" and our logo. We intend to protect vigorously our trademark against infringement or misappropriation by others. A third party, however, could attempt to misappropriate our intellectual property in the future. The enforcement of our proprietary rights through litigation could result in substantial costs to us that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Failure to protect the security of our customer’s information could expose us to litigation, judgments for damages and undermine the trust placed with us by our customers. We capture, transmit, handle and store sensitive information, which involves certain inherent security risks. Such risks include, among other things, the interception of by persons outside the Company or by our own employees. While we believe we have taken appropriate steps to protect confidential information, there can be no assurance that we can prevent the compromise of our customers’ data or other confidential information. If such a breach should occur at Conn’s, it could have a severe negative impact on our business and results of operations. 28 Any changes in the tax laws of the states in which we operate could affect our state tax liabilities. Additionally, beginning operations in new states could also affect our state tax liabilities. As we experienced in fiscal year 2008 with the change in the Texas tax law, legislation could be introduced at any time that changes our state tax liabilities in a way that has an adverse impact on our results of operations. The Texas margin tax increased our effective rate from approximately 35.3%, before its introduction, to 38.1% in fiscal year 2009 and to 44.5% in fiscal year 2010. Our recent commencement of operations in Oklahoma and the potential to enter new states in the future could adversely affect our results of operations, dependent upon the tax laws in place in those states. Significant volatility in oil and gasoline prices could affect our customers’ determination to drive to our stores, and cause us to raise our delivery charges. Significant volatility in oil and gasoline prices could adversely affect our customers’ shopping decisions and patterns. We rely heavily on our internal distribution system and our next day delivery policy to satisfy our customers’ needs and desires, and increases in oil and gasoline prices could result in increased distribution charges. Such increases may not significantly affect our competitors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 