Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves risks and uncertainties. You should consider carefully the following information about these risks and uncertainties before buying shares of our common stock. The occurrence of any of the risks described below could adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition or results of operations. In that case, the trading price of our stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of the value of your investment. We have significant future capital needs and the inability to obtain funding for our credit operations may adversely affect our business and expansion plans. We currently finance our customer receivables through an asset-based loan facility and a second-lien term loan that together provide $475.0 million in financing commitments. As of January 31, 2011, we had $281.2 million outstanding under our $375.0 million asset-based revolving credit facility, including standby letters of credit issued. We also had $100.0 million, excluding original issue discount, outstanding under our second lien term loan, leaving us with total borrowing capacity of $93.8 million, subject to covenant limitations, including a $25 million minimum availability requirement. Our ability to raise additional capital through future securitization transactions or other debt or equity transactions, and to do so on economically favorable terms, depends in large part on factors that are beyond our control. These factors include: • Conditions in the securities and finance markets generally; • Our credit rating or the credit rating of any securities we may issue; • Economic conditions; • Conditions in the markets for securitized instruments, or other debt or equity instruments; • The credit quality and performance of our customer receivables; • Our overall sales performance and profitability; • Our ability to obtain financial support for required credit enhancement; • Our ability to adequately service our financial instruments; • Our ability to meet debt covenant requirements; and • Prevailing interest rates. If adequate capital and funds are not available at the time we need capital, we will have to curtail future growth, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flow. As we grow our business, capital expenditures during future years are likely to exceed our historical capital expenditures. The ultimate amount of capital expenditures needed will be dependent on, among other factors, the availability of capital to fund new store openings and customer receivables portfolio growth. In addition, we historically used our customer receivables collateral to raise funds through securitization programs. In fiscal 2011 we completed amendments to our existing credit facilities and our recently terminated securitization facilities to obtain relief from covenant violations and revise certain covenant requirements. If we require amendments in the future and are unable to obtain such amendments or we are unable to arrange substitute financing facilities or other sources of capital, we may have to limit or cease offering credit through our finance programs due to our inability to draw under our revolving credit facility upon the occurrence of a default. If availability under the borrowing base calculations of our revolving credit facility is reduced, or otherwise becomes unavailable, or we are unable to arrange substitute financing facilities or other sources of capital, we may have to limit the amount of credit that we make available through our customer finance programs. A reduction in our ability to offer customer credit will adversely affect revenues and results of operations and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Further, our inability or 20 Table of Contents limitations on our ability to obtain funding through securitization facilities or other sources may adversely affect our profitability under our credit programs if existing customers fail to repay outstanding credit due to our refusal to grant additional credit. Additionally, the inability of any of the financial institutions providing our financing facilities to fund their commitment would adversely affect our ability to fund our credit programs, capital expenditures and other general corporate needs. If we are unable to renew or replace our existing credit facilities in the future, we would be required to reduce, or possibly cease, offering customer credit which could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations in the same manner as discussed above. Failure to comply with our covenants in our credit facilities could materially and adversely affect us. Under our existing ABL facility and the term loan, we will have certain obligations, including maintaining certain financial covenants. If we fail to maintain the financial covenants in our credit facilities and are not able to obtain relief from any covenant violation, then an event of default could occur and the lenders could cease lending to us and accelerate the payments of our debt. Any such action by the lenders could materially and adversely affect us and could even result in bankruptcy. While we are in compliance with the covenants in our existing facilities, if our retail and credit operation performance deteriorates, we could be in breach of one or more covenants within the next twelve months. Future financings could adversely affect common stock ownership interest and rights in comparison with those of other security holders. Our board of directors has the power to issue additional shares of common or preferred stock without stockholder approval. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage of ownership of our existing stockholders will be reduced, and these newly issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. If we issue additional common stock or securities convertible into common stock, such issuance will reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of each other stockholder. In addition, such stock issuances might result in a reduction of the book value of our common stock. Increased borrowing costs will negatively impact our results of operations. Because most of our customer receivables have interest rates equal to the highest rate allocated under applicable law, we will not be able to pass these higher borrowing costs along to our customers and our results of operations will be negatively impacted. In addition, the interest rates on our revolving credit facility fluctuate upon or down based upon the LIBOR rate, the prime rate of our administrative agent or the federal funds rate. The interest rate on our term loan will fluctuate up or down based upon the LIBOR rate, with a floor on the LIBOR rate used in computing interest of 3.0%. The level of interest rates in the market in general will impact the interest rate on any debt instruments issued, if any. Additionally, we may issue debt securities or enter into credit facilities under which we pay interest at a higher rate than we have historically paid, which would further reduce our margins and negatively impact our results of operations. We may not be able to open and profitably operate new stores in existing, adjacent and new geographic markets. Dependent on capital availability, we intend to reinstate our new store opening program. New stores are not likely to be profitable on an operating basis during the first three to nine months after they open and even after that time period may not be profitable or meet our goals. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. There are a number of factors that could affect our ability to open and operate new stores consistent with our business plan, including: • The availability of additional financial resources; • The availability of favorable sites in existing adjacent and new markets at price levels consistent with our business plan; • Competition in existing, adjacent and new markets; 21 Table of Contents • Competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns in adjacent and new markets that are different from those in our existing markets; • A lack of consumer demand for our products or financing programs at levels that can support new store growth; • Inability to make customer financing programs available that allow consumer to purchase products at levels that can support new store growth; • Limitations created by covenants and conditions under our revolving credit facility and term loan; • The substantial outlay of financial resources required to open new stores and the possibility that we may recognize little or no related benefit; • The inability to identify suitable sites and to negotiate acceptable leases for these sites; • An inability or unwillingness of vendors to supply product on a timely basis at competitive prices; • The failure to open enough stores in new markets to achieve a sufficient market presence and realize the benefits of leveraging our advertising and our distribution system; • Unfamiliarity with local real estate markets and demographics in adjacent and new markets; • Problems in adapting our distribution and other operational and management systems to an expanded network of stores; • Difficulties associated with the hiring, training and retention of additional skilled personnel, including store managers; and • Higher costs for print, radio and television advertising. These factors may also affect the ability of any newly opened stores to achieve sales and profitability levels comparable with our existing stores or to become profitable at all. As a result, we may determine that we need to close additional stores or continue to reduce the hours of operation in some stores, which could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows, as we may incur additional expenses and non-cash write-offs related to closing a store and settling our remaining lease obligations and our initial investment in fixed assets and related store costs. If we are unable to manage our growing business, our revenues may not increase as anticipated, our cost of operations may rise and our results of operations may decline. At the time we re-initiate our store opening plan and begin growing our store base, we will face many business risks associated with growing companies, including the risk that our management, financial controls and information systems will be inadequate to support our expansion in the future. Our growth will require management to expend significant time and effort and additional resources to ensure the continuing adequacy of our financial controls, operating procedures, information systems, product purchasing, warehousing and distribution systems and employee training programs. We cannot predict whether we will be able to manage effectively these increased demands or respond on a timely basis to the changing demands that our expansion will impose on our management, financial controls and information systems. If we fail to manage successfully the challenges of growth, do not continue to improve these systems and controls or encounter unexpected difficulties during expansion, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We may expand our retail offerings which may have different operating or legal requirements than our current operations. In addition to the retail and consumer finance products we currently offer, we may offer other products and services in the future, including “rent-to-own” sales. These products and services may require additional or different operating systems or have additional or different legal or regulatory requirements than the products and services we currently offer. 22 Table of Contents In the event we undertake such an expansion and do not have the proper infrastructure or personnel, or do not successfully execute such an expansion, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. A decrease in our credit sales or a decline in credit quality could lead to a decrease in our product sales and profitability. In the last three fiscal years, we financed, on average, approximately 60% of our retail sales through our in-house propriety credit programs to customers with a broad range of credit worthiness. A large portion of our credit portfolio is to customers considered by many to be subprime borrowers. Our ability to provide credit as a financing alternative for our customers depends on many factors, including the quality of our customer receivable portfolio. Payments on some of our credit accounts become delinquent from time to time, and some accounts end up in default, due to several factors, such as general and local economic conditions, including the impact of rising interest rates and unemployment rates. As we expand into new markets, we will obtain new credit accounts that may present a higher risk than our existing credit accounts since new credit customers do not have an established credit history with us. A general decline in the quality of our customer receivable portfolio could lead to a reduction in the advance rates used or eligible customer receivable balances included in the borrowing base calculations under our revolving credit facility and thus a reduction of available credit to fund our finance operations. As a result, if we are required to reduce the amount of credit we grant to our customers, we most likely would sell fewer products, which would adversely affect our earnings and cash flows. Further, because approximately 61% of our credit customers have historically made their credit account payments in our stores, any decrease in credit sales could reduce traffic in our stores and lower our revenues. A decline in the credit quality of our credit accounts could also cause an increase in our credit losses, which would result in an adverse effect on our earnings. A decline in credit quality could also lead to stricter underwriting criteria which would likely have a negative impact on net sales. Deterioration in the performance of our customer receivables portfolio could significantly affect our liquidity position and profitability. Our liquidity position and profitability are heavily dependent on our ability to collect our customer receivables. If our customer receivables portfolio were to substantially deteriorate, the liquidity available to us would most likely be reduced due to the challenges of complying with the covenants and borrowing base calculations under our revolving credit facility and our earnings may decline due to higher provisions for bad debt expense, higher servicing costs, higher net charge-off rates and lower interest and fee income. Our ability to collect from credit customers may be materially impaired by store closings and our need to rely on a replacement servicer in the event of our liquidation. We may be unable to collect a large portion of periodic credit payments should our stores close as many of our customers remit payments “in store”. During the course of fiscal 2011, approximately 61% of our active credit customers made a payment in one of our stores. In the event of store closings, credit customers may not pay balances in a timely fashion, or may not pay at all, since a large number of our customers have not traditionally made payments to a central location. In addition, we service all of our credit customers through our in-house servicing operation. At this time, there is not a formalized back-up servicer plan in place for our customer receivables. In the event of our liquidation, a servicing arrangement would have to be implemented, which could materially impact the collection of our customer receivables. In deciding whether to extend credit to customers, we rely on the accuracy and completeness of information furnished to us by or on behalf of our credit customers. If we and our systems are unable to detect any misrepresentations in this information, this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In deciding whether to extend credit to customers, we rely heavily on information furnished to us by or on behalf of our credit customers and our ability to validate such information through third-party services, including employment and personal financial information. If a significant percentage of our credit customers intentionally or negligently misrepresent any of this information, and we and our systems did not detect such misrepresentations, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to effectively manage our credit risk, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 23 Table of Contents Our policy of reaging certain delinquent borrowers affects our delinquency statistics and the timing and amount of our write-offs. As of January 31, 2011, 18.5% of our credit portfolio consisted of “reaged” customer receivables. Reaging is offered to certain eligible past due customers if they meet the conditions of our reage policy. Our decision to offer a delinquent customer a reage program is based on that borrower’s specific condition, our history with the borrower, the amount of the loan and various other factors. When we reage a customer’s account, we move the account from a delinquent status to a current status. Management exercises a considerable amount of discretion over the reaging process and has the ability to reage an account multiple times during its life. Treating an otherwise uncollectible account as current affects our delinquency statistics, as well as impacting the timing and amount of charge-offs. If these accounts had been charged off sooner, our net loss rates might have been higher. If we fail to timely contact delinquent borrowers, then the number of delinquent customer receivables eventually being charged off could increase. We contact customers with delinquent credit account balances soon after the account becomes delinquent. During periods of increased delinquencies it is important that we are proactive in dealing with borrowers rather than simply allowing customer receivables to go to charge-off. Historically, when our servicing becomes involved at an earlier stage of delinquency with credit counseling and workout programs, there is a greater likelihood that the customer receivable will not be charged off. During periods of increased delinquencies, it becomes extremely important that we are properly staffed and trained to assist borrowers in bringing the delinquent balance current and ultimately avoiding charge-off. If we do not properly staff and train our collections personnel, then the number of accounts in a delinquent status or charged-off could increase. In addition, managing a substantially higher volume of delinquent customer receivables typically increases our operational costs. A rise in delinquencies or charge-offs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We rely on internal models to manage risk and to provide accounting estimates. Our results could be adversely affected if those models do not provide reliable accounting estimates or predictions of future activity. We make significant use of business and financial models in connection with our efforts to measure and monitor our risk exposures and to manage our credit portfolio. For example, we use models as a basis for credit underwriting decisions, portfolio delinquency, charge-off and collection expectations and other market risks, based on economic factors and our experience. The information provided by these models is used in making business decisions relating to strategies, initiatives, transactions and pricing, as well as our provisions for bad debt expense and the size of our allowance for doubtful accounts, among other accounting estimates. Models are inherently imperfect predictors of actual results because they are based on historical data available to us and our assumptions about factors such as credit demand, payment rates, default rates, delinquency rates and other factors that may overstate or understate future experience. Our models could produce unreliable results for a number of reasons, including the limitations of historical data to predict results due to unprecedented events or circumstances, invalid or incorrect assumptions underlying the models, the need for manual adjustments in response to rapid changes in economic conditions, incorrect coding of the models, incorrect data being used by the models or inappropriate application of a model to products or events outside of the model’s intended use. In particular, models are less dependable when the economic environment is outside of historical experience, as has been the case recently. In addition, we continually receive new economic data. Our critical accounting estimates, such as our provision for bad debt expense and the size of our allowance for doubtful accounts, are subject to change, often significantly, due to the nature and magnitude of changes in economic conditions. However, there is generally a lag between the availability of this economic information and the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. When economic conditions change quickly and in unforeseen ways, there is a risk that the assumptions and inputs reflected in our models are not representative of current economic conditions. Due to the factors described above and in “Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations” and elsewhere in this report, we may be required or may deem it necessary to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts in the future. Increasing our allowance for doubtful accounts would adversely affect our results of operations and our financial position. 24 Table of Contents The dramatic changes in the economy, credit and capital markets have required frequent adjustments to our models and the application of greater management judgment in the interpretation and adjustment of the results produced by our models. This application of greater management judgment reflects the need to take into account updated information while continuing to maintain controlled processes for model updates, including model development, testing, independent validation and implementation. As a result of the time and resources, including technical and staffing resources, that are required to perform these processes effectively, it may not be possible to replace existing models quickly enough to ensure that they will always properly account for the impacts of recent information and actions. The current economic downturn has affected consumer purchases of discretionary items from us as well as their ability to repay their credit obligations to us, which could have a continued or prolonged negative effect on our net sales, gross margins and credit portfolio performance. A significant portion of our net sales represent discretionary spending by our customers. Many factors affect spending, including regional or world events, war, conditions in financial markets, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, energy and gasoline prices, consumer debt levels, the availability of consumer credit, taxation, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. Our customers’ purchases of discretionary items, including our products, decline during periods when disposable income is lower or periods of actual or perceived unfavorable economic conditions. If this occurs, our net sales and results of operations would decline. Recent turmoil in the national economy, including instability in the financial markets, declining consumer confidence and volatile oil prices have negatively impacted our markets and may present significant challenges to our operations in the coming quarters. Specifically, sales volumes and gross profit margins have been negatively impacted, and thus negatively impacted our overall profitability and liquidity, and these effects may continue for several additional fiscal quarters. Also, the declining economic conditions in our markets have impacted our customers’ ability to repay their credit obligations to us and thus our credit portfolio performance, including, net charge offs and delinquency trends, and we experienced significant declines in same-store sales. These factors led to a net operating loss in the second half of fiscal 2010, and as a result, we entered into amendments to our revolving credit facility and our prior securitization facilities to modify our covenants. If these conditions persist, we may incur further operating losses in the future and we may be required to seek covenant relief under our revolving credit facility and our term loan, curtail our expansion plans, sell assets and take other measures to continue our access to capital. We face significant competition from national, regional, local and Internet retailers of home appliances, consumer electronics and furniture. The retail market for consumer electronics is highly fragmented and intensely competitive and the market for home appliances is concentrated among a few major dealers. We currently compete against a diverse group of retailers, including national mass merchants such as Sears, Wal-Mart, Target, Sam’s Club and Costco, specialized national retailers such as Best Buy and Rooms To Go, home improvement stores such as Lowe’s and Home Depot, and locally-owned regional or independent retail specialty stores that sell home appliances, consumer electronics and furniture similar, and often identical, to those items we sell. We also compete with retailers that market products through store catalogs and the Internet. In addition, there are few barriers to entry into our current and contemplated markets, and new competitors may enter our current or future markets at any time. We may not be able to compete successfully against existing and future competitors. Some of our competitors have financial resources that are substantially greater than ours and may be able to purchase inventory at lower costs and better endure economic downturns. As a result, our sales may decline if we cannot offer competitive prices to our customers or we may be required to accept lower profit margins. Our competitors may respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and may have greater resources to devote to promotion and sale of products and services. If two or more competitors consolidate their businesses or enter into strategic partnerships, they may be able to compete more effectively against us. Our existing competitors or new entrants into our industry may use a number of different strategies to compete against us, including: • Expansion by our existing competitors or entry by new competitors into markets where we currently operate; 25 Table of Contents • Entering the television market as the decreased size of flat-panel televisions allows new entrants to display and sell these products more easily; • Lower pricing; • Aggressive advertising and marketing; • Extension of credit to customers on terms more favorable than we offer; • Larger store size, which may result in greater operational efficiencies, or innovative store formats; and • Adoption of improved retail sales methods. Competition from any of these sources could cause us to lose market share, sales and customers, increase expenditures or reduce prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If new products are not introduced or consumers do not accept new products, our sales may decline. Our ability to maintain and increase sales depends to a large extent on the periodic introduction and availability of new products and technologies. We believe that the introduction and continued growth in consumer acceptance of new or enhanced products, such as digital Blu-ray players and 3-D digital, high-definition televisions, will have a significant impact on our ability to increase sales. These products are subject to significant technological changes and pricing limitations and are subject to the actions and cooperation of third parties, such as movie distributors and television and radio broadcasters, all of which could affect the success of these and other new consumer electronics technologies. It is possible that new products will never achieve widespread consumer acceptance or will be supplanted by alternative products and technologies that do not offer us a similar sales opportunity or are sold at lower price points or margins. If we fail to anticipate changes in consumer preferences, our sales will decline. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to change. Our success depends upon our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to trends in consumer preferences relating to home appliances, consumer electronics and furniture. If we fail to identify and respond to these changes, our sales of these products will decline. In addition, we often make commitments to purchase products from our vendors up to nine months in advance of proposed delivery dates. Significant deviation from the projected demand for products that we sell may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, either from lost sales or lower margins due to the need to reduce prices to dispose of excess inventory. We may experience significant price pressures over the life cycle of our products from competing technologies and our competitors and we may not be able to maintain our historical gross margin levels. Prices for many of our products decrease over their life cycle. Such decreases often result in decreased gross profit margins for us. There is also substantial and continuing pressure from customers to reduce their total costs for products. Suppliers may also seek to reduce our margins on the sales of their products in order to increase their own profitability. The consumer electronics industry depends on new products to drive same store sales increases. Typically, these new products, such as high-definition LED and 3-D televisions, Blu-ray and DVD players and digital cameras are introduced at relatively high price points that are then gradually reduced as the product becomes mainstream. To sustain positive same store sales growth, unit sales must increase at a rate greater than the decline in product prices. The affordability of the product helps drive the unit sales growth. However, as a result of relatively short product life cycles in the consumer electronics industry, which limit the amount of time available for sales volume to increase, combined with rapid price erosion in the industry, retailers are challenged to maintain overall gross margin levels and positive same store sales. This has historically been our experience, and we continue to adjust our marketing strategies to address this challenge through the introduction of new product categories and new products within our existing categories. Gross margins realized on product sales fell from 22.0% in fiscal year 2009 to 21.2% in fiscal year 2011. If we fail to accurately anticipate the introduction of new technologies, we may possess significant amounts of obsolete inventory that can only be sold at substantially lower prices and profit margins than we anticipated. In addition, we may not be able to maintain our historical margin levels in the future due to increased sales of lower margin products such as personal electronics products and declines in average selling prices of key products. If sales of lower margin items continue to increase and replace sales of higher margin items or our consumer electronics products average selling prices decreases due to the maturity of their life cycle, our gross margin and overall gross profit levels will be adversely affected. 26 Table of Contents A disruption in our relationships with, or in the operations of, any of our key suppliers could cause our sales to decline. The success of our business and growth strategies depends to a significant degree on our relationships with our suppliers, particularly our brand name suppliers such as General Electric, Whirlpool, Frigidaire, Friedrich, Maytag, LG, Mitsubishi, Panasonic, Samsung, Sony, Toshiba, Bose, Canon, JVC, Serta, Spring Air, Ashley, Lane, Broyhill, Jackson Furniture, Franklin, Hewlett Packard, Compaq, Poulan, Husqvarna and Toro. We do not have long term supply agreements or exclusive arrangements with the majority of our vendors. We typically order our inventory and repair parts through the issuance of individual purchase orders to vendors. We also rely on our suppliers for cooperative advertising support. We may be subject to rationing by suppliers with respect to a number of limited distribution items. In addition, we rely heavily on a relatively small number of suppliers. Our top six suppliers represented 68.7% of our purchases for fiscal 2011, and the top two suppliers represented approximately 41.1% of our total purchases. The loss of any one or more of these key vendors or failure to establish and maintain relationships with these and other vendors, and limitations on the availability of inventory or repair parts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If one of our vendors were to go out of business, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition if such vendor is unable to fund amounts due to us, including payments due for returns of product and warranty claims. Catastrophic events, such as the one currently impacting Japan, could adversely impact the supply of products or components used by some of our vendors to make the products they supply to us and could adversely impact our results of operations. Our ability to enter new markets successfully depends, to a significant extent, on the willingness and ability of our vendors to supply merchandise to additional warehouses or stores. If vendors are unwilling or unable to supply some or all of their products to us at acceptable prices in one or more markets, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, we rely on credit from vendors to purchase our products. As of January 31, 2011, we had $57.7 million in accounts payable and $82.4 million in merchandise inventories. A substantial change in credit terms from vendors or vendors’ willingness to extend credit to us, including providing inventory under consignment arrangements, would reduce our ability to obtain the merchandise that we sell, which would have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. Our vendors also supply us with marketing funds and volume rebates. If our vendors fail to continue these incentives it could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. You should not rely on our comparable store sales as an indication of our future results of operations because they fluctuate significantly. Our historical same store sales growth figures have fluctuated significantly from quarter to quarter. For example, same store sales growth for each of the quarters of fiscal 2010 and of fiscal 2011 was -4.6%, -5.2%, -9.3%, -31.7%, -19.7%, -6.4%, -16.3%, and 5.2% respectively, while same store sales growth for each of the quarters for fiscal 2009 was 1.0%, -1.4%, -5.8%, and 12.5%, respectively. A number of factors have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our comparable store sales results, including: • Changes in competition, such as pricing pressure, and the opening of new stores by competitors in our markets; • General economic conditions; • New product introductions; • Consumer trends; • Changes in our merchandise mix; • Changes in the relative sales price points of our major product categories; 27 Table of Contents • Ability to offer credit programs attractive to our customers; • The impact of any new stores on our existing stores, including potential decreases in existing stores’ sales as a result of opening new stores; • Weather conditions in our markets; • Timing of promotional events; • Timing, location and participants of major sporting events; • Reduction in new store openings; • The percentage of our stores that are mature stores; • The locations of our stores and the traffic drawn to those areas: • How often we update our stores; and • Our ability to execute our business strategy effectively. Changes in our quarterly and annual comparable store sales results could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. We experience seasonal fluctuations in our sales and quarterly results. We typically experience seasonal fluctuations in our net sales and operating results, with the quarter ending January 31, which includes the holiday selling season, generally accounting for a larger share of our net sales and net income. We also incur significant additional expenses during such fiscal quarter due to higher purchase volumes and increased staffing. If we miscalculate the demand for our products generally or for our product mix during the fiscal quarter ending January 31, or if we experience adverse events, such as bad weather in our markets during our fourth fiscal quarter, our net sales could decline, resulting in excess inventory or increased sales discounts to sell excess inventory, which would harm our financial performance. A shortfall in expected net sales, combined with our significant additional expenses during this fiscal quarter, could cause a significant decline in our operating results and such sales may not be deferred to future periods. Our business could be adversely affected by changes in consumer protection laws and regulations. Federal and state consumer protection laws and regulations, such as the Fair Credit Reporting Act, limit the manner in which we may offer and extend credit. Because our customers finance through our credit segment a substantial portion of our sales, any adverse change in the regulation of consumer credit could adversely affect our total sales and gross margins. For example, new laws or regulations could limit the amount of interest or fees that may be charged on consumer credit accounts, including by reducing the maximum interest rate that can be charged in the states in which we operate, or restrict our ability to collect on account balances, which would have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations. Compliance with existing and future laws or regulations, including regulations that may be applicable to us under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which was enacted into law in July 2010, could require us to make material expenditures, in particular personnel training costs, or otherwise adversely affect our business or financial results. Failure to comply with these laws or regulations, even if inadvertent, could result in negative publicity, fines or additional licensing expenses, any of which could have an adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations. Pending litigation relating to the sale of credit insurance and the sale of repair service agreements in the retail industry could adversely affect our business. We understand that states’ attorneys general and private plaintiffs have filed lawsuits against other retailers relating to improper practices conducted in connection with the sale of credit insurance in several jurisdictions around the country. We offer credit insurance in our stores on sales financed under our credit programs and require the customer to purchase property insurance from us or provide evidence from a third party insurance provider, at their election, in 28 Table of Contents connection with sales of merchandise on installment credit; therefore, similar litigation could be brought against us. While we believe we are in full compliance with applicable laws and regulations, if we are found liable in any future lawsuit regarding credit insurance or repair service agreements, we could be required to pay substantial damages or incur substantial costs as part of an out-of-court settlement or require us to modify or suspend certain operations any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. An adverse judgment or any negative publicity associated with our repair service agreements or any potential credit insurance litigation could also affect our reputation, which could have a negative impact on our cash flow and results of operations. Pending and potential litigation regarding alleged patent infringements could result in significant costs to us to defend what we consider to be spurious claims Recently the manufacturing, retail and software industries have been the targets of patent litigation claimants filing claims or demands based upon alleged patent ownership infringement through the manufacturing and selling, either in merchandise or through software and internet websites, of product or merely providing access through website portals. We, in conjunction with multiple other parties, have been the targets of such claims. While we believe that we have not violated or infringed on any alleged patent ownership rights, and intend to defend vigorously any such claims, the cost to defend, settle or pay any such claims could be substantial, and could have an adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations. Adverse or negative publicity, including the publicity related to the settlement of the lawsuit filed against us by the Texas Attorney General, could cause our business to suffer or result in copycat lawsuits. Any negative publicity associated with the settlement of the lawsuit filed against us by the Texas Attorney General or our repair service agreements or our product replacement agreements or any other negative publicity could adversely affect our reputation and negatively impact our sales and results of operations. On November 24, 2009, we settled litigation filed against us earlier in the year by the Texas Attorney General. The suit alleged that we engaged in deceptive trade practices in violation of the Texas Deceptive Trade Practices-Consumer Protection Act regarding our service maintenance and product replacement agreement business activities. The Attorney General alleged, among other things, that we failed to honor product maintenance and replacement agreements, misled customers about the nature of our product maintenance and replacement arrangements, and engaged in false advertising with respect to our product maintenance and replacement agreements. We denied those allegations in our answer to the suit and, under the terms of the settlement with the Texas Attorney General, we continue to deny any wrongdoing. However, the negative publicity associated with this settlement or our service maintenance and replacement program agreements could adversely affect our reputation and negatively impact our net sales. Our corporate actions may be substantially controlled by our principal shareholders and affiliated entities. As of January 31, 2011, Stephens Inc. and The Stephens Group, LLC, two of our stockholders and their affiliated entities beneficially owned approximately 24.9% and 26.8%, respectively, of our common stock and their interests may conflict with the will or interests of our other equity holders. While Stephens Inc. and its affiliates hold their 24.9% of our common stock through a voting trust that will vote the shares in the same proportion as votes cast by all other stockholders, this voting trust agreement will expire in 2013, unless extended, and upon expiration Stephens Inc. and its affiliates will not be restricted on how it votes its shares. These stockholders, acting individually or as a group, could exert substantial influence over matters such as electing directors and approving mergers or other business combination transactions. If we lose key management or are unable to attract and retain the qualified sales and credit granting and collection personnel required for our business, our operating results could suffer. Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and continued service of our key executives or the identification of suitable successors for them. If we lose the services of any of these individuals, or if one or more of them or other key personnel decide to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, and we are unable to identify a suitable successor, our business and operations could be harmed, and we could have difficulty in implementing our strategy. Our Chief Executive Officer has recently resigned and the Chairman of our Board of Directors is currently serving as our interim Chief Executive Officer. If we are unable to find a suitable successor in a timely manner, it could have an adverse impact on our business and operations. In addition, as our business grows, we will need to locate, hire and retain additional qualified sales personnel in a timely manner and develop, train and manage an increasing number of management level sales associates and other employees. Additionally, if we are unable to attract 29 Table of Contents and retain qualified credit granting and collection personnel, our ability to perform quality underwriting of new credit transactions and maintain workloads for our collections personnel at a manageable level, our operation could be adversely impacted and result in higher delinquency and net charge-offs on our credit portfolio. Competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of employees, and increases in the federal minimum wage or other employee benefits costs could increase our operating expenses. If we are unable to attract and retain personnel as needed in the future, our net sales and operating results could suffer. Our costs of doing business could increase as a result of changes in federal, state or local regulations. Changes in the federal, state or local minimum wage requirements or changes in other wage or workplace regulations could increase our cost of doing business. In addition, changes in federal, state or local regulations governing the sale of some of our products or tax regulations could increase our cost of doing business. Also, passage of the Employer Free Choice Act or similar laws in Congress could lead to higher labor costs by encouraging unionization efforts among our associates and disruption of store operations. Because our stores are located in Texas, Louisiana and Oklahoma, we are subject to regional risks. Our 76 stores are located exclusively in Texas, Louisiana and Oklahoma. This subjects us to regional risks, such as the economy, weather conditions, hurricanes and other natural or man-made disasters. If the region suffers a continued or another economic downturn or any other adverse regional event, there could be an adverse impact on our net sales and results of operations and our ability to implement our planned expansion program once we have adequate capital availability. Several of our competitors operate stores across the United States and thus are not as vulnerable to the risks of operating in one region. Additionally, these states in general, and the local economies where many of our stores are located in particular, are dependent, to a degree, on the oil and gas industries, which can be very volatile. Additionally, because of fears of climate change and adverse effects of drilling explosions and oil spills in the Gulf of Mexico, legislation has been introduced or is being considered, and governmental emergency pronouncements, regulations and orders have been issued and are under consideration, including moratoriums on offshore drilling, which, combined with the local economic and employment conditions caused by both, could materially and adversely impact the oil and gas industries and the areas in which a majority of our stores are located in Texas and Louisiana. To the extent the oil and gas industries are negatively impacted by declining commodity prices, climate change or other legislation and other factors, we could be negatively impacted by reduced employment, or other negative economic factors that impact the local economies where we have our stores. In addition, recent turmoil in the national economy, including instability in the financial markets, has impacted our local markets. The current recession or a further downturn in the general economy, or in the region where we have our stores, could have a negative impact on our net sales and results of operations. Our information technology infrastructure is vulnerable to damage that could harm our business. Our ability to operate our business from day to day, in particular our ability to manage our credit operations and inventory levels, largely depends on the efficient operation of our computer hardware and software systems. We use management information systems to track inventory information at the store level, communicate customer information, aggregate daily sales information and manage our credit portfolio, including processing of credit applications and management of collections. These systems and our operations are subject to damage or interruption from: • Power loss, computer systems failures and Internet, telecommunications or data network failures; • Operator negligence or improper operation by, or supervision of, employees; • Physical and electronic loss of data or security breaches, misappropriation and similar events; • Computer viruses; • Intentional acts of vandalism and similar events; and • Hurricanes, fires, floods and other natural disasters. In addition, the software that we have developed to use in our daily operations may contain undetected errors that could cause our network to fail or our expenses to increase. Any failure of our systems due to any of these causes, if it is not supported by our disaster recovery plan, could cause an interruption in our operations and result in reduced net sales 30 Table of Contents and results of operations. Though we have implemented contingency and disaster recovery processes in the event of one or several technology failures, any unforeseen failure, interruption or compromise of our systems or our security measures could affect our flow of business and, if prolonged, could harm our reputation. The risk of possible failures or interruptions may not be adequately addressed by us or the third parties on which we rely, and such failures or interruptions could occur. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. If we are unable to maintain our insurance licenses in the states we operate, our results of operations would suffer. We derive a significant portion of our revenues and operating income from the commissions we earn from the sale of various insurance products of third-party insurers to our customers. These products include credit insurance, repair service agreements and product replacement policies. We also are the direct obligor on certain extended repair service agreements we offer to our customers. If for any reason we were unable to maintain our insurance licenses in the states we operate or if there are material claims or future material litigation involving our repair service agreements or product replacement policies, our results of operations would suffer. If we are unable to continue to offer third-party repair service agreements to our customers who purchase, or have purchased our products, we could incur additional costs or repair expenses, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. There are a limited number of insurance carriers that provide repair service agreement programs. If insurance becomes unavailable from our current providers for any reason, we may be unable to provide repair service agreements to our customers on the same terms, if at all. Even if we are able to obtain a substitute provider, higher premiums may be required, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability if we are unable to pass along the increased cost of such coverage to our customers. Inability to maintain the repair service agreement program could cause fluctuations in our repair expenses and greater volatility of earnings and could require us to become the obligor under new contracts sold. If we are unable to maintain group credit insurance policies from insurance carriers, which allow us to offer their credit insurance products to our customers purchasing our merchandise on credit, our revenues would be reduced and the provision for bad debts might increase. There are a limited number of insurance carriers that provide credit insurance coverage for sale to our customers. If credit insurance becomes unavailable for any reason we may be unable to offer substitute coverage on the same terms, if at all. Even if we are able to obtain substitute coverage, it may be at higher rates or reduced coverage, which could affect the customer acceptance of these products, reduce our revenues or increase our credit losses. Changes in premium and commission rates allowed by regulators on the credit insurance, repair service agreements or product replacement agreements we sell as allowed by the laws and regulations in the states in which we operate could affect our revenues. We derive a significant portion of our revenues and operating income from the sale of various third-party insurance products to our customers. These products include credit insurance, repair service agreements and product replacement agreements. If the commission we retain from sales of those products declines, our operating results would suffer. Changes in trade regulations, currency fluctuations and other factors beyond our control could affect our business. A significant portion of our inventory is manufactured and/or assembled overseas and in Mexico. Changes in trade regulations, currency fluctuations or other factors beyond our control may increase the cost of items we purchase or create shortages of these items, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Conversely, significant reductions in the cost of these items in U.S. dollars may cause a significant reduction in the retail prices of those products, resulting in a material adverse effect on our sales, margins or competitive position. In addition, commissions earned on our credit insurance, repair service agreement or product replacement agreement products could be adversely affected by changes in statutory premium rates, commission rates, adverse claims experience and other factors. 31 Table of Contents We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights, which could impair our name and reputation. We believe that our success and ability to compete depends in part on consumer identification of the name “Conn’s.” We have registered the trademarks “Conn’s” and our logo. We intend to protect vigorously our trademark against infringement or misappropriation by others. A third party, however, could attempt to misappropriate our intellectual property in the future. The enforcement of our proprietary rights through litigation could result in substantial costs to us that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Failure to protect the security of our customer’s information could expose us to litigation, judgments for damages and undermine the trust placed with us by our customers. We capture, transmit, handle and store sensitive information, which involves certain inherent security risks. Such risks include, among other things, the interception of customer data and information by persons outside us or by our own employees. While we believe we have taken appropriate steps to protect confidential information, there can be no assurance that we can prevent the compromise of our customers’ data or other confidential information. If such a breach should occur it could have a severe negative impact on our business and results of operations. Any changes in the tax laws of the states in which we operate could affect our state tax liabilities. Additionally, beginning operations in new states could also affect our state tax liabilities. As we experienced in fiscal year 2008 with the change in the Texas tax law, legislation could be introduced at any time that changes our state tax liabilities in a way that has an adverse impact on our results of operations. The Texas margin tax, which is based on gross profit rather than earnings, increased our effective rate from approximately 35.1%, before its introduction, to 52.4% in fiscal year 2010 and to tax expense equal to 711.5% of our pre-tax income in fiscal year 2011. Our recent commencement of operations in Oklahoma and the potential to enter new states in the future could adversely affect our results of operations, dependent upon the tax laws in place in those states. Significant volatility in oil and gasoline prices could affect our customers’ determination to drive to our stores, and cause us to raise our delivery charges. Significant volatility in oil and gasoline prices could adversely affect our customers’ shopping decisions and patterns. We rely heavily on our internal distribution system and our next day delivery policy to satisfy our customers’ needs and desires, and increases in oil and gasoline prices could result in increased distribution charges. Such increases may not significantly affect our competitors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 32 Table of Contents 