D. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATING TO OUR LIQUIDITY AND FINANCIAL CONDITION We are substantially leveraged, which could impair our ability to gain access to necessary additional funding. At April 18, 2006, we had approximately $85 million of consolidated debt outstanding comprised of the Credit Facility, the CTR Loan and the Convertible Debentures. In accordance with US GAAP, the convertible redeemable secured debentures on the balance sheet are reflected at their accreted amount, not their face value amount. Our operations are by their nature capital-intensive. We will therefore require continuing access to financing to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures and other cash requirements, as well as additional development and acquisition opportunities and the retirement of maturing debt. If we are unable to obtain such additional financing or refinance our existing debt, we may be unable to repay our existing debt or meet our capital needs. If we were unable to meet our capital needs or repay our existing debt using our cash and cash flow from operations, we could be forced to sell other assets needed for our business. A substantial portion of cash flow from operations would need to be dedicated to repayment of debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts, potential acquisition opportunities and other general corporate purposes. This could reduce our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business, or leave us unable to make strategic acquisitions, introduce new products or exploit new business opportunities, and may cause us to seek protection from our creditors under applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other creditor protection legislation. The Credit Facility imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us. The Credit Facility contains provisions that limit our ability and, in some cases, the ability of our Restricted Subsidiaries, to: • pay dividends or make other restricted payments or investments; • incur additional indebtedness and issue preferred stock; • create liens on assets; and • merge, consolidate, or sell all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, the Credit Facility contains restrictive covenants that will require us to maintain financial ratios. Our ability to comply with many of these restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control. We may not achieve operating results that will permit us to meet these restrictive covenants or may need to take business actions prohibited by these covenants. If we breach these covenants our lenders could require immediate payment of amounts due under the Credit Agreement and foreclose upon and sell any assets securing the indebtedness. Our Common Shares may be deemed to be penny stock under the penny stock rules, Broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. With our delisting from the Nasdaq National Market in December 2005, our Common Shares are subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: • make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; • receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; 5 Table of Contents • provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents that identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and • obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. Under these circumstances, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. We will be unable to meet our debt service obligations unless we meet our operating revenue goals as proposed in our business plan. Our ability to pay interest and principal or to refinance our indebtedness, including the Credit Facility and the CTR Notes, will depend upon our future performance. Our future performance is subject to the success of our business plan, including our ability to successfully integrate our operations, general economic conditions and financial, competitive, regulatory, labour and other factors, many of which may be unforeseen or beyond our control. If we do not achieve the operating synergies and cost savings that we expect from our business plan, we may not be able to service our debt. The implementation of our business plan may result in operating synergies and cost savings yielding annualized savings, as compared with our past operating results. Investors should consider, however, that we may be unable to achieve the level of benefits that we expect to realize or that these benefits may not be realized within the time frames we currently expect. Realization of these benefits is critical to our ability to generate cash flow and service our debt. The realization of these benefits depends upon the full implementation of our business plan, which may be revised prior to its full implementation. There are many factors which may affect our ability to implement our business plan and achieve operating synergies and cost savings and many of these factors are beyond our control. We have a history of net losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability, which would impair our share price and liquidity. We have incurred a loss from operations in our last three fiscal years. As of December 31, 2005, our accumulated deficit was approximately $294 million. Failure to return to profitability in 2006 could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and the price of our Common Shares. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitability will depend on, among other things, the ability to secure new business, the ability to develop new products and features on a timely basis, the market acceptance of our products and the ability to reduce product and other costs sufficiently. Our share price has been volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile and could decline substantially. The price of our Common Shares has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. For example, in the last 24 months, our Common Shares traded on the TSX have closed at a high of $7.64 and at a low of $0.13. Some of the factors that could cause our stock price to fluctuate significantly in the future include: • a failure to secure new business; • the possibility that we will not be able to obtain additional financing as and when needed; • risk that we would be unable to meet our debt repayment obligations; • the delay of expected customer orders; • the introduction of new products or changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors; • an acquisition or loss of significant customers, distributors and suppliers; • changes in earnings estimates by analysts; • changes in third-party reimbursement practices; and • fluctuations in the economy generally and general market conditions. In addition, stock markets in general, and the market for shares of telecommunications companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years that may be unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our Common Shares to decline. The market 6 Table of Contents price of Common Shares could decline below the current price and may fluctuate significantly in the future. These fluctuations may or may not be related to our performance or prospects. In the past, shareholders have often instituted securities class action litigation after periods of volatility in the market price of a corporation’s securities. If a shareholder files a securities class action suit, we could incur substantial legal fees and our management’s attention and resources could be diverted from operating the business of the Corporation in order to respond to the litigation. Our operating results and liquidity may be adversely affected if we do not successfully resolve pending commercial disputes. In December 2001, in connection with a Haiti project dispute, we filed a statement of claim in New York for US$4.86 million against MCI International and Telecommunications d’Haiti, S.A.M., or Teleco de Haiti. The claim was filed pursuant to a clause mandating three-party arbitration before the International Court of Arbitration in respect of funds, which ceased flowing to SR Telecom under a Tripartite Agreement between Teleco de Haiti, MCI International and SR Telecom. The agreement provided for the financing of a contract between SR Telecom and Teleco de Haiti pursuant to which SR Telecom was to supply and install certain telecommunications equipment to Teleco de Haiti for approximately US$12,880,000. At this point, MCI International and SR Telecom have both signed the settlement agreement, Teleco de Haiti has not . If Teleco de Haiti does not sign the settlement agreement and we are not able to recover a substantial amount from MCI International, our results of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected. For more information, refer to note 5 of the “Notes to consolidated financial statements” included herein. A dispute with Future Communications Company (“FCC”) relates to the alleged improper drawdown by SR Telecom USA, Inc. of a letter of credit, opened by FCC, with the Bank of Kuwait and the Middle East, and the alleged refusal by SR Telecom USA, Inc. (then Netro Corporation) to accept return of inventory provided to FCC. The Kuwaiti Appeal’s Court rejected an appeal filed on March 2, 2005 and we appealed that ruling to the highest of the Kuwaiti Courts on July 4, 2005, which appeal has not yet been heard. The amount in dispute is US$1,013,000. Five institutional investors and affiliated entities own over 80% of our commons shares and will be able to exert significance influence over us. As described in Item 7A of this annual report, five institutional investors and their respective affiliated entities beneficially own, in the aggregate, over 80% of our common shares. As a result of such ownership concentration, these investors will have significant influence over any matter that requires stockholder approval and generally may have influence over our board of directors and management. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS Our continuation as a going concern is dependent on many factors and there can be no assurance that we will remain so. Our continuation as a going concern is dependent upon, among other things, the continuing support of our lenders, our attaining a satisfactory sales level, the support of our customers, continued sales to our customers, a return to profitable operations and the ability to generate sufficient cash from operations. Many of these matters are dependent on a number of items outside of our control and there is uncertainty about our ability to successfully execute on such matters. Failure to successfully conclude any of these matters could result in our inability to continue in operation for the foreseeable future and inability to realize our assets and discharge our liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. Such failure could have a material adverse effect on us and could result ultimately in our becoming bankrupt or insolvent. We may not be able to maintain our operations if the sources of funding on which we are relying become unavailable. Our ability to meet our near-term funding requirements is dependent on a number of factors, including, among other things, the revenue generated by the sales of our products and our existing cash balances. Our clients often need to invest significant capital into our projects. The capital market conditions for telecommunications companies remain challenging. Because our sales cycles are long and unpredictable, our revenues may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and our cash balances may be impacted negatively. Such failures may result in our inability to maintain our operations. We are in the early stages of attempting to implement our newly adopted strategic plan, the viability of which is untested and uncertain. We are in the early stages of implementing our newly adopted strategic plan, the viability of which is both untested and uncertain. We may fail to successfully implement our new strategic plan or any of its key elements may prove to be an 7 Table of Contents inadequate or insufficient response or solution by us to our current financial and operating condition and/or to industry conditions. If any of the foregoing events or any combination thereof occurs, there may be a significant adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, ability to continue operating as a “going concern”, we may no longer be able to comply with the covenants in the various debt and credit agreements and other instruments to which we are a party and our ability to access to additional sources of capital as well as trade and supplier credit and the price of our Common Shares and our other outstanding securities may be adversely affected. The new strategic plan is described in the “History and Development of the Company” section of this Annual Report. We have recently experienced a number of significant changes in our senior management, our operating and administrative personnel as well as our board of directors. We have recently experienced a number of significant changes in our senior management, our operating and administrative personnel as well as our board of directors. We currently have an interim CEO whose contract has been extended to December 31, 2006 and the contract for our interim CFO will terminate on May 13, 2006. Consequently, it may take more time and resources for us to implement our new strategic plan than it would otherwise require if we had not experienced such changes. These delays and the additional resources we may have to expend could in and of themselves make it more difficult for us to implement our strategic plan. In addition, if one or more members of our senior management team terminates his or her employment, our ability to realize our strategic plan may be impacted, which could harm our business and results of operations. One of the key elements in our newly adopted strategic plan is the introduction of WiMAX products. Either or both of fixed and/or mobile WiMAX may prove not to be commercially viable or less commercially viable than is currently anticipated and our WiMAX products may prove to be less commercially viable or competitive than those being or that will be developed by other companies. We see the development and commercialization of both fixed and mobile WiMAX as key elements of our new strategic plan and of our future success and profitability. In addition, if either or both of fixed and/or mobile WiMAX prove not to be commercially viable or less commercially viable than is currently anticipated or compared to alternative solutions, or if our WiMAX products are less commercially viable or competitive than those developed by other companies, we may experience significant adverse effects on our liquidity, financial condition and ability to continue operating as a “going concern”. We may no longer be able to comply with the covenants in the various debt and credit agreements and other instruments to which we are a party and our ability to have access to additional sources of capital as well as trade and supplier credit and the price of our Common Shares and our other outstanding securities may be adversely affected. We have a long sales cycle, which could cause our results of operations and stock price to fluctuate. Our sales cycles are long and unpredictable. As a result, our revenues may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and we may be unable to adjust our expenses accordingly. This would cause our operating results and stock price to fluctuate. OEMs and service providers typically perform numerous tests and extensively evaluate products before incorporating them into networks. Some additional factors that are likely to affect the length of our sales cycle include: • availability of radio frequency; • currency and capital markets crises; • availability of financing to our customers; • budget allocation by our customers; • political and regulatory issues; • scope of a given project; • complexity of a given network; and • deployment and planning of network infrastructure. In addition, we expect that the delays which are inherent in our sales cycle could raise additional risks of service providers, deciding to cancel or change their product plans. Our business would be adversely affected if a significant customer reduces or delays orders during our sales cycle or chooses not to deploy networks incorporating our products. Our customer contracts are often frame contracts that set the key terms of agreement but do not bind our customers to purchase our products within a fixed period of time. Many of our significant product deployments are based on frame contracts that set the key terms of agreement and only bind our customers when they deliver a purchase order in accordance with the terms of the frame contract. Many of our customers only execute limited purchase orders for a few systems at one time even though the frame contract may provide for a large-scale 8 Table of Contents deployment of our systems. These contracts and purchase orders do not ensure that our customers will purchase any additional products beyond those specifically listed in the order. Moreover, since these purchase orders represent the early portion of longer-term customer programs, we may expend significant financial, personnel and operational resources to fulfill these orders. If our customers fail to purchase additional products to fulfill their programs as we hope, we may be unable to recover the costs we incur and our business could suffer. In addition, our general frame contracts are generally non-exclusive and contain provisions allowing our customers to terminate the agreement without significant penalties. We are subject to the risks of doing business in developing countries. We market and sell our telecommunications products and services to customers around the world, with a focus on developing countries. Accordingly, we are subject to all the risks of doing business with customers in such countries, including: • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • difficulties in enforcing contracts; • difficulties in protecting intellectual property rights; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • legal uncertainty regarding liability, tax, tariffs and other trade barriers; • foreign exchange controls and other currency risks; • inflation; • government appropriations or subsidies that our customers are beneficiaries or recipients of may be decreased or delayed; • challenges to credit and collections; • expropriation; and • government instability, war, riots, insurrections and other political events. Our exposure to developing countries was approximately 79% in 2005, as compared to 76% in 2004 and 82% in 2003. Although we have political risk insurance, force majeure clauses and currency strategies covering some of the events listed above, insurance proceeds and other measures would likely not cover all losses and we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage in the future on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. From time to time, we have made sales to Sudan, a country currently subject to embargoes and trade restrictions under U.S. law. Our contact with and transaction of business in Sudan may have a material adverse effect on the valuation of our stock. Further, certain U.S. states have recently enacted legislation regarding investments by pension funds and other retirement systems in companies that have business activities or contacts with countries that have been identified as terrorist-sponsoring states and similar legislation may be pending in other states. As a result, pension funds and other retirement systems may be subject to reporting requirements with respect to investments in companies such as ours or may be subject to limits or prohibitions with respect to those investments that may have a material adverse effect on the price of our shares. We may not be able to compete effectively with other leading providers of equipment and systems in the wireless communications industry, many of whom have greater financial resources than we do, as a result of which our revenues and results of operations may be impaired. We face competition in the following markets: Enterprise Access. In the enterprise access market, our point-to-multipoint fixed wireless solutions compete with wire-based solutions, such as fiber optic cable and leased T1 and E1 lines and wireless solutions, such as point-to-point radios. We compete against large OEMs, such as Marconi and Hughes as well as with smaller wireless-only companies, such as Alvarion and AirSpan. Residential and Small Business Access. In the residential and small business access market, point-to-multipoint fixed wireless solutions compete with wire-based solutions, such as DSL and cable modems, and against established wireless vendors, such as Motorola, Alvarion, and AirSpan, as well as with numerous start-up companies that are developing products for the industry. Mobile Infrastructure. In the mobile broadband access market, WiMAX technologies will compete with cellular and WiFi technologies. In addition, many new entrants are targeting WiMAX technologies for mobile access, including large OEMs, such as Alcatel, Motorola, and Siemens as well as smaller wireless companies such as Alvarion, NextNet, Navini, and new startups. 9 Table of Contents Competition is likely to persist and intensify in the future. Many of our competitors will be substantially larger and have significantly greater financial, sales, marketing, technical, manufacturing and other resources and more extensive distribution channels than we do. These competitors may be able to respond more rapidly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and financing of their products than we would. Our competitors may also attempt to influence the adoption of standards that are not compatible with our current architecture. This may require us to incur additional development and integration costs and may delay our sales efforts. Some of our competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships to increase their ability to gain customer market share rapidly. These competitors may enter our existing or future markets with solutions that may be less expensive, provide higher performance or additional features or be introduced earlier than our solutions. If any competing technology is more reliable, faster, less expensive or has other advantages over our technology, then the demand for our products and services would decrease, which would seriously harm our business. To be competitive, we must invest significant resources in research and development, sales and marketing and customer support. We may not have sufficient resources to make these investments or be able to make the technological advances necessary to be competitive. As a result, we may not be able to compete effectively against our competitors. If we do not meet product introduction deadlines, or our products do not contain key enhancements, we may not be competitive and revenues and results of operations may be impaired. Should we prove unable to develop new products or product features on a timely basis, or if our new products or product features fail to achieve market acceptance, our revenues and revenue growth may be adversely affected. In the past, we have experienced design and manufacturing difficulties that delayed the development, introduction or marketing of new products and enhancements, which caused us to incur unexpected expenses. Furthermore, in order to compete in additional markets, we will have to develop different versions of our existing products that operate at different frequencies and comply with diverse, new or varying governmental regulations in each market, which could also delay the introduction of new products. Acquisitions of companies or technologies may result in disruptions to our business. As part of our business strategy, we may acquire assets and businesses principally relating or complementary to our current operations. Any other acquisitions or mergers by us will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of companies. These risks include, among other things: • exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies; • higher than anticipated acquisition costs and expenses; • effects of costs and expenses of acquiring and integrating new businesses on our operating results and financial condition; • the difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target companies, especially where the target corporation is in a geographically distant location; • disruption of our ongoing business; • diversion of management’s time and attention; • failure of our financial and strategic position from the unsuccessful incorporation of acquired technology; • the inability to implement uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • loss of key employees and customers as a result of changes in management; • the incurrence of amortization expenses; and • possible dilution to our shareholders. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any acquisitions. Furthermore, current shareholdings will be diluted if equity securities are issued in connection with any acquisition. If acquisitions are made for cash consideration, we may be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Acquisition financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, and our ability to make acquisitions will be limited by our current debt obligations. Our products could become obsolete as a result of rapid technological change, limiting our ability to generate continuing revenues and earnings. The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid and substantial technological change. We may not be able to keep pace with technological developments or developments by other companies that could render our products or technologies non-competitive. Other companies have developed, and will continue to develop, technologies that could be the basis for competitive products. Some of these technologies and products could be more effective and less costly than our products or 10 Table of Contents technologies, thereby eroding our market share. We continually evaluate the competitiveness and economics of our product lines and product offerings, with a view to confirming that additional investments and resources allocated thereto are justified by commercial opportunities. Based on such evaluations, from time to time we may cease offering certain products or services. We may encounter continued competitive pressures to lower selling prices. If we cannot successfully reduce our product costs, our results of operations and earnings will suffer. The market for wireless access telecommunications equipment is rapidly evolving and highly competitive. Increased competition may result in price reductions, shorter product life cycles, longer sales cycles and loss of market share, any of which could adversely affect our business. If we cannot reduce the cost of our products enough to keep pace with the required price reductions, then our product sales or our gross margins, and consequently our results of operations, will suffer. Our ability to implement cost reductions will also be dependent on factors outside of our control. For example, our cost for contract manufacturing may be largely impacted by the level and volume of our orders which will be driven by our customers’ demand. Also, our contract manufacturers must correctly implement cost reductions that we design into the products. Our cost projections are based upon assumptions regarding the ability of our contract manufacturers to achieve volume-related cost reductions. Some of our design cost reductions will depend on the emergence of low-cost components which are likely to be developed by third parties. We will not control these third parties. To the extent these third parties are unable or unwilling to cooperate with us in reducing product cost, or their efforts in this regard are not timely, our product costs will exceed our internal projections. In addition, the price for wireless telecommunications equipment is driven by the prevailing price for other connection technologies, such as the cost of obtaining digital subscriber line (DSL) service or leasing a T1 connection from the traditional telecommunications service provider in a given locale. The price of these connections has declined significantly in many countries in the recent past, and could decline significantly in the future. If this trend continues, service providers might be more likely to use these kinds of connections than to introduce new technology such as our products, which would adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Because we must sell our products in many countries that have different regulatory schemes, if we cannot develop products that work with different standards, our opportunities for growth will be limited. We must sell our products in many different countries in order to grow. Many countries require communications equipment used in their country to comply with unique regulations, including safety regulations, radio frequency allocation schemes and standards. If we are unable to develop products that work with different standards, we will be unable to sell our products. If compliance proves to be more expensive or time consuming than we anticipate, our business would be adversely affected. Some countries have not completed their radio frequency allocation process and therefore the standards with which we will be forced to comply are unknown. Furthermore, standards and regulatory requirements are subject to change. If we fail to anticipate or comply with these new standards, our revenues and results of operations will be adversely affected. Because some of our key components are from sole source suppliers or require long lead times, our business will be subject to unexpected interruptions, which could cause our operating results to suffer. Some of the key components to be used in our products are complex to manufacture and have long lead times. They are supplied by sole source vendors for which alternative sources are not currently available. In the event of a reduction or interruption of supply, or a degradation in quality, as many as six months could be required before we would begin receiving adequate supplies from alternative suppliers, if any. As a result, product shipments could be delayed and our revenues and results of operations would suffer. If we receive a smaller allocation of component parts than is necessary to manufacture products in quantities sufficient to meet customer demand, customers could choose to purchase competing products and we could lose market share. Our products may contain defects that could harm our reputation, be costly to correct, expose us to litigation and harm our operating results and profits. We and our customers have from time to time discovered defects in our products and additional defects may be found in the future. If defects are discovered, we may not be able to correct them in a timely manner or at all. Defects and failures in our products could result in a loss of, or a delay in, market acceptance of our products. In addition, defects in our products could cause adverse publicity, damage our reputation and impair our ability to acquire new customers. In addition, we may need to make significant expenditures to eliminate defects from our products. Moreover, because our products are used in critical telecommunications networks, we may be subject to significant liability claims if our products do not work properly. The provisions in our agreements with customers that are intended to limit our 11 Table of Contents exposure to liability claims may not preclude all potential claims. In addition, our insurance policies may not adequately limit our exposure with respect to such claims. We warrant to our current customers that our products will operate in accordance with product specifications. If these or our future products fail to conform to such specifications, our customers could require us to remedy the failure or could assert claims for damages. Liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. Any such claims, whether or not successful, would be costly and time-consuming to defend and could seriously damage our reputation and business. We may have to acquire significant inventory to support future sales and for long-term product support. We have acquired and may continue to acquire significant inventory in order to support contractual obligations in relation to discontinued product lines and discontinued components in existing products. If sales of such products or components do not materialize, we could end up with inventory levels that are significantly in excess of our needs, which could diminish our working capital or cause significant losses. We have exposure to currency risk. Significant fluctuations in exchange rates could reduce revenues, earnings, investments and liquidity. Our reporting currency is the Canadian dollar, while the majority of our sales contracts are in other currencies. Currency fluctuations will affect the reported values of revenues and eventual collections. While we sometimes engage in hedging activities to protect us from currency fluctuations, there can be no assurance that these practices will be adequate to eliminate potential negative effects. The value of our investment in our foreign subsidiaries is partially a function of the currency exchange rate between the Canadian dollar and the applicable local currency. The devaluation of a foreign subsidiary’s local currency would result in a reduction in our carrying value of our investment in such foreign subsidiary. As a result, we may experience economic losses with respect to our investments in foreign subsidiaries and fluctuations in our results of operations solely as a result of currency exchange rate fluctuations. Many of the currencies of developing countries have experienced steady, and at times significant, devaluations relative to the Canadian dollar, and significant exchange rate fluctuations have occurred in the past and may again occur in the future, any of which could impair the recoverability of our long-term assets. In many circumstances, revenues generated by foreign subsidiaries will generally be paid to the foreign subsidiaries in the local currency. By contrast, some significant liabilities of the foreign subsidiaries, such as liabilities for the financing of telecommunications equipment, may be payable in U.S. dollars or in currencies other than the local currency. As a result, any devaluation in the local currency relative to the currencies in which such liabilities are payable could increase the Canadian dollar amounts payable and negatively impact liquidity and earnings. Moreover, we will record revenues and expenses of our foreign subsidiaries in their home currencies and translate these amounts into Canadian dollars. As a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates in markets where we derive significant revenues or have significant operations may adversely affect our revenues, expenses and results of operations, as well as the value of our assets and liabilities. Our ability to operate could be hindered by the proprietary rights of others and the degree to which we are able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. A number of telecommunications companies have developed technologies, filed patent applications or received patents on various technologies that may be related to our business. Some of these technologies, applications or patents may conflict with our technologies or intellectual property rights. Such conflicts could limit the scope of the patents, if any, that we may be able to obtain or result in the denial of our patent applications altogether. If patents that cover our activities are issued to other persons or companies, we could be sued for patent infringement. In the event that other parties’ patents cover any portion of our activities, we may be forced to develop alternatives or negotiate a license for such technology. We may not be successful in either developing alternative technologies or acquiring licenses upon reasonable terms, if at all. Any such license could require the expenditure of substantial time and other resources and could harm our business and decrease our earnings. If we do not obtain such licenses, we could encounter delays in the introduction of our products or could find that the development, manufacture or sale of products requiring such licenses is prohibited. Despite efforts to protect proprietary rights, existing copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws afford limited protection. Third parties may attempt to copy or reverse engineer aspects of our products or proprietary information. Accordingly, we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights which would adversely affect our operations and revenues. 12 Table of Contents We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. Our future success and competitive position depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain certain proprietary intellectual property rights used in our principal products. Any such success may be achieved in part by prosecuting claims against others who we believe are infringing our rights and by defending claims of intellectual property infringement brought by our competitors and others. Our involvement in intellectual property litigation could result in significant expense, could adversely affect sales of the challenged product or intellectual property and may divert the efforts and focus of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is resolved in our favour. In addition, in our sales agreements, we have agreed to indemnify our customers for any expenses or liabilities resulting from claimed infringements of patents, trademarks or copyrights of third parties, which obligations will continue to be binding on us and could expose us to additional costs. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively because they have substantially greater resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could affect our ability to continue our operations. In the event of an adverse outcome in any such litigation, we may, among other things, be required to: • pay substantial damages; • cease the development, manufacture, use or sale of product candidates or products that infringe upon the intellectual property of others; • expend significant resources to design around a patent or to develop or acquire non-infringing intellectual property; • discontinue processes incorporating infringing technology; or • obtain licenses to the infringing intellectual property, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Should third parties file patent applications, or be issued patents claiming technology also claimed by us in pending applications, we may be required to participate in interference proceedings with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or other proceedings outside Canada or the United States, including oppositions, to determine priority of invention or patentability, which could result in substantial cost to us even if the eventual outcome were in our favour. RISKS FOR U.S. HOLDERS We may be classified as a “controlled foreign corporation” for United States federal income tax purposes, which could result in certain adverse tax consequences to certain U.S. holders. If more than 50% of the voting power of all classes of shares or the total value of the shares of the Corporation is owned, actually or constructively, by citizens or residents of the United States, United States domestic partnerships and corporations, or estates or trusts other than foreign estates or trusts, each of which owns 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of shares of the Corporation (each, a “10% United States shareholder”), the Corporation could be treated as a “controlled foreign corporation” (“CFC”) for United States federal income tax purposes. This classification has many complex results, one of which is that certain U.S. holders that own Common Shares would be required to include certain income of the Corporation in their gross income for United States federal income tax purposes, even if they do not receive a corresponding distribution from the Corporation. In addition, gain from the sale or exchange of Common Shares by a U.S. holder that is or was a 10% United States shareholder at any time during the five-year period ending with the sale or exchange would be treated as ordinary income to the extent of the earnings and profits of the Corporation attributable to the Common Shares sold or exchanged. Special foreign tax credit rules would also apply. U.S. holders are urged to consult their own tax advisors, as to whether or not the Corporation may be classified as a CFC and the consequences to them of such classification. Foreign bankruptcy and insolvency laws may differ from their U.S. counterparts. We are incorporated under the laws of Canada. In addition, our subsidiaries are incorporated under the laws of various countries and conduct operations in countries around the world. Consequently, the bankruptcy laws of Canada or one or more countries in which our subsidiaries operate could apply. Under bankruptcy laws in the United States, courts typically have jurisdiction over a debtor’s property, wherever located, including property situated in other countries. There can be no assurance, however, that courts in Canada or elsewhere would recognize the United States bankruptcy court’s jurisdiction. Accordingly, difficulties may arise in administering a United States bankruptcy case involving a Canadian debtor or a debtor with its principal operating assets outside the United States, and any orders or judgments of a bankruptcy court in the United States may not be enforceable. 13 Table of Contents U.S. investors in our securities may have difficulties enforcing civil liabilities. We are governed by the laws of Canada. Moreover, a number of our directors and officers are residents of Canada or other jurisdictions outside of the United States and a substantial portion of our assets and their assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for holders of our securities to effect service of process upon us or such persons within the United States or to enforce against us or them in the United States, judgments of courts of the United States predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws or other laws of the United States. In addition, there is doubt as to the enforceability in Canada of liabilities predicated solely upon U.S. federal or state securities law against us and our directors, controlling persons and officers who are not residents of the United States, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts. 