risk factors discussed in this document. Consequently, all of the forward-looking statements made in this document are qualified by these cautionary statements, and there can be no assurance that the actual results or developments anticipated by management will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that they will have the expected consequences to or effects on the Company and its subsidiaries or their businesses or operations. The reader is cautioned not to rely on these forward-looking statements. The Company disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements even if new information becomes available. 4 In the forward-looking statements contained in this document, the Company made a number of assumptions about the market, operations, finances and transactions. Certain factors that could cause results or events to differ materially from our current expectations include, among others, our ability to implement our strategies and plans, the intensity of competitive activity and the ability to deliver our products on time while significantly reducing costs, the proper execution of our contract manufacturing arrangements, timely development of our WiMAX product offerings, the attainment of cost reduction targets, a sustained demand for symmetryone in 2007, the impact of competition on pricing and market share, and the ability to fund the required investment in working capital to sustain revenue growth. For a more complete discussion of the assumptions and risks underlying our forward-looking statements, please refer to the section entitled “Risk factors” elsewhere in this document and “Assumptions, risks and uncertainties” in the Company’s management’s discussion and analysis for the year ended December 31, 2006. 5 PART I ITEM 1. IDENTITY OF DIRECTORS, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND ADVISERS Not applicable. ITEM 2. OFFER STATISTICS AND EXPECTED TIMETABLE Not applicable. ITEM 3. KEY INFORMATION A. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA SR Telecom Selected Consolidated Financial Data The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, the section entitled “Risk Factors”, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes. The selected consolidated financial information as of December 31, 2006 and 2005; December 1, 2005; December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002; and for the year ended December 31, 2006; the month ended December 31, 2005; the eleven month period ended November 30, 2005; and the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002 was derived from our audited consolidated financial statements. These consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with Canadian GAAP and are presented in Canadian dollars. The principles of Canadian GAAP used in the preparation of our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 defer in certain material respects with US GAAP, as disclosed in note 31 to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003 included in this Form 20-F. (in thousands, except per share data) Year Ended December 31, One month ended December 31, Eleven months ended November 30, Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2005 2004 2003 2002 $ $ $ $ $ $ Consolidated Statements of Operations Data (Canadian GAAP): Revenue 87,455 7,372 69,012 99,074 99,970 145,949 Restructuring, asset impairment and other charges 31,515 - 17,200 7,701 3,541 4,548 Operating loss from continuing operations (101,362 ) (2,532 ) (64,308 ) (58,036 ) (44,109 ) (24,270 ) Loss from continuing operations (116,415 ) (5,160 ) (77,007 ) (76,942 ) (49,001 ) (42,803 ) Net loss (115,627 ) (9,381 ) (81,765 ) (86,134 ) (44,755 ) (20,885 ) Basic and diluted loss per share from continuing operations (0.17 ) (0.08 ) (4.34 ) (4.62 ) (6.80 ) (7.82 ) Basic and diluted net loss per share (0.17 ) (0.14 ) (4.61 ) (5.17 ) (6.21 ) (3.82 ) Consolidated Statements of Operations Data (US GAAP): Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 $ $ $ $ $ Net loss (170,976 ) (98,550 ) (84,786 ) (43,700 ) (11,125 ) Basic and diluted net loss per share (0.25 ) (4.52 ) (5.09 ) (6.06 ) (2.03 ) 6 (in thousands, except per share data) As at December 31, As at December 1, As at December 31, 2006 2005 2005 2004 2003 2002 $ $ $ $ $ $ Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Total Assets 150,553 187,551 195,967 227,624 289,775 320,805 Long-term Debt(1) 100,554 129,498 128,647 117,370 131,437 140,300 Capital Stock 352,174 230,086 229,927 219,653 180,866 147,985 Shareholders’ Equity 10,933 21,348 30,636 52,640 91,740 102,326 Shareholders’ Equity (US GAAP) (24,692 ) 20,616 33,207 70,687 80,218 Other Data: Number of Shares Issued: Common shares 733,393 65,667 64,933 17,610 10,467 5,523 Dividends per common share - - - - - - (1) Long-term debt includes the current portion of long-term debt, capital leases, lease liability and other long-term liabilities. Exchange Rate Data Please refer to the “Exchange Rate Information” section of this document. B. CAPITALIZATION AND INDEBTEDNESS Not applicable. C. REASONS FOR THE OFFER AND USE OF PROCEEDS Not applicable. D. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATING TO OUR LIQUIDITY AND FINANCIAL CONDITION We are substantially leveraged, which could impair our ability to gain access to necessary additional funding and may require us to file for insolvency protection. At July 3, 2007, we had approximately $108 million of consolidated debt outstanding comprised principally of the credit facilities which include the convertible term loans and other long-term debt. In accordance with Canadian GAAP, the convertible term loan is accounted for on the basis of its substance and is presented in its component parts of debt and equity. Our operations are by their nature capital-intensive; we will therefore require continuing access to financing to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures, bonding and letter of credit facilities and other cash requirements, as well as additional development and acquisition opportunities and the retirement of maturing debt, as existing financing solutions, including the $45.0 million term loan commitment closed July 3, 2007, may prove to be insufficient to meet such needs. If we are unable to obtain such additional financing (and there is no guarantee that such additional financing will be available to us in the future from either exisiting investors or third parties) or refinance our existing debt, we may be unable to repay our existing debt or meet our capital needs. If we were unable to meet our capital needs or repay our existing debt using our cash and cash flow from operations, we could be forced to sell other assets needed for our business. A substantial portion of cash flow from operations would need to be dedicated to repayment of debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts, potential acquisition opportunities and other general corporate purposes. This could reduce our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, or leave us unable to make strategic acquisitions, introduce new products or exploit new business opportunities, and may cause us to seek protection from our creditors under applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other creditor protection legislation or pursue other restructuring alternatives. 7 The credit facilities (which include the convertible term loan agreement) impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. The agreement that governs our credit facility and convertible term loan, which we refer to as the credit facility and convertible term loan agreement, contains provisions that limit our ability and, in some cases, the ability of our restricted subsidiaries, to: - pay dividends or make other restricted payments or investments; - incur additional indebtedness and issue preferred stock; - create liens on assets; and - merge, consolidate, or sell all or substantially all of our assets. Our ability to comply with many of these restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control. We may not achieve operating results that will permit us to meet these restrictive covenants or may need to take business actions prohibited by these covenants. If we breach these covenants our lenders could require immediate payment of amounts due under the credit and convertible term loan agreement and foreclose upon and sell any assets securing the indebtedness. Our common shares may be deemed to be penny stock under the penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. Following our delisting from the Nasdaq National Market in December 2005, our common shares are subject to “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: - make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; - receive the purchaser's written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; - provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents that identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser's legal remedies; and - obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a "penny stock" can be completed. 8 Under these circumstances, broker-dealers may find it difficult to complete customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and holders may find it more difficult to sell our securities. We have a history of net losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability, which could impair our share price and liquidity. We have incurred losses from operations in our past fiscal years. As of December 31, 2006, our accumulated deficit, including the pre-fresh start accounting deficit, was approximately $353.8 million, and we have failed to execute on our prior business plans developed by prior management. Failure to return to profitability in 2007 could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and the price of our common shares. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitability will depend on, among other things, our ability to secure new business, develop new products and features on a timely basis, manufacture and deliver our products, reduce product and other costs sufficiently, as well as the market acceptance of our products. Our share price has been and will continue to be volatile and could decline substantially. The price of our common shares has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. For example, in the last 24 months, our common shares have closed at a high of $0.55 and a low of $0.14 on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX). Some of the factors that could cause our stock price to fluctuate significantly in the future include: - a failure to deliver WiMAX products; - a failure to secure new business; - the possibility that we will not be able to obtain additional financing as and when needed; - risk that we would be unable to meet our debt repayment obligations; - the delay of expected customer orders; - the introduction of new products or changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors; - an acquisition or loss of significant customers, distributors, suppliers and contract manufacturers; - changes in earnings estimates by analysts; - changes in third-party reimbursement practices; and - fluctuations in the economy generally and general market conditions. 9 Furthermore, if we are unable to effectively execute our business plan and/or obtain additional financing as and when needed, the Company may be required to seek protection from our creditors under applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other creditor protection legislation. If such a result were to occur, the price of our common shares could decline substantially and ultimately lose all of their value. In addition, stock markets in general, and the market for shares of telecommunications companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years that may be unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our common shares to decline below the current price and may fluctuate significantly in the future. These fluctuations may or may not be related to our performance or prospects. In the past, shareholders have often instituted securities class action litigation after periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities. If a shareholder files a class action suit, we could incur substantial legal fees and our management's attention and resources could be diverted from operating the Company’s business in order to respond to the litigation. If we have a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in our share price. One or more material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting could occur or be identified in the future. In addition, because of inherent limitations, our internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Any evaluation of effectiveness of internal controls projections to future periods are therefore subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with our policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure or difficulty in implementing required new or improved controls, our business and results of operations could be harmed, we may not be able to provide reasonable assurance as to our financial results or meet our reporting obligations, and there could be a material adverse effect on our share price. Our operating results and liquidity may be adversely affected if we do not successfully resolve pending commercial disputes. A dispute with Future Communications Company (“FCC”) relates to the alleged improper drawdown by SR Telecom USA, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary, of a letter of credit, opened by FCC, with the Bank of Kuwait and the Middle East, and the alleged refusal by SR Telecom USA, Inc. to accept return of inventory provided to FCC. The Kuwait Appeal Court rejected the appeal filed on March 2, 2005 and the Company appealed this decision to the highest of the Kuwait Courts on July 4, 2005. On January 7, 2007, the Kuwait Appeal Court handed down its decision which was in favor of FCC for an amount of US $1.0 million plus court fees. As a result of past restructuring efforts, certain employees were terminated and given notices and severances according to local labour laws. Some of these employees are claiming that they did not receive an appropriate amount of severance and/or notice period. If we are unable to successfully defend these claims, our results of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected. In the normal course of business, the Company’s tax returns are subject to examination by various domestic and foreign taxing authorities. Such examinations may result in future tax and interest assessments on the Company. The Company has received notice of assessments by foreign governments for sales taxes and corporate taxes and by Canadian government for research and development tax credits relating to prior years. The Company has reviewed these assessments and determined the likely amounts to be paid. Such amounts have been accrued in their respective classification on the statement of operations including research and development expenses, income tax expense and selling, general and administration expenses. Any additional negative assessments can adversely affect operations and liquidity. Five institutional investors and affiliated entities own over 80% of our commons shares and will be able to exert significance influence on us. As described in Item 7A of this annual report, five institutional investors and their respective affiliated entities beneficially own, in the aggregate, over 80% of our common shares. As a result of such ownership concentration, these investors will have significant influence over any matter that requires stockholder approval and generally may influence our board of directors and management. 10 RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS Our continuation as a going concern is dependent on many factors and there can be no assurance that we will remain so. Our continuation as a going concern is dependent upon, among other things, the continuing support of our customers, lenders and shareholders, attaining a satisfactory sales level, continued sales to our customers, a return to profitable operations, the ability to generate sufficient cash from operations and additional financing. These matters are dependent on a number of items outside of our control; consequently, there is uncertainty about our ability to execute our plans successfully. Failure to successfully conclude any of these matters could result in our inability to continue in operation for the foreseeable future, as well as realize our assets and discharge our liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. Such failure could have a material adverse effect on us and could ultimately result in bankruptcy or insolvency and/or a financial restructuring. We may not be able to maintain our operations if the sources of funding we rely upon become unavailable. Our ability to meet our near-term funding requirements is dependent on a number of factors, including, among other things, the revenue generated by the sales of our products and our existing cash balances. Our customers often need to invest significant capital into our projects and the capital market conditions for telecommunications companies remain challenging. Because our sales cycles are long and unpredictable, our revenues may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and our cash balances may be negatively impacted . Such failures may result in our inability to maintain our operations. We have recently experienced a number of significant changes in our senior management and our operating and administrative personnel. The Company appointed a permanent CEO effective July 10, 2006 and a permanent CFO effective August 15, 2006. Consequently, it may take more time and resources for us to implement our strategic plan than would otherwise be required had we not experienced such changes. These delays and the additional resources we may have to expend could make it more difficult for us to implement our strategic plan. In addition, the decision by one or more members of our senior management team to terminate his or her employment, could have an impact on our ability to carry out our strategic plan, which could harm our business and results of operations. A key element of our business plan is the introduction of WiMAX products; the commercial viability of our products, and the industry as a whole, may prove to be less than currently anticipated or our products may be less competitive than those developed by other companies. We see the development and commercialization of both fixed and mobile WiMAX as key elements of our business plan, future success and profitability. In addition, if either, or both, of fixed or mobile WiMAX prove to be less commercially viable than currently anticipated or if our WiMAX products are less commercially viable or competitive than those developed by other companies, we may experience significant adverse effects on our liquidity, financial condition and ability to continue operating as a going concern. In these circumstances, we may no longer be able to comply with the covenants in our various debt and credit agreements and other instruments. In addition, our ability to have access to additional sources of capital and trade and supplier credit and the price of our common shares and other outstanding securities may be adversely affected. We have a long sales cycle, which could cause our results of operations and stock price to fluctuate. Our sales cycles are long and unpredictable. As a result, our revenues may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and we may be unable to adjust our expenses accordingly. This could cause our operating results and stock price to fluctuate. OEMs and service providers typically perform numerous tests and extensively evaluate products before incorporating them into networks. Some additional factors that are likely to affect the length of our sales cycle include: - availability of radio frequency; - currency and capital markets crises; - availability of financing to our customers; - budget allocation by our customers; - political and regulatory issues; - scope of a given project; - complexity of a given network; and - deployment and planning of network infrastructure. In addition, the delays inherent in our sales cycle could raise additional risks of service providers deciding to cancel or change their product plans. Our business would be adversely affected if a significant customer reduces or delays orders during our sales cycle or chooses not to deploy networks incorporating our products. 12 Our customer contracts are often frame contracts that set the key terms of agreement but do not bind our customers to purchase our products within a fixed period of time. Many of our significant product deployments are based on frame contracts that set the key terms of agreement and bind our customers only when they deliver a purchase order under the terms of the frame contract. Many customers only issue limited purchase orders for a few systems at one time even though the frame contract may provide for a large-scale deployment of our systems. These contracts and purchase orders do not ensure that our customers will purchase any additional products beyond those specifically listed in the order. Moreover, since these purchase orders represent the immediate portion of longer-term customer programs, we may expend significant financial, personnel and operational resources to fulfill these orders. If our customers fail to purchase additional products to fulfill their programs as we hope, we may be unable to recover the costs incurred and our business could suffer. In addition, our frame contracts are generally non-exclusive and contain provisions allowing our customers to terminate the agreement without significant penalties. We are subject to the risks of doing business in developing countries. We market and sell our telecommunications products and services to customers around the world, with a focus on developing countries. Accordingly, we are subject to all the risks of doing business with customers in such countries, including: - trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; - difficulties in enforcing contracts; - difficulties in protecting intellectual property rights; - unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; - legal uncertainty regarding liability, tax, tariffs and other trade barriers; - foreign exchange controls and other currency risks; - inflation; - government appropriations or subsidies that our customers are beneficiaries or recipients of may be decreased or delayed; - challenges to credit and collections; - expropriation; and - government instability, war, riots, insurrections and other political events. Our exposure to developing countries was approximately 83% in 2006 compared to 79% in 2005 and 76% in 2004. We ensure the collection of our revenues through the use of letters of credits and the analysis of the credit worthiness of our customers. However these measures would likely not cover all losses. From time to time, we have made sales to Sudan, a country currently subject to embargoes and trade restrictions under US law. Our business activities in Sudan may have a material adverse effect on the valuation of our stock. In addition, certain US states have recently enacted legislation regarding investments by pension funds and other retirement systems in companies that have business activities or contacts with countries that have been identified as terrorist-sponsoring states; similar legislation may be pending in other states. As a result, pension funds and other retirement systems may be subject to reporting requirements regarding investments in companies such as ours or may be subject to limits or prohibitions for those investments, which may have a material adverse effect on the price of our shares. We may not be able to compete effectively with other leading equipment providers in the wireless communications industry, many of whom have greater financial resources than we have; as a result, our revenues and results of operations may be impaired. We face competition in the following markets: Universal access: In the universal access market, our point-to-multipoint, fixed-wireless solutions compete with wire-based solutions, mobile solutions, and other long-range access solutions. We compete with wire-based product vendors, such as Intracom, and with mobile infrastructure vendors, such as Ericsson, Nokia-Siemens and Huawei. Enterprise access: In the enterprise access market, our wireless solutions compete with wire-based solutions, such as fibre optic cable and leased T1 and E1 lines and wireless solutions, such as point-to-point radios. We compete against large OEMs, such as Alcatel-Lucent and Motorola, and with smaller wireless-only companies, such as Alvarion and AirSpan. 13 Residential and small business access: In the residential and small business access market, our wireless solutions compete with wire-based solutions, such as DSL and cable modems. We also compete with other OFDM-based broadband wireless access vendors, such as Alvarion, and AirSpan. Mobile traffic backhauling: The mobile market requires infrastructure to connect cellular base stations to the core telecommunications network. In this market, our wireless solutions compete with wire-based solutions, such as leased T1 and E1 lines, and wireless solutions, such as point-to-point radios. We compete with large OEMs, such as Alcatel-Lucent, Ericsson, and smaller wireless companies, such as Dragonwave. Private networks: In the private networks market, industrial companies require support for voice and data services as well as support for SCADA. In this market, our principal competition comes from fibre or point-to-point microwave solutions. Most of the technologies we compete with are not intended for mobile backhaul, rural telecommunications or local private networks, whereas our products are specifically designed for these market segments. Competition is likely to persist and intensify in the future. Many of our competitors will be substantially larger and have significantly greater financial, sales, marketing, technical, manufacturing and other resources and more extensive distribution channels than we have. These competitors may be able to respond more rapidly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and financing of their products than we would. Our competitors may also attempt to influence the adoption of standards that are not compatible with our current architecture. This may require us to incur additional development and integration costs and may delay our sales efforts. Some of our competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships to increase their ability to rapidly gain customer market share. These competitors may enter our existing or future markets with solutions that may be less expensive, provide higher performance or additional features or be introduced earlier than our solutions. If any competing technology is more reliable, faster, less expensive or has other advantages over our technology, then the demand for our products and services would decrease, which would seriously harm our business. To be competitive, we must invest significant resources in research and development, sales and marketing and customer support. We may not have sufficient resources to make these investments or be able to make the technological advances necessary to be competitive. As a result, we may not be able to compete effectively against our competitors. If we do not meet product introduction deadlines, or our products do not contain key enhancements, we may not be competitive and revenues and results of operations may be impaired. Our revenues and revenue growth may be adversely affected should we be unable to develop new products or product features on a timely basis, or if our new products or product features fail to achieve market acceptance. In the past, we have experienced design and manufacturing difficulties that delayed the development, introduction or marketing of new products and enhancements, which caused us to incur unexpected expenses. Furthermore, competing in additional markets may, require us to develop versions of our existing products that are capable of operating at different frequencies and complying with diverse, new or varying governmental regulations in each market, which could also delay the introduction of new products. Our products could become obsolete as a result of rapid technological change, limiting our ability to generate continuing revenues and earnings. The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid and substantial technological change. We may not be able to keep pace with technological developments or developments by other companies that could render our products or technologies non-competitive. Other companies have developed, and will continue to develop, technologies that could be the basis for competitive products. Some of these technologies and products could be more effective and less costly than our products or technologies, thereby eroding our market share. We continually evaluate the competitiveness and economics of our product lines and product offerings, with a view to confirming that additional investments and resources allocated thereto are justified by commercial opportunities. Based on such evaluations, from time to time we may cease offering certain products or services. We may encounter continued competitive pressures to lower selling prices. If we cannot successfully reduce our product costs, our results of operations and earnings will suffer. The market for wireless access telecommunications equipment is rapidly evolving and highly competitive. Increased competition may result in price reductions, shorter product life cycles, longer sales cycles and loss of market share, any of which could adversely affect our business. If we cannot reduce the cost of our products enough to keep pace with the required price reductions, then our product sales or our gross margins, and consequently our results of operations, will suffer. 14 Our ability to implement cost reductions will also depend on factors outside of our control. For example, our cost for contract manufacturing may be largely impacted by the level and volume of our orders, which is driven by customers demand. Also, our contract manufacturers must correctly implement cost reductions that we design into the products; our cost projections are based upon assumptions regarding the ability of our contract manufacturers to achieve volume-related cost reductions. Some of our design cost reductions will depend on the emergence of low-cost components that are likely to be developed by third parties. Our product costs will exceed our internal projections to the extent these third parties are unable or unwilling to cooperate in reducing product cost, or their efforts in this regard are not timely. In addition, the price for wireless telecommunications equipment is driven by the prevailing price for other connection technologies, such as the cost of obtaining digital subscriber line (DSL) service or leasing a T1 connection from the traditional telecommunications service provider in a given locale. The price of these connections has declined significantly in many countries in the recent past, and could decline significantly in the future. If this trend continues, service providers might be more likely to use these kinds of connections than to introduce new technology such as our products, which would adversely affect our revenues and earnings. We must develop products that work with different standards because we sell our products in many countries that have different regulatory schemes; if we are unsuccessful, our opportunities for growth will be limited. Many countries require communications equipment used in their country to comply with unique regulations, including safety policies, radio frequency allocation schemes and standards. If we are unable to develop products that work with different standards, or if compliance proves to be more expensive or time consuming than we anticipate, we will be unable to sell our products and our business would be adversely affected. Some countries have not completed their radio frequency allocation process and therefore the standards with which we will be forced to comply are unknown. Furthermore, standards and regulatory requirements are subject to change; if we fail to anticipate or comply with these new standards, our revenues and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our business is subject to unexpected interruptions because some of our key components are from sole source suppliers or require long lead times, which could cause our operating results to suffer. Some of the key components used in our products are complex to manufacture and have long lead times. In addition, they are supplied by sole source vendors and alternative sources are currently not available. In the event of a reduction or interruption of supply, or degradation in quality, up to six months could be required before we begin receiving adequate supplies from alternative suppliers, if any. As a result, product shipments could be delayed and our revenues and results of operations would suffer. If we receive a smaller allocation of component parts than is necessary to manufacture products in quantities sufficient to meet customer demand, customers could choose to purchase competing products and we could lose market share. Our dependence on contract manufacturers for the assembly of our products. On March 27, 2006, we announced the completion of a multi-year agreement to outsource our manufacturing operations in order to increase competitiveness. As a result, we depend on these suppliers to manufacture our products; this reliance exposes us to significant risks, including risks resulting from: - potential lack of manufacturing capacity; - limited control over delivery schedules; - quality assurance and control; - manufacturing production costs; - voluntary or involuntary termination of their relationship with us; - difficulty in, and timeliness of, substituting any of our contract manufacturers; and - their financial strength. If our contract manufacturers’ operations are halted, even temporarily, or if they are unable to operate at full capacity for an extended period of time, we may experience business interruption, increased costs, loss of goodwill and loss of customers. The use of contract manufacturers may result in excess inventory purchases or the inability to deliver on time. Our contract manufacturers rely on our forecasts of future orders to make purchasing and manufacturing decisions. We provide them forecasts on a regular basis; if a forecast is inaccurate, it may lead to either excess inventory that would increase our costs, or a shortage of components that would delay shipment of equipment. In either case, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. 15 Our products may contain defects that could harm our reputation, be costly to correct, expose us to litigation and harm our operating results and profits. We and our customers have, from time to time, discovered defects in our products and additional defects may be found in the future. If defects are discovered, we may not be able to correct them in a timely manner or at all. Defects and failures in our products could result in a loss of, or a delay in, market acceptance of our products. In addition, defects in our products could cause adverse publicity, damage our reputation and impair our ability to acquire new customers. In addition, we may need to make significant expenditures to eliminate defects from our products. Moreover, because our products are used in critical telecommunications networks, we may be subject to significant liability claims if our products do not work properly. The provisions in our agreements with customers that are intended to limit our exposure to liability claims may not preclude all potential claims. In addition, our insurance policies may not adequately limit our exposure relating to such claims. We warrant to our current customers that our products will operate in accordance with product specifications. If these or future products fail to conform to such specifications, our customers could require us to remedy the failure or could assert claims for damages. Liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation, or to pay significant damages. Any such claims, whether or not successful, would be costly and time-consuming to defend and could seriously damage our reputation and business. We may have to acquire significant inventory to maintain future sales and long-term product support. We have acquired and may continue to acquire, significant inventory to support contractual obligations relating to future sales and discontinued components in existing products. If sales of such products or components do not materialize, we could end up with inventory levels that are significantly in excess of our needs, which could diminish our working capital or cause significant losses. We have exposure to currency risk; significant fluctuations in exchange rates could reduce revenues, earnings, investments and liquidity. Our reporting currency is the Canadian dollar, while the majority of our sales contracts are in other currencies. Currency fluctuations will affect the reported values of revenues and eventual collections. While we could engage in hedging activities to protect us from currency fluctuations, there can be no assurance that these practices will be adequate to eliminate potential negative effects. The value of our investment in foreign subsidiaries is partially a function of the currency exchange rate between the Canadian dollar and the applicable local currency. The devaluation of a foreign subsidiary's local currency would result in a reduction in the carrying value of our investment. As a result, we may experience economic losses related to our investments in foreign subsidiaries and fluctuations in our results of operations solely as a result of currency exchange rate fluctuations. Many of the currencies of developing countries have experienced steady, and at times significant, devaluations relative to the Canadian dollar, and significant exchange rate fluctuations have occurred in the past and may occur again, any of which could impair the recoverability of our long-term assets. In many circumstances, revenues generated by foreign subsidiaries will be paid to the foreign subsidiaries in the local currency. By contrast, some significant liabilities of the foreign subsidiaries, such as liabilities for the financing of telecommunications equipment, may be payable in US dollars or in currencies other than the local currency. As a result, any devaluation in the local currency relative to the payable currencies could increase the Canadian dollar amounts payable and negatively impact liquidity and earnings. Moreover, we will record revenues and expenses of our foreign subsidiaries in their home currencies and translate these amounts into Canadian dollars. Consequently, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates in markets where we derive significant revenues or have significant operations may adversely affect our revenues, expenses and results of operations, as well as the value of our assets and liabilities. Our ability to operate could be hindered by the proprietary rights of others and the degree to which we are able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. A number of telecommunications companies have developed technologies, filed patent applications or received patents on various technologies that may be related to our business. Some of these technologies, applications or patents may conflict with our technologies or intellectual property rights. Such conflicts could limit the scope of patents, if any, that we may be able to obtain or result in the denial of our patent applications. If patents that cover our activities are issued to other persons or companies, we could be sued for patent infringement. In the event that other parties' patents cover any portion of our activities, we may be forced to develop alternatives or negotiate a license for such technology. We may not be successful in either developing alternative technologies or acquiring licenses upon reasonable terms, if at all. Any such license could require the expenditure of substantial time and other resources and could harm our business and decrease our earnings. If we do not obtain such licenses, we could encounter delays in the introduction of our products or could find that the development, manufacture or sale of products requiring such licenses is prohibited. 17 Despite efforts to protect proprietary rights, existing copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws afford limited protection. Third parties may attempt to copy or reverse-engineer aspects of our products or proprietary information. Accordingly, we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which would adversely affect our operations and revenues. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. Our future success and competitive position depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain certain proprietary intellectual property rights used in our products. Success may be partly achieved by prosecuting claims against others who we believe are infringing our rights, and by defending claims of intellectual property infringement brought by our competitors and others. Our involvement in intellectual property litigation could result in significant expense, could adversely affect sales of the challenged product or intellectual property, and may divert the efforts and focus of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is resolved in our favour. In addition, in our sales agreements, we have agreed to indemnify our customers for any expenses or liabilities resulting from claimed infringements of patents, trademarks or copyrights; we will continue to be bound by these obligations, which could expose us to additional costs. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation because they have substantially greater resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could affect our ability to continue our operations. In the event of an adverse outcome in any such litigation, we may, among other things, be required to: - pay substantial damages; - cease the development, manufacture, use or sale of products that infringe upon the intellectual property of others; - expend significant resources to design around a patent or to develop or acquire non-infringing intellectual property; - discontinue processes incorporating infringing technology; or - obtain licenses to the infringing intellectual property, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Should third parties file patent applications, or be issued patents claiming technology also claimed by us in pending applications, we may be required to participate in interference proceedings with the US Patent and Trademark Office or other proceedings outside Canada or the United States, including oppositions, to determine priority of invention or patentability. This could result in substantial cost, even if the eventual outcome were in our favour. RISKS FOR US HOLDERS We may be classified as a “controlled foreign corporation” for United States federal income tax purposes, which could result in certain adverse tax consequences to certain US holders. We could be considered a “controlled foreign corporation” (CFC) for US federal income tax purposes if more than 50% of the voting power of all classes of shares or the total value of the shares of the Company is owned, actually or constructively, by: - US citizens or residents; - US domestic partnerships and corporations; - estates or trusts other than foreign estates or trusts; and - each of the above owns 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of shares of the Company (each, a 10% United States shareholder). CFC classification has many complex results, one being that certain US holders who own common shares would be required to include income from the Company in their gross income for US federal income tax purposes, even if they do not receive a corresponding distribution from the Company. In addition, gain from the sale or exchange of common shares by a US holder who is, or was, a 10% United States shareholder at any time during the five-year period ending with the sale or exchange would be treated as ordinary income to the extent of the earnings and profits of the Company attributable to common shares sold or exchanged. Special foreign tax credit rules would also apply. US holders are urged to consult their own tax advisors, as to whether or not the Company may be classified as a CFC and the consequences of such classification. Foreign bankruptcy and insolvency laws may differ from their US counterparts. We are incorporated under the laws of Canada. In addition, our subsidiaries are incorporated and operate under the laws of various countries around the world. Consequently, Canadian or other counries’ bankruptcy laws could apply. Under US bankruptcy laws, courts typically have jurisdiction over a debtor’s property, wherever located, including property situated in other countries. There can be no assurance, however, that courts in Canada or elsewhere would recognize the US bankruptcy court’s jurisdiction. Accordingly, difficulties may arise in administering a US bankruptcy case involving a Canadian debtor or a debtor with its principal operating assets outside the United States, and any US bankruptcy court orders or judgments may not be enforceable. 18 US investors in our securities may have difficulties enforcing civil liabilities. We are governed by the laws of Canada. Moreover, a number of our directors and officers are residents of Canada or other non-US jurisdictions and a substantial portion of our assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for holders of our securities to effect service of process upon us or such persons within the United States or to enforce against us, or them, judgments of US courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the US federal or state securities laws or other US laws. In addition, there is doubt as to the enforceability in Canada of liabilities predicated solely upon US federal or state securities law against us, our directors, controlling persons and officers who are not residents of the United States, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of US court judgments. ITEM 