ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our Class B common stock involves various risks, including those mentioned below and those that are discussed from time to time in our other periodic filings with the SEC. Investors should carefully consider these risks, along with the other information contained in this report, before making an investment decision regarding our stock. There may be additional risks of which we are currently unaware, or which we currently consider immaterial. All of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, our results of operations, and the value of our stock. Risks Relating to Our Company Our limited operating history makes evaluation of our business difficult. We were formally incorporated in January 2003. We acquired Enhance Interactive in February 2003 which was recently renamed Marchex Adhere PPC, TrafficLeader in October 2003, which was renamed Marchex Connect NA, and goClick in July 2004. In February and April 2005, we completed the acquisitions of certain assets of Name Development and Pike Street Industries, respectively. In July 2005 we completed the acquisition of IndustryBrains, which was renamed Marchex Adhere SSC. In May 2006 we completed the acquisition of certain assets of AreaConnect and Open List. In September 2007, we completed the acquisition of VoiceStar, which was renamed Marchex Voice Services. 12 Table of Contents We have limited historical financial data upon which to base planned operating expenses or forecast accurately our future operating results. Further, our limited operating history will make it difficult for investors and securities analysts to evaluate our business and prospects. Our failure to address these risks and difficulties successfully could seriously harm us. We have largely incurred net losses since our inception, and we may incur net losses in the foreseeable future. We had an accumulated deficit of $137.7 million as of December 31, 2009. Our net expenses may increase based on the initiatives we undertake which for instance, may include increasing our sales and marketing activities, hiring additional personnel, incurring additional costs as a result of being a public company, acquiring additional businesses and making additional equity grants to our employees. We may increase our direct monetization of our proprietary traffic sources, which could adversely affect our revenues. Our strategic plan has been to increase our direct monetization of our proprietary traffic sources by using more of the advertising listings on our Publishing Network to display the advertisements of advertisers who are on our direct technology platform and those with whom we have direct relationships, as opposed to advertisers from third parties. This monetization may not be of the same rate levels as other advertising providers and as a result could adversely affect our revenues. We are dependent on certain distribution partners, for distribution of our services, and we derive a significant portion of our total revenue through these distribution partners. A loss of distribution partners or a decrease in revenue from certain distribution partners could adversely affect our business. A relatively small number of distribution partners currently deliver a significant percentage of traffic to our advertiser listings. Yahoo! is our largest distribution partner and delivers traffic to our advertiser listings which collectively represents approximately 7% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009. Separately, Yahoo! was responsible for 11% of our total revenue during the same period principally in respect of the revenues associated with our portfolio of domains. Our existing agreements with many of our other larger distribution partners permit either company to terminate without penalty on short notice and are primarily structured on a variable-payment basis, under which we make payments based on a specified percentage of revenue or based on the number of paid click-throughs. Yahoo! discontinued its feed management service relationship with us effective December 31, 2009 as a result of its recently announced partnership with Microsoft. Accordingly, we ended our feed management and related service offerings to advertisers on that date. We generated $7.5 million in revenues from feed management and related services for the year ended December 31, 2009. The impact on our financial statements attributable to our ending this service will be lessened by the relatively low operating margin attributable to this service given our revenue share arrangement with Yahoo! with respect thereto. We intend to continue devoting resources in support of our larger distribution partners, but there are no guarantees that these relationships will remain in place over the short- or long-term. In addition, we cannot be assured that any of these distribution partners will continue to generate current levels of revenue for us or that we will be able to maintain the applicable variable payment terms at their current levels. A loss of any of these distribution partners or a decrease in revenue due to lower traffic or less favorable variable payment terms from any one of these distribution relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Companies distributing advertising on the Internet have experienced, and will likely continue to experience, consolidation. This consolidation has reduced the number of partners that control the online advertising outlets with the most user traffic. According to the comScore Media Metrix Core Search Report for December 2009, Yahoo! accounted for 17% of the online searches in the United States and Google accounted for 66%. As a 13 Table of Contents result, the larger distribution partners have greater control over determining the market terms of distribution, including placement of advertisements and cost of placement. In addition, many participants in the performance- based advertising and search marketing industries control significant portions of the traffic that they deliver to advertisers. We do not believe, for example, that Yahoo! and Google are as reliant as we are on a third-party distribution network to deliver their services. This gives these companies a significant advantage over us in delivering their services, and with a lesser degree of risk. We rely on certain advertiser reseller partners and agencies, including AT&T, Yellowbook USA Inc., The Cobalt Group, WhitePages, Inc., Vantage Media, LLC and Intelius, Inc. for the purchase of various advertising and marketing services, as well as to provide us with a large number of advertisers. A loss of certain advertiser reseller partners and agencies or a decrease in revenue from these reseller partners could adversely affect our business. Such advertisers are subject to varying terms and conditions which may result in claims or credit risks to us. We benefit from the established relationships and national sales teams that certain of our reseller partners, who are leading reseller partners of advertisers and advertising agencies, have in place throughout the country and in local markets. These advertiser reseller partners and agencies refer or bring advertisers to us for the purchase of various advertising products and services. We derive a sizeable portion of our total revenue through these advertiser reseller partners and agencies. A loss of certain advertiser reseller partners and agencies or a decrease in revenue from these clients could adversely affect our business. AT&T is our largest advertiser reseller partner and was responsible for 20% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009. These advertisers may in certain cases be subject to negotiated terms and conditions separate from those applied to online clients accepted and processed through our automated advertiser management platform. In some cases, the applicable contract terms may be the result of legacy or industry association documentation or simply customized advertising solutions for large reseller partners and agencies. In any case, as a consequence of such varying terms and conditions, we may be subject to claims or credit risks that we may otherwise mitigate more efficiently across our automated advertiser management platform. These claims and risks may vary depending on the nature of the aggregated client base. Among other claims, we may be subject to disputes based on third party tracking information or analysis. We may also be subject to differing credit profiles and risks based on the agency relationship associated with these advertisers. For such advertisers, payment may be made on an invoice basis, unlike our retail platform which in many instances is paid in advance of the service. In some limited circumstances we may also have accepted individual advertiser payment liability in place of liability of the advertising agency or media advisor. We received approximately 55% and 52% of our revenue from our five largest customers for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009, respectively, and the loss of one or more of these customers could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our five largest customers (which includes SuperMedia Inc. discussed below) accounted for approximately 55% and 52% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009, respectively. Certain of these customers are not subject to long term contracts with us and are generally able to reduce advertising spending at any time and for any reason. A significant reduction in advertising spending by our largest customers, or the loss of one or more of these customers, if not replaced by new customers or an increase in business from existing customers, would adversely affect revenues. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If some of our customers experience financial distress, their weakened financial position could negatively affect our own financial position and results. We have a diverse customer base and, at any given time, one or more customers may experience financial distress, file for bankruptcy protection or go out of business. If a customer with whom we do a substantial 14 Table of Contents amount of business experiences financial difficulty, it could delay or jeopardize the collection of accounts receivable, result in significant reductions in services provided by us and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. SuperMedia Inc. (formerly Idearc Media Corp.) and Dex One Corporation (formerly R.H. Donnelley Corporation) and its subsidiaries have recently consummated reorganizations under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. SuperMedia and Dex One accounted for $2.8 million and $1.1 million of revenue, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2009. We did not recognize an aggregate of $1.6 million in revenue related to services delivered to SuperMedia and Dex One in light of collectibility considerations for the year ended December 31, 2009 and we do not presently anticipate recognizing such revenue in the future based on the terms of their plans of reorganization. The extent of our future business relationships with SuperMedia and Dex One is uncertain. We may incur liabilities for the activities of our advertisers, distribution partners and other users of our services, which could adversely affect our business. Many of our advertisement generation and distribution processes are automated. In most cases, advertisers use our online tools and account management systems to create and submit advertiser listings. These advertiser listings are submitted in a bulk data feed to our distribution partners. Although we monitor our distribution partners on an ongoing basis primarily for traffic quality, these partners control the distribution of the advertiser listings provided in the data feed. We have a large number of distribution partners who display our advertiser listings on their networks. Our advertiser listings are predominantly delivered to our distribution partners in an automated fashion through an XML data feed or data dump. Our distribution partners are contractually required to use the listings created by our advertiser customers in accordance with applicable laws and regulations and in conformity with the publication restrictions in our agreements, which are intended to promote the quality and validity of the traffic provided to our advertisers. Nonetheless, we do not operationally control or manage these distribution partners and any breach of these agreements on the part of any distribution partner or its affiliates could result in liability for our business. These agreements include indemnification obligations on the part of our distribution partners, but there is no guarantee that we would be able to collect against offending distribution partners or their affiliates in the event of a claim under these indemnification provisions. We do not conduct a manual editorial review of a substantial number of the advertiser listings directly submitted by advertisers online, nor do we manually review the display of the vast majority of the advertiser listings by our distribution partners submitted to us by XML data feeds or data dumps. Likewise, in cases where we provide editorial or value-added services for our large reseller partners or agencies, such as ad creation and optimization for local advertisers or landing pages and micro-sites for pay-for-call customers, we rely on the content and information provided to us by these agents on behalf of their individual advertisers. We do not investigate the individual business activities of these advertisers other than the information provided to us or in some cases review of advertiser Web sites. We may not successfully avoid liability for unlawful activities carried out by our advertisers and other users of our services or unpermitted uses of our advertiser listings by distribution partners and their affiliates. Our potential liability for unlawful activities of our advertisers and other users of our services or unpermitted uses of our advertiser listings and advertising services and platform by distribution partners and advertiser reseller partners and agencies could require us to implement measures to reduce our exposure to such liability, which may require us, among other things, to spend substantial resources, to discontinue certain service offerings or to terminate certain distribution partner relationships. For example, as a result of the actions of advertisers in our network, we may be subject to private or governmental actions relating to a wide variety of issues, such as privacy, gambling, promotions, and intellectual property ownership and infringement. Under agreements with certain of our larger distribution partners, we may be required to indemnify these distribution 15 Table of Contents partners against liabilities or losses resulting from the content of our advertiser listings or resulting from third- party intellectual property infringement claims. Although our advertisers agree to indemnify us with respect to claims arising from these listings, we may not be able to recover all or any of the liabilities or losses incurred by us as a result of the activities of our advertisers. Our insurance policies may not provide coverage for liability arising out of activities of users of our services. In addition, our reliance on some content and information provided to us by our large advertiser reseller partners and agencies may expose us to liability not covered by our insurance policies. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate insurance coverage to reduce or limit the liabilities associated with our businesses. Any costs incurred as a result of such liability or asserted liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If we do not maintain and grow a critical mass of advertisers and distribution partners, the value of our services could be adversely affected. Our success depends, in large part, on the maintenance and growth of a critical mass of advertisers and distribution partners and a continued interest in our performance-based advertising, telemarketing analytics and search marketing services. Advertisers will generally seek the most competitive return on investment from advertising and marketing services. Distribution partners will also seek the most favorable payment terms available in the market. Advertisers and distribution partners may change providers or the volume of business with a provider, unless the product and terms are competitive. In this environment, we must compete to acquire and maintain our network of advertisers and distribution partners. If our business is unable to maintain and grow our base of advertisers, our current distribution partners may be discouraged from continuing to work with us, and this may create obstacles for us to enter into agreements with new distribution partners. Our business also in part depends on certain of our large advertiser reseller partners and agencies to grow their base of advertisers as these advertisers become increasingly important to our business and our ability to attract additional distribution partners and opportunities. Similarly, if our distribution network does not grow and does not continue to improve over time, current and prospective advertisers and reseller partners and agencies may reduce or terminate this portion of their business with us. Any decline in the number of advertisers and distribution partners could adversely affect the value of our services. We are dependent upon the quality of traffic in our network to provide value to our advertisers and the advertisers of our partners, and any failure in our quality control could have a material adverse effect on the value of our services to our advertisers and adversely affect our revenues. We utilize certain monitoring processes with respect to the quality of the Internet and voice traffic that we deliver to our advertisers. Among the factors we seek to monitor are sources and causes of low quality clicks such as non-human processes, including robots, spiders or other software, the mechanical automation of clicking, and other types of invalid clicks, click fraud, or click spam, the purpose of which is something other than to view the underlying content. Additionally, we also seek to identify other indicators which may suggest that a user may not be targeted by or desirable to our advertisers. Even with such monitoring in place, there is a risk that a certain amount of low-quality traffic or traffic that is deemed to be less valuable by our advertisers will be delivered to such advertisers, which may be detrimental to those relationships. We have regularly refunded fees that our advertisers had paid to us which were attributed to low quality traffic. If we are unable to stop or reduce low quality traffic, these refunds may increase. Low-quality traffic may further prevent us from growing our base of advertisers and cause us to lose relationships with existing advertisers, or become the target of litigation, both of which would adversely affect our revenues. 16 Table of Contents We may be subject to intellectual property claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to use certain critical technologies, divert our resources and management attention from our business operations and create uncertainty about ownership of technology essential to our business. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property and to operate without infringing on the intellectual property rights of others in the process. There can be no guarantee that any of our intellectual property will be adequately safeguarded, or that it will not be challenged by third parties. We may be subject to patent infringement claims or other intellectual property infringement claims, including claims of trademark infringement in connection with our acquisition of previously-owned Internet domain names and claims of copyright infringement with respect to certain of our proprietary Web sites that would be costly to defend and could limit our ability to use certain critical technologies. Any patent or other intellectual property litigation could negatively impact our business by diverting resources and management attention from other aspects of the business and adding uncertainty as to the ownership of technology, services and property that we view as proprietary and essential to our business. In addition, a successful claim of patent infringement against us and our failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology on reasonable terms, or at all, could prevent us from using critical technologies which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may need additional funding to meet our obligations and to pursue our business strategy. Additional funding may not be available to us and our financial condition could therefore be adversely affected. We may require additional funding to meet our ongoing obligations and to pursue our business strategy, which may include the selective acquisition of businesses and technologies. In addition, we have incurred and we may incur certain obligations in the future. There can be no assurance that if we were to need additional funds to meet these obligations that additional financing arrangements would be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Furthermore, if adequate additional funds are not available, we will be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate material parts of the implementation of our business strategy, including potential additional acquisitions or internally-developed businesses. Our acquisitions could divert management’s attention, cause ownership dilution to our stockholders, cause our earnings to decrease and be difficult to integrate. Our business strategy includes identifying, structuring, completing and integrating acquisitions. Acquisitions in the technology and Internet sectors involve a high degree of risk. We may also be unable to find a sufficient number of attractive opportunities to meet our objectives which include revenue growth, profitability and competitive market share. Our acquired companies may have histories of net losses and may expect net losses for the foreseeable future. Acquisitions are accompanied by a number of risks that could harm our business, operating results and financial condition: • We could experience a substantial strain on our resources, including time and money, and we may not be successful; • Our management’s attention could be diverted from our ongoing business concerns; • While integrating new companies, we may lose key executives or other employees of these companies; • We may issue shares of our Class B common stock as consideration for acquisitions which may result in ownership dilution to our stockholders; • We could fail to successfully integrate our financial and management controls, technology, reporting systems and procedures, or adequately expand, train and manage our workforce; 17 Table of Contents • We could experience customer dissatisfaction or performance problems with an acquired company or technology; • We could become subject to unknown or underestimated liabilities of an acquired entity or incur unexpected expenses or losses from such acquisitions; • We could incur possible impairment charges related to goodwill or other intangible assets or other unanticipated events or circumstances, any of which could harm our business; and • We may be exposed to investigations and/or audits by federal, state or other taxing authorities. Consequently, we might not be successful in integrating any acquired businesses, products or technologies, and might not achieve anticipated revenue and cost benefits. The loss of our senior management, including our founding executive officers, could harm our current and future operations and prospects. We are heavily dependent upon the continued services of Russell C. Horowitz, our chairman and chief executive officer, and John Keister, our president, and the other members of our senior management team. Each member of our senior management team is an at-will employee and may voluntarily terminate his employment with us at any time with minimal notice. Russell C. Horowitz, Ethan A. Caldwell, Peter Christothoulou and John Keister, our founding executive officers, each own shares of fully vested Class A common stock. Following any termination of employment, each of these employees would only be subject to a twelve-month non-competition and non-solicitation obligation with respect to our customers and employees under our standard confidentiality agreement. Further, as of December 31, 2009, Russell C. Horowitz, Ethan A. Caldwell, Peter Christothoulou and John Keister together controlled 93% of the combined voting power of our outstanding capital stock. Their collective voting control is not tied to their continued employment with Marchex. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management, including our founding executive officers, for any reason, or any conflict among our founding executive officers, could harm our current and future operations and prospects. We may have difficulty retaining current personnel as well as attracting and retaining additional qualified, experienced, highly skilled personnel, which could adversely affect the implementation of our business plan. Our performance is largely dependent upon the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. In order to fully implement our business plan, we will need to retain our current qualified personnel, as well as attract and retain additional qualified personnel. Thus, our success will in significant part depend upon our retention of current personnel as well as the efforts of personnel not yet identified and upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales and marketing personnel. We are also dependent on managerial and technical personnel to the extent they may have knowledge or information about our businesses and technical systems that may not be known by our other personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain necessary personnel. The failure to hire and retain such personnel could adversely affect the implementation of our business plan. If we are unable to obtain and maintain adequate insurance, our financial condition could be adversely affected in the event of uninsured or inadequately insured loss or damage. Our ability to effectively recruit and retain qualified officers and directors may also be adversely affected if we experience difficulty in maintaining adequate directors’ and officers’ liability insurance. We may not be able to obtain and maintain insurance policies on terms affordable to us that would adequately insure our business and property against damage, loss or claims by third parties. To the extent our 18 Table of Contents business or property suffers any damages, losses or claims by third parties that are not covered or adequately covered by insurance, our financial condition may be materially adversely affected. We currently have directors’ and officers’ liability insurance. If we are unable to maintain sufficient insurance as a public company to cover liability claims made against our officers and directors, we may not be able to retain or recruit qualified officers and directors to manage our company, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. It may be difficult for us to retain or attract qualified officers and directors, which could adversely affect our business and our ability to maintain the listing of our Class B common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified officers, directors and members of board committees required to provide for our effective management as a result of changes in the rules and regulations which govern publicly-held companies, including, but not limited to, certifications from executive officers and requirements for financial experts on boards of directors. The perceived increased personal risk associated with these recent changes may deter qualified individuals from accepting these roles. Further, applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Nasdaq Stock Market heighten the requirements for board or committee membership, particularly with respect to an individual’s independence from the corporation and level of experience in finance and accounting matters. We may have difficulty attracting and retaining directors with the requisite qualifications. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified officers and directors, our business and our ability to maintain the listing of our shares of Class B common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market could be adversely affected. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, which could harm our brand and operating results. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable and accurate financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. We have devoted significant resources and time to comply with the internal control over financial reporting requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In addition, Section 404 under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we assess and our auditors attest to the effectiveness of our controls over financial reporting. Our current and future compliance with the annual internal control report requirement will depend on the effectiveness of our financial reporting and data systems and controls across our operating subsidiaries. We expect these systems and controls to become increasingly complex to the extent that we integrate acquisitions and our business grows. To effectively manage this growth, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we design, implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation or operation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. Inadequate internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock and our access to capital. Accounting for employee stock options using the fair value method has significantly reduced and will likely continue to significantly reduce our net income. We adopted the provisions of FASB ASC 718 on January 1, 2006. Thus, our consolidated financial statements reflect the fair value of stock options granted to employees as a compensation expense, which has had, and will in the future likely continue to have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations and net income per share. We rely heavily on stock options to compensate existing employees and to attract new employees. If we reduce or alter our use of stock-based compensation to minimize the recognition of these expenses, our ability to recruit, motivate and retain employees may be impaired, which could put us at a 19 Table of Contents competitive disadvantage in the employee marketplace. In order to prevent any net decrease in their overall compensation packages, we may choose to make corresponding increases in the cash compensation or other incentives we pay to existing and new employees. Any increases in employee wages and salaries would diminish our cash available for marketing, product development and other uses and might cause our GAAP profits to decline. Any of these effects might cause the market price of our Class B common stock to decline. Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets would result in a decrease in earnings. Current accounting rules require that goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives no longer be amortized, but instead be tested for impairment at least annually. These rules also require that intangible assets with definite useful lives be amortized over their respective estimated useful lives to their estimated residual values, and reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Events and circumstances considered in determining whether the carrying value of amortizable intangible assets and goodwill may not be recoverable include, but are not limited to: significant changes in performance relative to expected operating results; significant changes in the use of the assets; significant negative industry or economic trends; or a significant decline in our stock price and/or market capitalization for a sustained period of time. To the extent such evaluation indicates that the useful lives of intangible assets are different than originally estimated, the amortization period is reduced or extended and, accordingly, the quarterly amortization expense is increased or decreased. To the extent such evaluation indicates that the useful lives of intangible assets are different than originally estimated, the amortization period is reduced or extended and, accordingly, amortization expense is increased or decreased. We recorded a substantial non-cash impairment charge for goodwill and intangible assets during the fourth quarter of 2008 as a result of the impact of the recent adverse economic environment including the deterioration in the equity and credit markets. We may be required to record future charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any additional impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined. Any impairment charges or changes to the estimated amortization periods could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We may not be able to realize the intended and anticipated benefits from our acquisitions of Internet domain names, which could affect the value of these acquisitions to our business and our ability to meet our financial obligations and targets. We may not be able to realize the intended and anticipated benefits that we currently expect from our acquisitions of Internet domain names. These intended and anticipated benefits include increasing our cash flow from operations, broadening our distribution offerings and delivering services that strengthen our advertiser relationships. Factors that could affect our ability to achieve these benefits include: • A significant amount of revenue attributed to our network of Web sites comes through our agreement with Yahoo! and its subsidiaries. Under our agreement, Yahoo! has certain limited exclusive and preferential rights with respect to the commercialization of many of these Web sites through paid listings. Yahoo! controls the delivery of a portion of the paid listings to many of these Web sites. As a result, the monetization of these Web sites is presently largely dependent on the revenue from the paid listings allocated by Yahoo! and its subsidiaries to these Web sites. This allocation may depend on Yahoo!’s advertiser base, internal policies in effect from time to time, perceived quality of traffic, origin of traffic, history of performance and conversion, technical and network changes made by Yahoo!, among many factors and determinations which may or may not be controlled by us or known to us. In addition to the aforementioned factors, if our business relationship with Yahoo! is terminated, we may not be able to replace it with another large-scale provider of paid listings under terms which allow us to increase or maintain the amount of revenue attributable to our network of Web sites. 20 Table of Contents • Our revenue will also depend on the levels of traffic, click-throughs and calls that occur on our network of Web sites is able to achieve in any period. Traffic levels, click-throughs and calls will increase and decrease based upon a number of factors not entirely within our control, including the extent of indexing of our Web sites within search engines and directories, placement within search results and success of marketing efforts. Traffic levels, the number of click-throughs and calls may also be affected by service interruptions or other technical outages. Our ability to meet the traffic demands, click-throughs and calls of our network of Web sites is also dependent on a number of third party vendors and our technical teams to manage the operations effectively. Any downtime of our servers or other outages will negatively impact the revenue from our Publishing Network. • We will need to continue to acquire commercially valuable Internet domain names to grow our presence in local online advertising. We will need to continuously improve our technologies to acquire valuable Internet domain names as competition in the marketplace for appropriate Internet domain names intensifies. Our domain name acquisition efforts are subject to rules and guidelines in the United States and in foreign countries established by registries which maintain Internet domain name registrations and the registrars which process and facilitate Internet domain name registrations. The registries and registrars may change the rules and guidelines for acquiring Internet domains or establish additional requirements for previously-owned Internet domain names or modify the requirements for holding Internet domain names. As a result, we might not acquire or maintain names that contribute to our financial results. • Some of our existing distribution partners may perceive our Publishing Network as a competitive threat and therefore may decide to terminate their agreements with us. • We intend to apply our technology and expertise to geography-specific Web sites that we believe are under-commercialized and not yet mature from a monetization perspective. However, if the current disparities in traffic and monetization of such search terms do not narrow in a favorable way, we may expend significant company resources on business efforts that do not realize the results we anticipate. If the acquired assets are not integrated into our business as we anticipate, we may not be able to achieve these benefits or realize the value paid for our acquisitions of Internet domain names, which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not control the means by which users access our Web sites, and material changes to current navigation practices or technologies or marketing practices or significant increases in our marketing costs could result in a material adverse effect on our business. The success of our Publishing Network depends in large part upon consumer access to our Web sites. Consumers access our Web sites primarily through the following methods: directly accessing our Web sites by typing descriptive keywords or keyword strings into the uniform resource locator (URL) address box of an Internet browser; accessing our Web sites by clicking on bookmarked Web sites; and accessing our Web sites through search engines and directories. Each of these methods requires the use of a third party product or service, such as an Internet browser or search engine or directory. Internet browsers may provide alternatives to the URL address box to locate Web sites, and search engines may from time to time change and establish rules regarding the indexing and optimization of Web sites. We also market certain Web sites through search engines. Historically, we have limited our search engine marketing to less than five leading search engines. Product developments and market practices for these means of access to our Web sites are not within our control. We may experience a decline in traffic to our Web sites if third party browser technologies or search engine methodologies and rules are changed to our disadvantage. We have experienced abrupt search engine algorithm and policy changes in the past. We expect the search engines we utilize to market and drive users to 21 Table of Contents our Web sites to continue to periodically change their algorithms, policies and technologies. These changes may result in an interruption in users ability to access our Web sites or impair our ability to maintain and grow the number of users who visit our Web sites. We may also be forced to significantly increase marketing expenditures in the event that market prices for online advertising and paid-listings escalate. Any of these changes could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may experience unforeseen liabilities in connection with our acquisitions of Internet domain names or arising out of third party domain names included in our distribution network, which could negatively impact our financial results. The Name Development, Pike Street and AreaConnect asset acquisitions involved the acquisition of a large number of previously-owned Internet domain names. Furthermore, we have separately acquired and intend to continue to acquire in the future additional previously-owned Internet domain names. In some cases, these acquired names may have trademark significance that is not readily apparent to us or is not identified by us in the bulk purchasing process. As a result we may face demands by third party trademark owners asserting infringement or dilution of their rights and seeking transfer of acquired Internet domain names under the Uniform Domain Name Dispute Resolution Policy administered by ICANN or actions under the U.S. Anti-Cybersquatting Consumer Protection Act. Additionally, we display paid listings on third party domain names and third party Web sites that are part of our distribution network, which also could subject us to a wide variety of civil claims including intellectual property ownership and infringement. We intend to review each claim or demand which may arise from time to time on its merits on a case-by-case basis with the assistance of counsel and we intend to transfer any rights acquired by us to any party that has demonstrated a valid prior right or claim. We cannot, however, guarantee that we will be able to resolve these disputes without litigation. The potential violation of third party intellectual property rights and potential causes of action under consumer protection laws may subject us to unforeseen liabilities including injunctions and judgments for money damages. Risks Relating to Our Business and Our Industry If we are unable to compete in the highly competitive performance-based advertising and search marketing industries, we may experience reduced demand for our products and services. We operate in a highly competitive and changing environment. We principally compete with other companies which offer services in the following areas: • sales to advertisers of pay-per-click services; • aggregation or optimization of online advertising for distribution through search engines, product shopping engines, directories, Web sites or other outlets; • provision of local and vertical Web sites containing information and user feedback designed to attract users and help consumers make better, more informed local decisions, while providing targeted advertising inventory for advertisers; • delivery of online advertising to end users or customers of advertisers through destination Web sites or other distribution outlets; • delivery of pay-for-call advertising to end users or customers of advertisers through destination Web sites or other distribution outlets; • local search sales training; • services and outsourcing of technologies that allow advertisers to manage their advertising campaigns across multiple networks and track the success of these campaigns; 22 Table of Contents • third party domain monetization; and • sales to advertisers of call tracking services. Although we currently pursue a strategy that allows us to potentially partner with all relevant companies in the industry, there are certain companies in the industry that may not wish to partner with us. Despite the fact that we currently work with several of our potential competitors, there are no guarantees that these companies will continue to work with us in the future. We currently or potentially compete with a variety of companies, including Google, IAC/InterActiveCorp, Microsoft, Yahoo!, WebVisible and ReachLocal. Many of these actual or perceived competitors also currently or may in the future have business relationships with us, particularly in distribution. However, such companies may terminate their relationships with us. Furthermore, our competitors may be able to secure agreements with us on more favorable terms, which could reduce the usage of our services, increase the amount payable to our distribution partners, reduce total revenue and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We expect competition to intensify in the future because current and new competitors can enter our market with little difficulty. The barriers to entering our market are relatively low. In fact, many current Internet and media companies presently have the technical capabilities and advertiser bases to enter the search marketing services industry. Further, if the consolidation trend continues among the larger media and search engine companies with greater brand recognition, the share of the market remaining for smaller search marketing services providers could decrease, even though the number of smaller providers could continue to increase. These factors could adversely affect our competitive position in the search marketing services industry. Some of our competitors, as well as potential entrants into our market, may be better positioned to succeed in this market. They may have: • longer operating histories; • more management experience; • an employee base with more extensive experience; • better geographic coverage; • larger customer bases; • greater brand recognition; and • significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources. Currently, and in the future, as the use of the Internet and other online services increases, there will likely be larger, more well-established and well-financed entities that acquire companies and/or invest in or form joint ventures in categories or countries of interest to us, all of which could adversely impact our business. Any of these trends could increase competition and reduce the demand for any of our services. We face competition from traditional media companies, and we may not be included in the advertising budgets of large advertisers, which could harm our operating results. In addition to Internet companies, we face competition from companies that offer traditional media advertising opportunities. Most large advertisers have set advertising budgets, a very small portion of which is allocated to Internet advertising. We expect that large advertisers will continue to focus most of their advertising efforts on traditional media. If we fail to convince these companies to spend a portion of their advertising budgets with us, or if our existing advertisers reduce the amount they spend on our programs, our operating results would be harmed. 23 Table of Contents If we are not able to respond to the rapid technological change characteristic of our industry, our products and services may cease to be competitive. The market for our products and services is characterized by rapid change in business models and technological infrastructure, and we will need to constantly adapt to changing markets and technologies to provide new and competitive products and services. If we are unable to ensure that our users, advertisers, and distribution partners have a high-quality experience with our products and services, then they may become dissatisfied and move to competitors’ products and services. Accordingly, our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to develop and offer competitive products and services for both our target market and for applications in new markets. We may not, however, be able to successfully do so, and our competitors may develop innovations that render our products and services obsolete or uncompetitive. Our technical systems are vulnerable to interruption and damage that may be costly and time-consuming to resolve and may harm our business and reputation. A disaster could interrupt our services for an indeterminate length of time and severely damage our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • fire; • floods; • network failure; • hardware failure; • software failure; • power loss; • telecommunications failures; • break-ins; • terrorism, war or sabotage; • computer viruses; • denial of service attacks; • penetration of our network by unauthorized computer users and “hackers” and other similar events; • natural disaster; and • other unanticipated problems. We may not have developed or implemented adequate protections or safeguards to overcome any of these events. We also may not have anticipated or addressed many of the potential events that could threaten or undermine our technology network. Any of these occurrences could cause material interruptions or delays in our business, result in the loss of data or render us unable to provide services to our customers. In addition, if a person is able to circumvent our security measures, he or she could destroy or misappropriate valuable information or disrupt our operations. We have deployed firewall hardware intended to thwart hacker attacks. Although we maintain property insurance and business interruption insurance, our insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur as a result of a catastrophic system failure or other loss, and our insurers may not be able or may decline to do so for a variety of reasons. If we fail to address these issues in a timely manner, we may lose the confidence of our advertisers and distribution partners, our revenue may decline and our business could suffer. In addition, as we expand our 24 Table of Contents service offerings and enter into new business areas, we may be required to significantly modify and expand our software and technology platform. If we fail to accomplish these tasks in a timely manner, our business and reputation will likely suffer. We rely on third party technology, platforms, carriers, communications providers, and server and hardware providers, and a failure of service by these providers could adversely affect our business and reputation. We rely upon third party collocation providers to host our main servers. If these providers are unable to handle current or higher volumes of use, experience any interruption in operations or cease operations for any reason or if we are unable to agree on satisfactory terms for continued hosting relationships, we would be forced to enter into a relationship with other service providers or assume hosting responsibilities ourselves. If we are forced to switch hosting facilities, we may not be successful in finding an alternative service provider on acceptable terms or in hosting the computer servers ourselves. We may also be limited in our remedies against these providers in the event of a failure of service. In the past, we have experienced short-term outages in the service maintained by one of our collocation providers. We also rely on a select group of third party providers for components of our technology platform and support for our advertising and call-based services, such as hardware and software providers, telecommunications carriers and Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) providers, credit card processors and domain name registrars. As a result, key operational resources of our business are concentrated with a limited number of third party providers. A failure or limitation of service or available capacity by any of these third party providers could adversely affect our business and reputation. Furthermore, if any of these significant providers are unable to provide the levels of service and dedicated resources over time that we required in our business, we may not be able to replace certain of these providers in a manner that is efficient, cost-effective or satisfactory to our customers, and as a result our business could be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights, which could result in our competitors marketing competing products and services utilizing our intellectual property and could adversely affect our competitive position. Our success and ability to compete effectively are substantially dependent upon our internally developed and acquired technology and data resources, which we protect through a combination of copyright, trade secret, and patent and trademark law. To date, we acquired U.S. Patent Number 6,822,663 titled “Transform Rule Generator for Web-Based Markup Languages” through our Voice Services transaction. We also own nonprovisional U.S. Patent Application Number 10/947,384 titled “Automatically Updating Performance-Based Online Advertising System and Method,” nonprovisional U.S. Patent Application Number 11/868,398 titled “System and Method for Classifying Search Queries” nonprovisional U.S. Patent Application Number 11/985,188 titled “Method and System for Tracking Telephone Calls” and nonprovisional U.S. Patent Application Number 12/512,821 titled “Facility for Reconciliation of Business Records Using Genetic Algorithms.” In the future, additional patents may be filed with respect to internally developed or acquired technologies. Our industry is highly competitive and many individuals and companies have sought to patent processes in the industry. We may decide not to protect certain intellectual properties or business methods which may later turn out to be significant to us. In addition, the patent process takes several years and involves considerable expense. Further, patent applications and patent positions in our industry are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions due in part to the number of competing technologies. As a result, we may not be able to successfully prosecute these patents, in whole or in part, or any additional patent filings that we may make in the future. We also depend on our trademarks, trade names and domain names. We may not be able to adequately protect our technology and data resources. In addition, intellectual property laws vary from country to country, and it may be more difficult to protect our intellectual property in some foreign jurisdictions in which we may plan to enter. If we fail to obtain and maintain patent or other intellectual property protection for our technology, our competitors could market competing products and services utilizing our technology. 25 Table of Contents Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties domestically and internationally may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our services, technology and other intellectual property. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent any misappropriation or confusion among consumers and advertisers. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights from unauthorized use, our competitive position could be adversely affected. We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, which could be expensive and time consuming. We may initiate patent litigation against third parties to protect or enforce our patent rights, and we may be similarly sued by others. We may also become subject to interference proceedings conducted in the patent and trademark offices of various countries to determine the priority of inventions. The defense and prosecution, if necessary, of intellectual property suits, interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings is costly and may divert our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. We may not prevail in any of these suits. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not being issued. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have an adverse effect on the trading price of our Class B common stock. Our quarterly results of operations might fluctuate due to seasonality, which could adversely affect our growth rate and in turn the market price of our securities. Our quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future due to seasonal fluctuations in the level of Internet usage. As is typical in our industry, the second and third quarters of the calendar year generally experience relatively lower usage than the first and fourth quarters. It is generally understood that during the spring and summer months of the year, Internet usage is lower than during other times of the year, especially in comparison to the fourth quarter of the calendar year. The extent to which usage may decrease during these off-peak periods is difficult to predict. Prolonged or severe decreases in usage during these periods may adversely affect our growth rate and in turn the market price of our securities. Additionally, the recent deterioration in the economic conditions has resulted in many advertisers and reseller partners reducing advertising and marketing services budgets, which we expect will impact our quarterly results of operations in addition to the typical seasonality seen in our industry. We are susceptible to general economic conditions, and a downturn in advertising and marketing spending by advertisers could adversely affect our operating results. Our operating results will be subject to fluctuations based on general economic conditions, in particular those conditions that impact advertiser-consumer transactions. Recent disruptions in the global financial markets and the resulting deterioration in economic conditions has caused and could cause additional decreases in or delays in advertising spending and is likely to reduce and/or negatively impact our short term ability to grow our revenues. Further, any decreased collectability of accounts receivable or early termination of agreements due to the recent deterioration in economic conditions could negatively impact our results of operations. 26 Table of Contents We depend on the growth of the Internet and Internet infrastructure for our future growth and any decrease in growth or anticipated growth in Internet usage could adversely affect our business prospects. Our future revenue and profits, if any, depend upon the continued widespread use of the Internet as an effective commercial and business medium. Factors which could reduce the widespread use of the Internet include: • possible disruptions or other damage to the Internet or telecommunications infrastructure; • failure of the individual networking infrastructures of our advertisers and distribution partners to alleviate potential overloading and delayed response times; • a decision by advertisers and consumers to spend more of their marketing dollars on offline programs; • increased governmental regulation and taxation; and • actual or perceived lack of security or privacy protection. In particular, concerns over the security of transactions conducted on the Internet and the privacy of users, including the risk of identity theft, may inhibit the growth of Internet usage, especially online commercial transactions. In order for the online commerce market to develop successfully, we and other market participants must be able to transmit confidential information, including credit card information, securely over public networks. Any decrease in anticipated Internet growth and usage could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects. We are exposed to risks associated with credit card fraud and credit payment, and we may continue to suffer losses as a result of fraudulent data or payment failure by advertisers. We have suffered losses and may continue to suffer losses as a result of payments made with fraudulent credit card data. Our failure to control fraudulent credit card transactions could reduce our net revenue and gross margin and negatively impact our standing with applicable credit card authorization agencies. In addition, under limited circumstances, we extend credit to advertisers who may default on their accounts payable to us or fraudulently “charge-back” amounts on their credit cards for services that have already been delivered by us. Government regulation of the Internet may adversely affect our business and operating results. Online search, e-commerce and related businesses face uncertainty related to future government regulation of the Internet through the application of new or existing federal, state and international laws. Due to the rapid growth and widespread use of the Internet, legislatures at the federal and state level have enacted and may continue to enact various laws and regulations relating to the Internet. Individual states may also enact consumer protection laws that are more restrictive than the ones that already exist. Furthermore, the application of existing laws and regulations to Internet companies remains somewhat unclear. For example, as a result of the actions of advertisers in our network, we may be subject to existing laws and regulations relating to a wide variety of issues such as consumer privacy, gambling, sweepstakes, advertising, promotions, defamation, pricing, taxation, financial market regulation, quality of products and services, computer trespass, spyware, adware, child protection and intellectual property ownership and infringement. In addition, it is not clear whether existing laws that require licenses or permits for certain of our advertisers’ lines of business apply to us, including those related to insurance and securities brokerage, law offices and pharmacies. Existing federal and state laws that may impact the growth and profitability of our business include, among others: • The Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) provides protection from copyright liability for online service providers that list or link to third party Web sites. We currently qualify for the safe harbor under 27 Table of Contents the DMCA; however, if it were determined that we did not meet the safe harbor requirements, we could be exposed to copyright infringement litigation, which could be costly and time-consuming. • The Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA) restricts the distribution of certain materials deemed harmful to children and impose limitations on Web sites’ ability to collect personal information from minors. COPPA allows the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to impose fines and penalties upon Web site operators whose sites do not fully comply with the law’s requirements. We do not currently offer any websites “directed to children,” nor do we collect personal data from children. • The Protection of Children from Sexual Predators Act requires online service providers to report evidence of violations of federal child pornography laws under certain circumstances. • The Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing (CAN SPAM) Act of 2003 establishes requirements for those who send commercial e-mails, spells out penalties for entities that transmit noncompliant commercial e-mail and/or whose products are advertised in noncompliant commercial e-mail and gives consumers the right to opt-out of receiving commercial e-mails. The FTC is authorized to enforce the CAN-SPAM Act. This law also gives the Department of Justice the authority to enforce its criminal sanctions. Other federal and state agencies can enforce the law against organizations under their jurisdiction, and companies that provide Internet access may sue violators as well. • The Electronic Communications Privacy Act prevents private entities from disclosing Internet subscriber records and the contents of electronic communications, subject to certain exceptions. • The Computer Fraud and Abuse Act and other federal and state laws protect computer users from unauthorized computer access/hacking, and other actions by third parties which may be viewed as a violation of privacy. Michigan and Utah child protection laws, designed to protect children under the age of 18 from receiving adult content via e-mail and other electronic forms of communication (e.g., cell phones and IM). Both Michigan and Utah have developed lists of minors’ e-mail addresses based on parents’ and guardians’ submissions. Once an address has been on a list for 30 days, Web publishers are prohibited from sending the address anything containing, or even linking to, advertising for a product or service that a minor is legally prohibited from purchasing or using, even if the owner of that address previously requested to receive the information. In addition, senders need to match their own mailing lists against the state registries on at least a monthly basis, for which they must pay both Michigan and Utah a per-address fee. Courts may apply each of these laws in unintended and unexpected ways. As a company that provides services over the Internet as well as call recording and call tracking services, we may be subject to an action brought under any of these or future laws. Among the types of legislation currently being considered at the federal and state levels are consumer laws regulating for the use of certain types of software applications or downloads and the use of “cookies.” These proposed laws are intended to target specific types of software applications often referred to as “spyware,” “invasiveware” or “adware,” and may also cover certain applications currently used in the online advertising industry to serve and distribute advertisements. In addition, federal legislation is expected to be introduced which would regulate “online behavioral advertising” practices. If passed, these laws would impose new obligations for companies that use such software applications or technologies. Many Internet services are automated, and companies such as ours may be unknowing conduits for illegal or prohibited materials. It is possible that some courts may impose a strict liability standard or require such companies to monitor their customers’ conduct. Although we would not be responsible or involved in any way in such illegal conduct, it is possible that we would somehow be held responsible for the actions of our advertisers or distribution partners. We may also be subject to costs and liabilities with respect to privacy issues. Several companies have incurred penalties for failing to abide by the representations made in their public-facing privacy policies. In 28 Table of Contents addition, several states have passed laws that require businesses to implement and maintain reasonable security procedures and practices to protect sensitive personal information and to provide notice to consumers in the event of a security breach. Further, it is anticipated that additional federal and state privacy-related legislation will be enacted. Such legislation could negatively affect our business. In addition, foreign governments may pass laws which could negatively impact our business and/or may prosecute us for violating existing laws. Such laws might include EU member country conforming legislation under applicable EU Privacy, eCommerce, Telecommunications and Data Protection Directives. Any costs incurred in addressing foreign laws could negatively affect the viability of our business. Our exposure to this risk will increase to the extent we expand our operations internationally. Federal and state regulation of telecommunications may adversely affect our business and operating results. Subsidiaries of the Company provide information and analytics services to certain advertisers and reseller partners that may include the enhanced transmission of voice services. In connection therewith, the Company, through its subsidiaries, obtains certain telecommunications products and services from carriers in order to deliver these packages of information and analytic services. Telecommunications laws and regulations (and interpretations thereof) are evolving in response to rapid changes in the telecommunications industry. If our carrier partners were to be subject to any changes in applicable law or regulation (or interpretations thereof), then we in turn may be subject to increased costs for their products and services or receive products and services that may be of less value to our customers, which in turn could adversely affect our business and operating results. Furthermore, in the event that any federal or state regulators were to expand the scope of applicable laws and regulations or their application to include the certain endusers and information service providers, then our business and operating results could also be adversely affected. The following existing federal and state laws could impact the growth and profitability of our business: • The Communications Act of 1934, as amended by the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (the “Act”), and the regulations promulgated by the Federal Communications Commission under Title II of the Act, may impose federal licensing, reporting and other regulatory obligations on the Company, particularly in light of the Company’s acquisition of Marchex Voice Services. • Wiretapping/electronic eavesdropping laws. • Federal and state telemarketing laws including the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, the Telemarketing Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. • Laws affecting telephone call recording and data protection, such as consent and personal data statutes. • The Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act may require that the Company undertake material modifications to its platforms and processes to permit wiretapping and other access for law enforcement personnel. • Under various Orders of the Federal Communications Commission, including its Report and Order and Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking in Docket Number WC 04-36, dated June 27, 2006, the Company may be required to make material retroactive and prospective contributions to funds intended to support Universal Service, Telecommunications Relay Service, Local Number Portability, the North American Numbering Plan and the budget of the Federal Communications Commission. • Laws in most states of the United States of America may require registration or licensing of one or more subsidiaries of the Company, and may impose additional taxes, fees or telecommunications surcharges on the provision of the Company’s services which the Company may not be able to pass through to customers. 29 Table of Contents Future regulation of search engines may adversely affect the commercial utility of our search marketing services. The FTC, has reviewed the way in which search engines disclose paid placements or paid inclusion practices to Internet users. In 2002, the FTC issued guidance recommending that all search engine companies ensure that all paid search results are clearly distinguished from non-paid results, that the use of paid inclusion is clearly and conspicuously explained and disclosed and that other disclosures are made to avoid misleading users about the possible effects of paid placement or paid inclusion listings on search results. Such disclosures if ultimately mandated by the FTC or voluntarily made by us may reduce the desirability of our paid placement and paid inclusion services. We believe that some users will conclude that paid search results are not subject to the same relevancy requirements as non-paid search results, and will view paid search results less favorably. If such FTC disclosure reduces the desirability of our paid placement and paid inclusion services, and “click-throughs” of our paid search results decrease, our business could be adversely affected. State and local governments may in the future be permitted to levy additional taxes on Internet access and electronic commerce transactions, which could result in a decrease in the level of usage of our services. In addition, we may be required to pay additional income, sales, or other taxes. On November 19, 2004, the federal government passed legislation placing a three-year ban on state and local governments’ imposition of new taxes on Internet access or electronic commerce transactions. On October 31, 2007, this ban was extended for another seven years. Unless the ban is further extended, state and local governments may begin to levy additional taxes on Internet access and electronic commerce transactions upon the legislation’s expiration in November 2014. An increase in taxes may make electronic commerce transactions less attractive for advertisers and businesses, which could result in a decrease in the level of usage of our services. Additionally, from time to time, various state, federal and other jurisdictional tax authorities undertake reviews of the Company and the Company’s filings. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company on occasion accrues charges for probable exposures. We cannot predict the outcome of any of these reviews. Risks Relating to Ownership of our Common Stock Our Class B common stock prices have been and are likely to continue to be highly volatile. The trading prices of our Class B common stock have been and are likely to continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. Since our initial public offering, the closing sale price of our Class B common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market (formerly, the Nasdaq National Market) ranged from $3.00 to $26.14 per share through December 31, 2009. Our stock prices may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, which may be the result of our business strategy or events beyond our control, including: • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents, by us or a competitor; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, financings, commercial relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • registration of additional shares of Class B common stock in connection with acquisitions; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • developments concerning our various strategic collaborations; • lawsuits initiated against us or lawsuits initiated by us; • announcements of acquisitions or technical innovations; • potential loss or reduced contributions from distribution partners or advertisers; 30 Table of Contents • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by analysts; • changes in the market valuations of similar companies; • changes in our industry and the overall economic environment; • volume of shares of Class B common stock available for public sale, including upon conversion of Class A common stock or upon exercise of stock options; • Class B common stock repurchases under our previously announced share repurchase program; • sales and purchases of stock by us or by our stockholders, including sales by certain of our executive officers and directors pursuant to written pre-determined selling and purchase plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and • short sales, hedging and other derivative transactions on shares of our Class B common stock. In addition, the stock market in general, and the Nasdaq Global Market and the market for online commerce companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the listed companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our Class B common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. Litigation against us, whether or not judgment is entered against us, could result in substantial costs and potentially economic loss, and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, any of which could seriously harm our financial condition. Additionally, there can be no assurance that an active trading market of our Class B common stock will be sustained. Our founding executive officers control the outcome of stockholder voting, and there may be an adverse effect on the price of our Class B common stock due to the disparate voting rights of our Class A common stock and our Class B common stock. As of December 31, 2009, Russell C. Horowitz, Ethan A. Caldwell, Peter Christothoulou and John Keister, our founding executive officers, beneficially owned 100% of the outstanding shares of our Class A common stock, which shares represented 92% of the combined voting power of all outstanding shares of our capital stock. These founding executive officers together control 93% of the combined voting power of all outstanding shares of our capital stock. The holders of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock have identical rights except that the holders of our Class B common stock are entitled to one vote per share, while holders of our Class A common stock are entitled to twenty-five votes per share on all matters to be voted on by stockholders. This concentration of control could be disadvantageous to our other stockholders with interests different from those of these founding executive officers. This difference in the voting rights of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock could adversely affect the price of our Class B common stock to the extent that investors or any potential future purchaser of our shares of Class B common stock give greater value to the superior voting rights of our Class A common stock. Further, as long as these founding executive officers have a controlling interest, they will continue to be able to elect all or a majority of our board of directors and generally be able to determine the outcome of all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. As a result, these founding executive officers will be in a position to continue to control all fundamental matters affecting our company, including any merger involving, sale of substantially all of the assets of, or change in control of, our company. The ability of these founding executive officers to control our company may result in our Class B common stock trading at a price lower than the price at which such stock would trade if these founding executive officers did not have a controlling interest in us. This control may deter or prevent a third party from acquiring us which could adversely affect the market price of our Class B common stock. 31 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions may limit the ability of another party to acquire us, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our certificate of incorporation, as amended, our by-laws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, these provisions could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Class B common stock. The following are examples of such provisions in our certificate of incorporation, as amended, or our by-laws: • the authorized number of our directors can be changed only by a resolution of our board of directors; • advance notice is required for proposals that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; • there are limitations on who may call stockholder meetings; and • our board of directors is authorized, without prior stockholder approval, to create and issue “blank check” preferred stock. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which provides, subject to enumerated exceptions, that if a person acquires 15% or more of our voting stock, the person is an “interested stockholder” and may not engage in “business combinations” with us for a period of three years from the time the person acquired 15% or more of our voting stock. The application of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company. We may not be able to continue to pay dividends on our common stock in the future which could impair the value of such stock. Under Delaware law, dividends to stockholders may be made only from the surplus of a company, or, in certain situations, from the net profits for the current fiscal year or the fiscal year before which the dividend is declared. We have initiated and paid a quarterly dividend on our common stock since November 2006. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to pay dividends in the future. Our ability to pay dividends in the future will depend on our financial results, liquidity and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 