ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Conseco and its businesses are subject to a number of risks including general business and financial risk factors. Any or all of such factors could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or results of operations of Conseco. In addition, please refer to the "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" included in "Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Consolidated Financial Condition and Results of Operations". The limited historical claims experience on our long-term care products could negatively impact our operations if our estimates prove wrong and we have not adequately set premium rates. In setting premium rates, we consider historical claims information and other factors, but we cannot predict future claims with certainty. This is particularly applicable to our long-term care insurance products, for which we have relatively limited historical claims experience. Long-term care products tend to have fewer claims than other health products such as Medicare supplement, but when claims are incurred, they tend to be much higher in dollar amount. Also, long-term care products have a much longer tail, meaning that claims are incurred much later in the life of the policy than most other supplemental health products. As a result of these traits, it is difficult to appropriately price this product. For our long-term care insurance, actual persistency in later policy durations that is higher than our persistency assumptions could have a negative impact on profitability. If these policies remain inforce longer than we assumed, then we could be required to make greater benefit payments than anticipated when the products were priced. Mortality is a critical factor influencing the length of time a claimant receives long-term care benefits. Mortality continues to improve for the general population, and life expectancy has increased. Improvements in actual mortality trends relative to assumptions may adversely affect our profitability. Our Bankers Life segment has offered long-term care insurance since 1985. The claims experience on our Bankers Life long-term care blocks has generally been lower than our pricing expectations. However, the persistency of these policies has been higher than our pricing expectations and this may result in higher benefit ratios in the future. The long-term care insurance businesses included in the Other Business in Run-off segment were acquired through acquisitions completed in 1996 and 1997. The experience on these acquired blocks has generally been worse than the acquired companies' original pricing expectations. We have received regulatory approvals for numerous premium rate increases in recent years pertaining to these blocks. Even with these rate increases, these blocks experienced benefit ratios of 191 percent in 2007, 134 percent in 2006 and 95 percent in 2005. If future claims experience proves to be worse than anticipated as our long-term care blocks continue to age, our financial results could be adversely affected. In addition, such rate increases may cause existing policyholders to allow their policies to lapse, resulting in reduced profitability. The results of operations of our insurance business will decline if our premium rates are not adequate or if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval to increase rates. We set the premium rates on our health insurance policies based on facts and circumstances known at the time we issue the policies and on assumptions about numerous variables, including the actuarial probability of a policyholder incurring a claim, the probable size of the claim, maintenance costs to administer the policies and the interest rate earned on our investment of premiums. In setting premium rates, we consider historical claims information, industry statistics, the rates of our competitors and other factors, but we cannot predict with certainty the future actual claims on our products. If our actual claims experience proves to be less favorable than we assumed and we are unable to raise our premium rates to the extent necessary to offset the unfavorable claims experience, our financial results may be adversely affected. We review the adequacy of our premium rates regularly and file proposed rate increases on our products when we believe existing premium rates are too low. It is possible that we will not be able to obtain approval for premium rate increases from currently pending requests or from future requests. If we are unable to raise our premium rates because we fail to obtain approval in one or more states, our financial results will be adversely affected. Moreover, in some instances, our ability to exit unprofitable lines of business is limited by the guaranteed renewal feature of the policy. Due to this feature, we cannot exit such business without regulatory approval, and accordingly, we may be required to continue to service those products at a loss for an extended period of time. Most of our long-term care business is guaranteed renewable, and, if 22 necessary rate increases were not approved, we would be required to recognize a loss and establish a premium deficiency reserve. During 2007, the financial statements of two of our subsidiaries prepared in accordance with statutory accounting practices prescribed or permitted by regulatory authorities reflected the establishment of asset adequacy and premium deficiency reserves related to long-term care policies. The asset adequacy and premium deficiency reserves related to health products for Washington National and Bankers Conseco Life Insurance Company were $57.8 million and $30.6 million, respectively, at December 31, 2007. Due to differences between statutory and GAAP insurance liabilities, we were not required to recognize a similar premium deficiency reserve in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. If, however, we are successful in obtaining regulatory approval to raise premium rates, the increased premium rates may reduce the volume of our new sales and cause existing policyholders to allow their policies to lapse. This could result in a significantly higher ratio of claim costs to premiums if healthier policyholders who get coverage elsewhere allow their policies to lapse, while policies of less healthy policyholders continue inforce. This would reduce our premium income and profitability in future periods. Most of our supplemental health policies allow us to increase premium rates when warranted by our actual claims experience. These rate increases must be approved by the applicable state insurance departments, and we are required to submit actuarial claims data to support the need for such rate increases. The re-rate application and approval process on supplemental health products is a normal recurring part of our business operations and reasonable rate increases are typically approved by the state departments as long as they are supported by actual claims experience and are not unusually large in either dollar amount or percentage increase. For policy types on which rate increases are a normal recurring event, our estimates of insurance liabilities assume we will be able to raise rates if experience on the blocks warrants such increases in the future. The benefit ratio for our long-term care products included in the Other Business in Run-off segment has increased in recent periods and was 191 percent during 2007. We will have to continue to raise rates or take other actions with respect to some of these policies or our financial results will be adversely affected. As a result of higher persistency in our long-term care block in the Bankers Life segment than assumed in the original pricing, our premium rates were too low. Accordingly, we began a program in 2006 to seek approval from regulatory authorities for rate increases on approximately 65 percent of this block. In addition, another round of increases was filed during the second and third quarters of 2007 on newer long-term care, home health care, and short-term care policies not included in the first round of rate increases. The policies in this round represent approximately 25 percent of the inforce block. As of December 31, 2007, all such filings had been submitted for regulatory approval, and approximately 38 percent of the amounts had been approved by regulators and implemented. However, it is possible that we will not be able to obtain approval for all or a portion of the premium rate increases from currently pending requests or future requests. If we are unable to obtain these rate increases, the profitability of these policies and the performance of this block of business could be adversely affected. In addition, such rate increases may reduce the volume of our new sales and cause existing policyholders to allow their policies to lapse, resulting in reduced profitability. We have implemented and will continue to implement from time to time and when actuarially justified, premium rate increases in our long-term care business. In some cases, we offer policyholders the opportunity to reduce their coverage amounts or accept non-forfeiture benefits as alternatives to increasing their premium rates. The financial impact of our rate increase actions could be adversely affected by policyholder anti-selection, meaning that policyholders who are less likely to incur claims may lapse their policies or reduce their benefits, while policyholders who are more likely to incur claims may maintain full coverage and accept their rate increase. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, and our business and stock price may be adversely affected if we have not adequately addressed the weakness or if we have other material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. We did not maintain effective controls over the accounting and disclosure of insurance policy benefits and the liabilities for insurance products. We identified a material weakness in internal controls over the actuarial reporting processes related to the design of controls to ensure the completeness and accuracy of certain inforce policies in our Bankers Life segment, Conseco Insurance Group segment, and Other Business in Run-off segment. These control deficiencies resulted in adjustments to insurance policy benefits and the liabilities for insurance products in the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2007. As a result of the errors we identified related to these deficiencies during remediation procedures performed in 2007, Conseco has restated its financial statements for the 23 years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, along with affected Selected Consolidated Financial Data for 2004 and 2003, and quarterly financial information for 2006 and the first three quarters of 2007. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price of our stock could decline significantly, we may be unable to obtain additional financing to operate and expand our business, and our business and financial condition could be harmed. In addition, we face the risk that, notwithstanding our efforts to date to identify and remedy all material errors in those financial statements, we may discover other errors in the future; and that the cost of identifying and remedying the errors and remediating our material weakness in internal controls will be high and have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operation. See Item 9A of this annual report for additional information. Our reserves for future insurance policy benefits and claims may prove to be inadequate, requiring us to increase liabilities which results in reduced net income and shareholders' equity. Liabilities for insurance products are calculated using management's best judgments, based on our past experience and standard actuarial tables, of mortality, morbidity, lapse rates, investment experience and expense levels. For our health insurance business, we establish an active life reserve, a liability for due and unpaid claims, claims in the course of settlement, and incurred but not reported claims, and a reserve for the present value of amounts on incurred claims not yet due. We establish reserves based on assumptions and estimates of factors either established at the fresh-start date for business inforce then or considered when we set premium rates for business written after that date. Many factors can affect these reserves and liabilities, such as economic and social conditions, inflation, hospital and pharmaceutical costs, changes in life expectancy, regulatory actions, changes in doctrines of legal liability and extra-contractual damage awards. Therefore, the reserves and liabilities we establish are necessarily based on estimates, assumptions and prior years' statistics. It is possible that actual claims will materially exceed our reserves and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have incurred significant losses beyond our estimates as a result of actual claim costs and persistency of our long-term care business included in the Other Business in Run-off segment. In prior periods, we have increased our estimates of incurred claims on this block due to prior period deficiencies, including an increase of $118 million in the second quarter of 2007, $22 million in the first quarter of 2007 and $54.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2006. Our financial performance depends significantly upon the extent to which our actual claims experience and future expenses are consistent with the assumptions we used in setting our reserves. If our assumptions with respect to future claims are incorrect, and our reserves prove to be insufficient to cover our actual losses and expenses, we would be required to increase our liabilities, and our financial results could be adversely affected. We may be required to accelerate the amortization of the cost of policies produced or the value of policies inforce at the Effective Date. Cost of policies produced represent the costs that vary with, and are primarily related to, producing new insurance business. The value of policies inforce at the Effective Date represents the value assigned to the right to receive future cash flows from contracts existing at September 10, 2003. The balances of these accounts are amortized over the expected lives of the underlying insurance contracts. Management, on an ongoing basis, tests these accounts recorded on our balance sheet to determine if these amounts are recoverable under current assumptions. In addition, we regularly review the estimates and assumptions underlying these accounts for those products for which we amortize the cost of policies produced or the value of insurance inforce at the Effective Date in proportion to gross profits or gross margins. If facts and circumstances change, these tests and reviews could lead to reduction in the balance of those accounts that could have an adverse effect on the results of our operations and our financial condition. Our net income and revenues will suffer if policyholder surrender levels differ significantly from our assumptions. Surrenders of our annuities and life insurance products can result in losses and decreased revenues if surrender levels differ significantly from assumed levels. At December 31, 2007, approximately 18 percent of our total insurance liabilities, or approximately $4.8 billion, could be surrendered by the policyholder without penalty. The surrender charges that are imposed on our fixed rate annuities typically decline during a penalty period, which ranges from five to twelve years after the date the policy is issued. Surrenders and redemptions could require us to dispose of assets earlier than we had planned, possibly at a loss. Moreover, surrenders and redemptions require faster amortization of either the acquisition costs or the commissions associated with the original sale of a product, thus reducing our net income. We believe policyholders are generally more likely to surrender their policies if they believe the issuer is having financial difficulties, or if they are able to reinvest the policy's value at a higher rate of return in an alternative insurance or investment product. 24 Our investment portfolio is subject to several risks that may diminish the value of our invested assets and negatively impact our profitability. The value of our investment portfolio is subject to numerous factors, which are difficult to predict, and are often beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: o Changes in interest rates can reduce the value of our investments as further discussed in the risk factor entitled "Changing interest rates may adversely affect our results of operations". o Changes in patterns of relative liquidity in the capital markets for various asset classes. o Changes in the ability of issuers to make timely repayments on actively managed fixed maturity investments can reduce the value of our investments. This risk is significantly greater with respect to below-investment grade securities, which comprised 8.0 percent of our actively managed fixed maturity investments as of December 31, 2007. o Changes in the estimated timing of receipt of cash flows. For example, our structured security investments, which comprised 23 percent of our actively managed fixed maturity investments at December 31, 2007, are subject to risks relating to variable prepayment on the assets underlying such securities, such as mortgage loans. When structured securities prepay faster than expected, investment income may be adversely affected due to the acceleration of the amortization of purchase premiums or the inability to reinvest at comparable yields in lower interest rate environments. o Changes in the relative risk premium required in the market for a given level of risk. We have recorded writedowns of fixed maturity investments, equity securities and other invested assets as a result of conditions which caused us to conclude a decline in the fair value of the investment was other than temporary as follows: $106.7 million in 2007 (including $73.7 million of writedowns of investments (which were subsequently transferred pursuant to a coinsurance agreement as further discussed in the note to the consolidated financial statements entitled "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies") as a result of our intent not to hold investments for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in value); $22.4 million in 2006; and $14.7 million in 2005. Our investment portfolio is subject to the risks of further declines in realizable value. However, we attempt to mitigate this risk through the diversification and active management of our portfolio. In the event of substantial product surrenders or policy claims, we may choose to maintain highly liquid, and potentially lower-yielding, assets, or to sell assets at a loss, thereby eroding the performance of our portfolio. Because a substantial portion of our net income is derived from returns on our investment portfolio, significant losses in the portfolio may have a direct and materially adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, losses on our investment portfolio could reduce the investment returns that we are able to credit to our customers of certain products, thereby impacting our sales and eroding our financial performance. Changing interest rates may adversely affect our results of operations. Our profitability is affected by fluctuating interest rates. While we monitor the interest rate environment and, in some cases, employ hedging strategies to mitigate such impact, our financial results could be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. Our spread-based insurance and annuity business is subject to several inherent risks arising from movements in interest rates, especially if we fail to anticipate or respond to such movements. First, interest rate changes can cause compression of our net spread between interest earned on investments and interest credited to customer deposits. Our ability to adjust for such a compression is limited by the guaranteed minimum rates that we must credit to policyholders on certain products, as well as the terms on most of our other products that limit reductions in the crediting rates to pre-established intervals. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 38 percent of our insurance liabilities were subject to interest rates that may be reset annually; 47 percent had a fixed explicit interest rate for the duration of the contract; 11 percent had credited rates that approximate the income we earn; and the remainder had no explicit interest rates. Second, if interest rate changes produce an unanticipated increase in surrenders of our spread-based products, we may be forced to sell invested assets at a loss in order to fund such surrenders. Third, the profits from many non-spread-based insurance products, such as long-term care policies, can be adversely affected when interest rates decline because we may be unable to reinvest the cash from 25 premiums received at the interest rates anticipated when we sold the policies. Finally, changes in interest rates can have significant effects on the market value and performance of our investments in general and specifically on the performance of our structured securities portfolio, including collateralized mortgage obligations ("CMOs"), as a result of changes in the prepayment rate of the loans underlying such securities. We employ asset/liability strategies that are designed to mitigate the effects of interest rate changes on our profitability but do not currently extensively employ derivative instruments for this purpose. We may not be successful in implementing these strategies and achieving adequate investment spreads. We use computer models to simulate our cash flows expected from existing business under various interest rate scenarios. These simulations help us measure the potential gain or loss in fair value of our interest-sensitive financial instruments. With such estimates, we seek to manage the relationship between the duration of our assets and the expected duration of our liabilities. When the estimated durations of assets and liabilities are similar, exposure to interest rate risk is minimized because a change in the value of assets should be largely offset by a change in the value of liabilities. At December 31, 2007, the duration of our fixed maturity investments (as modified to reflect prepayments and potential calls) was approximately 7.6 years, and the duration of our insurance liabilities was approximately 7.9 years. We estimate that our fixed maturity securities and short-term investments, net of corresponding changes in insurance acquisition costs, would decline in fair value by approximately $490 million if interest rates were to increase by 10 percent from rates as of December 31, 2007. This compares to a decline in fair value of $515 million based on amounts and rates at December 31, 2006. The calculations involved in our computer simulations incorporate numerous assumptions, require significant estimates and assume an immediate change in interest rates without any management reaction to such change. Consequently, potential changes in the values of our financial instruments indicated by the simulations will likely be different from the actual changes experienced under given interest rate scenarios, and the differences may be material. Because we actively manage our investments and liabilities, our net exposure to interest rates can vary over time. General market conditions affect investments and investment income. The performance of our investment portfolio depends in part upon the level of and changes in interest rates, risk spreads, real estate values, market volatility, the performance of the economy in general, the performance of the specific obligors included in our portfolio and other factors that are beyond our control. Changes in these factors can affect our net investment income in any period, and such changes can be substantial. Financial market conditions can also affect our realized and unrealized investment gains (losses). During periods of rising interest rates, the fair values of our investments will typically decline. Conversely, during periods of falling interest rates, the fair values of our investments will typically rise. Concentration of our investment portfolios in any particular sector of the economy may have an adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. The concentration of our investment portfolios in any particular industry, group of related industries, asset classes (such as residential mortgage-backed securities and other asset-backed securities), or geographic area could have an adverse effect on its value and performance and, consequently, on our results of operations and financial position. While Conseco seeks to mitigate this risk by having a broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that have a negative impact on any particular industry, group of related industries or geographic area may have an adverse effect on the investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated. Litigation and regulatory investigations are inherent in our business, may harm our financial strength and reputation and negatively impact our financial results. Insurance companies historically have been subject to substantial litigation. In addition to the traditional policy claims associated with their businesses, insurance companies face policyholder suits and class action suits. We also face significant risks related to regulatory investigations and actions. The litigation and regulatory investigations we are, have been, or may become subject to include matters related to sales or underwriting practices, payment of contingent or other sales commissions, claim payments and procedures, product design, product disclosure, administration, additional premium charges for premiums paid on a periodic basis, calculation of cost of insurance charges, changes to certain non-guaranteed policy features, denial or delay of benefits, charging excessive or impermissible fees on products and recommending unsuitable products to customers. Certain of the Company's insurance policies allow or require us to make changes based on experience to certain non-guaranteed elements such as cost of insurance charges, expense loads, credited interest rates and policyholder bonuses. The Company intends to make changes to certain non-guaranteed elements in the future. In some instances in the past, such action has resulted in litigation and similar litigation may arise in the future. The Company's 26 exposure, if any, arising from any such action cannot presently be determined. Our pending legal and regulatory actions include matters that are specific to us, as well as matters faced by other insurance companies. State insurance departments focus on sales and claims payment practices and product issues in their market conduct examinations. Negotiated settlements of class action and other lawsuits have had a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations of our insurance companies. We are, in the ordinary course of our business, a plaintiff or defendant in actions arising out of our insurance business, including class actions and reinsurance disputes, and, from time to time, we are also involved in various governmental and administrative proceedings and investigations and inquiries such as information requests, subpoenas and books and record examinations, from state, federal and other authorities. The ultimate outcome of these lawsuits and investigations, however, cannot be predicted with certainty. In the event of an unfavorable outcome in one or more of these matters, the ultimate liability may be in excess of liabilities we have established and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We could also suffer significant reputational harm as a result of such litigation, regulatory action or investigation which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. For a description of current legal proceedings, see note 9 of the consolidated financial statements. Our business is subject to extensive regulation, which limits our operating flexibility and could result in our insurance subsidiaries being placed under regulatory control or otherwise negatively impact our financial results. Our insurance business is subject to extensive regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to state insurance laws that establish supervisory agencies. Such agencies have broad administrative powers including the power to: o grant and revoke business licenses; o regulate and supervise sales practices and market conduct; o establish guaranty associations; o license agents; o approve policy forms; o approve premium rates for some lines of business such as long-term care and Medicare supplement; o establish reserve requirements; o prescribe the form and content of required financial statements and reports; o determine the reasonableness and adequacy of statutory capital and surplus; o perform financial, market conduct and other examinations; o define acceptable accounting principles; and o regulate the types and amounts of permitted investments. The regulations issued by state insurance agencies can be complex and subject to differing interpretations. If a state insurance regulatory agency determines that one of our insurance company subsidiaries is not in compliance with applicable regulations, the subsidiary is subject to various potential administrative remedies including, without limitation, monetary penalties, restrictions on the subsidiary's ability to do business in that state and a return of a portion of policyholder premiums. In addition, regulatory action or investigations could cause us to suffer significant reputational harm, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In connection with monitoring the financial condition of insurers, certain state insurance departments have requested additional information from two of the Company's insurance subsidiaries, Conseco Senior and Conseco Life, because each such insurance subsidiary has incurred statutory losses in a 12 month period in excess of 50 percent of its capital and surplus. The statutory losses of Conseco Life are primarily attributable to a litigation settlement. For further information related to this case, refer to the caption entitled "Cost of Insurance Litigation" included in the note to our consolidated financial statements entitled "Commitments and Contingencies". The statutory losses of Conseco Senior are primarily attributable to the adverse development of prior period claim reserves, an increase in claims incurred in 2006 and 2007 and strengthening of statutory active life reserves using the prospective unlocking method (as permitted by insurance regulators), all of which related to long-term care policies. Based on our discussions with state insurance departments, we do not expect the regulators to take any actions against Conseco Senior or Conseco Life that would have a material adverse effect on the financial position or results of operations of these companies. Our insurance subsidiaries are also subject to RBC requirements. These requirements were designed to evaluate the adequacy of statutory capital and surplus in relation to investment and insurance risks associated with asset quality, mortality 27 and morbidity, asset and liability matching and other business factors. The requirements are used by states as an early warning tool to discover companies that may be weakly-capitalized for the purpose of initiating regulatory action. Generally, if an insurer's RBC falls below specified levels, the insurer is subject to different degrees of regulatory action depending upon the magnitude of the deficiency. The 2007 statutory annual statements filed with the state insurance regulators of each of our insurance subsidiaries reflected total adjusted capital in excess of the levels subjecting the subsidiaries to any regulatory action. However, the RBC ratio of Conseco Senior, which has experienced losses on its long-term care business in our Other Business in Run-off segment, was near the level at which it would have been required to submit a comprehensive plan to insurance regulators proposing corrective actions aimed at improving its capital position. In order to avoid triggering the trend test with respect to Conseco Senior, we elected to contribute $202.0 million to the capital and surplus of Conseco Senior in 2007, including $56.0 million which was accrued at December 31, 2007, and paid in February 2008. We were under no obligation to make such capital contributions to Conseco Senior, and we may determine not to make additional contributions in the future. No assurances can be given that we will make future contributions or otherwise make capital available to our insurance subsidiaries, including Conseco Senior. The value of our deferred tax asset may be impaired to the extent our future profits are less than we have projected; and such impairment may have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and our financial condition. As of December 31, 2007, we had deferred tax assets of $1,909.4 million. During the fourth quarter of 2007, we increased the deferred tax valuation allowance by $68.0 million primarily related to losses incurred in 2007. Our income tax expense includes deferred income taxes arising from temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, capital loss carryforwards and NOLs. We evaluate the realizability of our deferred income tax assets and assess the need for a valuation allowance on an ongoing basis. In evaluating our deferred income tax assets, we consider whether it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax assets will be realized. The ultimate realization of our deferred income tax assets depends upon generating sufficient future taxable income during the periods in which our temporary differences become deductible and before our capital loss carryforwards and NOLs expire. This assessment requires significant judgment. However, recovery is dependent on achieving such projections and failure to do so would result in an increase in the valuation allowance in a future period. Any future increase in the valuation allowance would result in additional income tax expense and reduce shareholders' equity, and such an increase could have a material adverse affect upon our earnings in the future. Our results of operations may be negatively impacted if our initiatives to restructure our insurance operations are unsuccessful or if our planned conversions result in valuation differences. Our Conseco Insurance Group segment has experienced decreases in premium revenues and new annualized premiums in recent years as well as expense levels that exceed product pricing expense assumptions. We have implemented several initiatives to improve operating results, including: (i) focusing sales efforts on higher margin products; (ii) reducing operating expenses by eliminating or reducing marketing costs of certain products; (iii) streamlining administrative procedures and reducing personnel; and (iv) increasing retention rates on our more profitable blocks of inforce business. Many of our initiatives address issues resulting from the substantial number of acquisitions of our predecessor. Between 1982 and 1997, our predecessor completed 19 transactions involving the acquisitions of 44 separate insurance companies. Our efforts involve improvements to our policy administration procedures and significant systems conversions, such as the elimination of duplicate processing systems for similar business. These initiatives may result in unforeseen expenses, complications or delays, and may be inadequate to address all issues. Some of these initiatives have only recently begun to be executed, and may not ultimately be successfully completed. While our future operating performance depends greatly on the success of these efforts, even if we successfully implement these measures, they alone may not sufficiently improve our results of operations. Conversions to new systems can result in valuation differences between the prior system and the new system. We have recognized such differences in the past. During the fourth quarter of 2005, our conversion to a seriatim-based valuation system to determine reserves for the long-term care block of business in run-off resulted in decreases to insurance liabilities of approximately $38 million. Our planned conversions could result in future valuation adjustments, and there can be no assurance that these adjustments will not have a material adverse effect on future earnings. Our financial position may be negatively impacted if we are unable to achieve our goals for 2008. We have identified a number of goals for 2008, including maintaining strong growth at Bankers Life and Colonial Penn, improving earnings stability and reducing volatility, improving the performance of our long-term care business in the Other Business in Run-off segment and reducing our enterprise exposure to long-term care business. The most consistent 28 components of our operations in recent years have been Bankers Life and Colonial Penn, and the continued growth and profitability of those businesses is critical to our overall results. By contrast, the long-term care business in our Other Business in Run-off segment has been very volatile and has produced substantial losses in the last two years. We are continuing to pursue a number of measures designed to improve the performance of that segment, including aggressively seeking actuarially justified rate increases and improving claims management. These measures may be inadequate to address the issues of that segment. In addition, our efforts to improve claims management by changing claim adjudication procedures have resulted in increased complaints from our policyholders, and, in some cases, have resulted in inquiries from state regulators. The relative size and volatility of our combined long-term care business presents a risk that our results of operations will be materially impacted by the changes in the performance of that business, and we are exploring ways to reduce our enterprise exposure to the long-term care business. The failure to achieve these and our other goals for 2008 could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and the price of our common stock. A failure to improve the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries or a decline from the current ratings could cause us to experience decreased sales, increased agent attrition and increased policyholder lapses and redemptions. An important competitive factor for our insurance subsidiaries is the ratings they receive from nationally recognized rating organizations. Agents, insurance brokers and marketing companies who market our products, and prospective policyholders view ratings as an important factor in evaluating an insurer's products. This is especially true for annuity, interest-sensitive life insurance and long-term care products. The current financial strength ratings of our primary insurance subsidiaries (other than Conseco Senior) from A.M. Best, S&P and Moody's are "B+ (Good)," "BB+" and "Baa3," respectively. The ratings of Conseco Senior from A.M. Best, S&P and Moody's are "C++ (Marginal)," "CCC-" and "Caa1," respectively. The "B+" rating and the "C++" rating from A.M. Best are the sixth and ninth highest, respectively, of sixteen possible ratings. The "BB+" rating and the "CCC-" rating from S&P are the eleventh and nineteenth highest, respectively, of twenty-one possible ratings. The "Baa3" rating and the "Caa1" rating from Moody's are the tenth and seventeenth highest of twenty-one possible ratings. Most of our competitors have higher financial strength ratings and, to be competitive over the long term, we believe it is critical to achieve improved ratings. If we fail to achieve and maintain an "A" category rating from A.M. Best or if our ratings are downgraded, we may experience declining sales of certain of our insurance products, defections of our independent and career sales force, and increased policies being redeemed or allowed to lapse. These events would adversely affect our financial results, which could then lead to ratings downgrades. Competition from companies that have greater market share, higher ratings, greater financial resources and stronger brand recognition, may impair our ability to retain existing customers and sales representatives, attract new customers and sales representatives and maintain or improve our financial results. The supplemental health insurance, annuity and individual life insurance markets are highly competitive. Competitors include other life and accident and health insurers, commercial banks, thrifts, mutual funds and broker-dealers. Our principal competitors vary by product line. Our main competitors for agent sold long-term care insurance products include Genworth Financial, John Hancock Financial Services and MetLife. Our main competitors for agent sold Medicare supplement insurance products include United HealthCare, Blue Cross and Blue Shield Plans, Mutual of Omaha and United American. In some of our product lines, such as life insurance and fixed annuities, we have a relatively small market share. Even in some of the lines in which we are one of the top five writers, our market share is relatively small. For example, while our Bankers Life segment ranked fourth in annualized premiums of individual long-term care insurance in 2007 with a market share of approximately six percent, the top three writers of individual long-term care insurance had annualized premiums with a combined market share of approximately 60 percent during the period. In addition, while our Bankers Life segment was ranked fourth in direct premiums earned for individual Medicare supplement insurance in 2007 with a market share of 3.8 percent, the top writer of individual Medicare supplement insurance had direct premiums with a market share of 14.1 percent during the period. Virtually all of our major competitors have higher financial strength ratings than we do. Many of our competitors are larger companies that have greater capital, technological and marketing resources and have access to capital at a lower cost. Recent industry consolidation, including business combinations among insurance and other financial services companies, has resulted in larger competitors with even greater financial resources. Furthermore, changes in federal law have narrowed the 29 historical separation between banks and insurance companies, enabling traditional banking institutions to enter the insurance and annuity markets and further increase competition. This increased competition may harm our ability to maintain or improve our profitability. In addition, because the actual cost of products is unknown when they are sold, we are subject to competitors who may sell a product at a price that does not cover its actual cost. Accordingly, if we do not also lower our prices for similar products, we may lose market share to these competitors. If we lower our prices to maintain market share, our profitability will decline. We must attract and retain sales representatives to sell our insurance and annuity products. Strong competition exists among insurance and financial services companies for sales representatives. We compete for sales representatives primarily on the basis of our financial position, financial strength ratings, support services, compensation, products and product features. Our competitiveness for such agents also depends upon the relationships we develop with these agents. Our Predecessor's bankruptcy continues to be an adverse factor in developing relationships with certain agents. If we are unable to attract and retain sufficient numbers of sales representatives to sell our products, our ability to compete and our revenues and profitability would suffer. Volatility in the securities markets, and other economic factors, may adversely affect our business, particularly our sales of certain life insurance products and annuities. Fluctuations in the securities markets and other economic factors may adversely affect sales and/or policy surrenders of our annuities and life insurance policies. For example, volatility in the equity markets may deter potential purchasers from investing in equity-indexed annuities and may cause current policyholders to surrender their policies for the cash value or to reduce their investments. In addition, significant or unusual volatility in the general level of interest rates could negatively impact sales and/or lapse rates on certain types of insurance products. Our ability to meet our obligations may be constrained by our subsidiaries' ability to distribute cash to us. Conseco, Inc. and CDOC, Inc. ("CDOC"), our wholly owned subsidiary and a guarantor under our $875.0 million secured credit agreement (the "Second Amended Credit Facility"), are holding companies with no business operations of their own; they depend on their operating subsidiaries for cash to make principal and interest payments on debt and to pay administrative expenses and income taxes. Conseco and CDOC receive cash from insurance subsidiaries, consisting of dividends and distributions, principal and interest payments on surplus debentures and tax-sharing payments, as well as cash from our non-insurance subsidiaries consisting of dividends, distributions, loans and advances. A deterioration in the financial condition, earnings or cash flow of the significant subsidiaries of Conseco or CDOC for any reason could hinder the ability of such subsidiaries to pay cash dividends or other disbursements to Conseco and/or CDOC which, in turn, would limit the ability of Conseco and/or CDOC to meet debt service requirements and satisfy other financial obligations. In addition, we may elect to contribute additional capital to certain insurance subsidiaries to strengthen their surplus and this could affect the ability of our top tier insurance subsidiary to pay dividends. Accordingly, this would limit our ability to meet debt service requirements and satisfy other holding company financial obligations. The obligations under our Second Amended Credit Facility are guaranteed by our current and future domestic subsidiaries, other than our insurance subsidiaries and certain immaterial subsidiaries. CDOC's guarantee under the Second Amended Credit Facility is secured by a lien on substantially all of the assets of the guarantors, including the stock of our top tier insurance company, Conseco Life Insurance Company of Texas. If we fail to make the required payments, do not meet the financial covenants or otherwise default on the terms of the Second Amended Credit Facility, the stock of Conseco Life Insurance Company of Texas, which at December 31, 2007 owned the stock of all of our other insurance subsidiaries, could be transferred to the lender under such facility. Any such transfer would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and would have a significant adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. Insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of dividends or other payments by our insurance subsidiaries to parent companies if they determine that such payment could be adverse to our policyholders or contract holders. Otherwise, the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends is subject to state insurance department regulations. Insurance regulations generally permit dividends to be paid from statutory earned surplus of the insurance company without regulatory approval for any 12-month period in amounts equal to the greater of (or in a few states, the lesser of): (i) statutory net gain from operations or statutory net income for the prior year; or (ii) 10 percent of statutory capital and surplus as of the end of the preceding year. Any dividends in excess of these levels require the approval of the director or commissioner of the 30 applicable state insurance department. All of the dividends we plan to have our insurance subsidiaries pay in 2008 will require regulatory approval. In accordance with orders from the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation, Conseco Senior may not distribute funds to any affiliate or shareholder unless such distributions have been approved by the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation and Washington National may not make similar distributions without prior notice to the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation. In addition, the RBC and other capital requirements described below can also limit, in certain circumstances, the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends. Certain states have established minimum capital requirements for insurance companies licensed to do business in their state. These additional requirements generally have not had a significant impact on the Company's insurance subsidiaries, but the capital requirements in Florida have caused Conseco Health to maintain a higher level of capital and surplus than it would otherwise maintain and have thus limited its ability to pay dividends. In addition, although we are under no obligation to do so, we may elect to contribute additional capital to strengthen the surplus of certain insurance subsidiaries. Any election regarding the contribution of additional capital to our insurance subsidiaries could affect the ability of our top tier insurance subsidiary to pay dividends. The ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends is also impacted by various criteria established by rating agencies to maintain or receive higher ratings and by the capital levels that we target for our insurance subsidiaries. During 2007, we made capital contributions of $48.0 million (including $25.0 million which was accrued at December 31, 2007, and paid in February 2008) to Conseco Life in an effort to meet such criteria and our targeted capital level for this subsidiary. The following table sets forth the aggregate amount of dividends and other distributions that our insurance subsidiaries paid to us in each of the last two fiscal years (dollars in millions): Years ended December 31, ------------------------ 2007 2006 ---- ---- Dividends................................................................... $ 50.0 $ 72.5 Surplus debenture interest.................................................. 69.9 68.2 Fees for services provided pursuant to service agreements................... 92.9 89.4 Tax sharing payments........................................................ 91.5 (5.5) ------ ------ Total paid................................................................ $304.3 $224.6 ====== ====== Federal and state legislation could adversely affect the financial performance of our insurance operations. During recent years, the health insurance industry has experienced substantial changes, including those caused by healthcare legislation. Recent federal and state legislation and pending legislative proposals concerning healthcare reform contain features that could severely limit, or eliminate, our ability to vary pricing terms or apply medical underwriting standards to individuals, thereby potentially increasing our benefit ratios and adversely impacting our financial results. In particular, Medicare reform could affect our ability to price or sell our products or profitably maintain our blocks in force. For example, the Medicare Advantage program provides incentives for health plans to offer managed care plans to seniors. The growth of managed care plans under this program could decrease sales of the traditional Medicare supplement products we sell. Proposals currently pending in Congress and some state legislatures may also affect our financial results. These proposals include the implementation of minimum consumer protection standards in all long-term care policies, including: guaranteed premium rates; protection against inflation; limitations on waiting periods for pre-existing conditions; setting standards for sales practices for long-term care insurance; and guaranteed consumer access to information about insurers, including information regarding lapse and replacement rates for policies and the percentage of claims denied. Enactment of any proposal that would limit the amount we can charge for our products, such as guaranteed premium rates, or that would increase the benefits we must pay, such as limitations on waiting periods, or that would otherwise increase the costs of our business, could adversely affect our financial results. 31 Our Second Amended Credit Facility contains various restrictive covenants and required financial ratios that limit our operating flexibility; our current credit ratings may adversely affect our ability to access capital and the cost of such capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2007, we had $865.5 million principal amount of debt outstanding under our Second Amended Credit Facility. The Second Amended Credit Facility imposes a number of covenants and financial ratios as defined in the Second Amended Credit Facility that we must meet or maintain, including: o a debt to total capitalization ratio; o an interest coverage ratio; o an aggregate RBC ratio; and o a combined statutory capital and surplus level. At December 31, 2007, we were in compliance with all of the Second Amended Credit Facility's covenants and financial ratios. Although our forecasts indicate we will meet and/or maintain all of the Second Amended Credit Facility's covenants and financial ratios, our ability to do so may be affected by events beyond our control. Our Second Amended Credit Facility also imposes restrictions that limit our flexibility to plan for and react to changes in the economy and industry, thereby increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. These restrictions include limitations on our ability to: o incur additional indebtedness; o transfer or sell assets; o enter into mergers or other business combinations; o pay cash dividends or repurchase stock; and o make investments and capital expenditures. S&P has assigned a "B+" rating on our senior secured debt with a negative outlook. In S&P's view, an obligation rated "B+" is more vulnerable to nonpayment than obligations rated "BB", but has the capacity to meet its financial commitment on the obligation. Adverse business, financial or economic conditions would likely impair the obligator's capacity or willingness to meet its financial commitment on the obligation. S&P has a total of twenty-two separate categories rating senior debt, ranging from "AAA (Extremely Strong)" to "D (Payment Default)." A "B+" rating is the fourteenth highest rating. Moody's has assigned a "Ba3" rating on our senior secured debt with a negative outlook. In Moody's view, an obligation rated "Ba3" is judged to have speculative elements and is subject to substantial credit risk. Moody's has a total of twenty-one separate categories in which to rate senior debt, ranging from "Aaa (Exceptional)" to "C (Lowest Rated)." A "Ba3" rating is the thirteenth highest rating. A negative outlook by S&P and Moody's is an opinion regarding the likely direction of a rating over the medium term. If we were to require additional capital, either to refinance our existing indebtedness or for any other reason, our current senior debt ratings, as well as economic conditions in the credit markets generally, could restrict our access to and the cost of such capital. Tax law changes could adversely affect our insurance product sales and profitability. We sell deferred annuities and some forms of life insurance that are attractive, in part, because policyholders generally are not subject to United States Federal income tax on increases in policy values until some form of distribution is made. Congress has enacted legislation to lower marginal tax rates, to reduce the federal estate tax gradually over a ten-year period (with total elimination of the federal estate tax in 2010) and to increase contributions that may be made to individual retirement accounts and 401(k) accounts. While these tax law changes will expire at the beginning of 2011 absent future congressional action, they could in the interim diminish the appeal of our annuity and life insurance products because the benefit of tax deferral is lessened when tax rates are lower and because fewer people may purchase these products when they can contribute more to individual retirement accounts and 401(k) accounts. Additionally, Congress has considered, from time to time, other possible changes to U.S. tax laws, including elimination of the tax deferral on the accretion of value within certain annuities and life insurance products. Such a change would make these products less attractive to prospective purchasers and therefore would likely cause our sales of these products to decline. 32 We face risk with respect to our reinsurance agreements. We transfer exposure to certain risks to others through reinsurance arrangements. Under these arrangements, other insurers assume a portion of our losses and expenses associated with reported and unreported claims in exchange for a portion of policy premiums. The availability, amount and cost of reinsurance depend on general market conditions and may vary significantly. As of December 31, 2007, our reinsurance receivables totaled $3.6 billion. Our ceded life insurance inforce totaled $14.7 billion. Our nine largest reinsurers accounted for 89 percent of our ceded life insurance inforce. We face credit risk with respect to reinsurance. When we obtain reinsurance, we are still liable for those transferred risks if the reinsurer cannot meet its obligations. Therefore, the inability of our reinsurers to meet their financial obligations may require us to increase liabilities, thereby reducing our net income and shareholders' equity. Our insurance subsidiaries may be required to pay assessments to fund other companies' policyholder losses or liabilities and this may negatively impact our financial results. The solvency or guaranty laws of most states in which an insurance company does business may require that company to pay assessments up to certain prescribed limits to fund policyholder losses or liabilities of other insurance companies that become insolvent. Insolvencies of insurance companies increase the possibility that these assessments may be required. These assessments may be deferred or forgiven under most guaranty laws if they would threaten an insurer's financial strength and, in certain instances, may be offset against future premium taxes. We cannot estimate the likelihood and amount of future assessments. Although past assessments have not been material, if there were a number of large insolvencies, future assessments could be material and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. On July 3, 2007, we received written comments from the staff of the Division of Corporation Finance of the SEC (the "SEC staff") relating to our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 and our Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2007. The one remaining unresolved comment relates to the release of reserves totaling $19.3 million related to the return of premium benefit on specified disease policies during the first quarter of 2007. As described in our Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2007, we determined that the coding in our administrative system related to policies with the return of premium rider was inaccurate resulting in an overstatement of prior reserves. The SEC staff has requested an explanation as to why the reserve release was recorded in the first three months of 2007 rather than in the period in which the inaccurate coding occurred. We have provided the SEC staff with our evaluation of the out-of-period adjustment and the basis upon which we concluded we were not required to restate our previously filed financial statements based on the guidance of Staff Accounting Bulletin 99 "Materiality." Subsequent to providing the evaluation of out-of-period adjustments to the SEC staff, we identified additional errors in our previously filed financial statements. On February 25, 2008, we announced that due to the significance of those errors, we would restate our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, along with affected selected Consolidated Financial Data for 2004 and 2003, and quarterly financial information for 2006 and the first three quarters of 2007. In conjunction with the restatement process, we also corrected previously identified errors, including the $19.3 million reserve correction related to return of premium benefits on specified disease policies that is the subject of the SEC staff's unresolved comment. For further information on these and other restatement adjustments, refer to the notes to the consolidated financial statements entitled "Restatement of Previously Issued Financial Statements" and "Restated Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)". With the completion of the restated financial statements included in this filing, the SEC staff will consider resolving the remaining open comment. 