Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition and operating results can be affected by a number of factors, including those listed below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. Any of these risks could also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or the price of our common stock or other securities. We have incurred operating losses in the past and we may incur losses in future periods. We generated net income of $7.2 million in fiscal 2008, however incurred net losses of $21.9 million in fiscal 2007 and $24.5 million in fiscal 2006. We may incur losses and negative cash flows in future periods. In order to sustain profitability and positive cash flows from operations, we must further reduce operating expenses and/or increase our revenues. We have completed a series of cost reduction actions which have improved our operating cost structure, and we will continue to perform additional actions, when necessary. These expense reductions alone may not allow us to sustain the profitability we achieved in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. Our ability to achieve the necessary revenue growth will depend on increased demand for network infrastructure equipment that incorporates our products, which in turn depends primarily on the level of capital spending by communications service providers and enterprises, the level of which may decrease due to general economic conditions, and uncertainty, over which we have no control. We may not be successful in achieving the necessary revenue growth or the expected expense reductions. Moreover, we may be unable to sustain past or expected future expense reductions in subsequent periods. We may not be able to sustain the profitability achieved in fiscal 2008. 14 Table of Contents We have substantial cash requirements to fund our operations, research and development efforts and capital expenditures. Our capital resources are limited and capital needed for our business may not be available when we need it. For fiscal 2008, we generated $26.7 million in cash from operating activities compared to net cash used in operating activities of $10.0 million in fiscal 2007 and $15.9 million in fiscal 2006. Our principal sources of liquidity are our existing cash balances and cash generated from product sales and sales of intellectual property. As of October 3, 2008, our cash and cash equivalents totaled $43.0 million. We believe that our existing sources of liquidity will be sufficient to fund our operations, research and development efforts, anticipated capital expenditures, working capital and other financing requirements for at least the next 12 months, including the repayment of the remaining $10.5 million in senior convertible debt due in November 2009. However, this may not be the case, and if we incur operating losses and negative cash flows in the future, we may need to reduce further our operating costs or obtain alternate sources of financing, or both. We have recently completed transactions that involved the issuance or incurrence of indebtedness, including credit facilities. Even after completing these transactions, we may need additional capital in the future and may not have access to additional sources of capital on favorable terms or at all. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-based or debt securities, such securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock and our stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will continue to benefit from the sale of non-core patents as we have in previous periods. Our operating results may be adversely impacted by worldwide political and economic uncertainties and specific conditions in the markets we address, including the cyclical nature of and volatility in the semiconductor industry. As a result, the market price of our common stock may decline. We operate primarily in the semiconductor industry, which is cyclical and subject to rapid change and evolving industry standards. From time to time, the semiconductor industry has experienced significant downturns. These downturns are characterized by decreases in product demand, excess customer inventories and accelerated erosion of prices. These factors could cause substantial fluctuations in our revenue and in our results of operations. Any downturns in the semiconductor industry may be severe and prolonged, and any failure of the industry or wired and wireless communications markets to fully recover from downturns could seriously impact our revenue and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The semiconductor industry also periodically experiences increased demand and production capacity constraints, which may affect our ability to ship products. Accordingly, our operating results may vary significantly as a result of the general conditions in the semiconductor industry, which could cause large fluctuations in our stock price. Additionally, recently general worldwide economic conditions have experienced a significant downturn due to slower economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns in the wired and wireless communications markets, recent international conflicts and terrorist and military activity, and the impact of natural disasters and public health emergencies. These conditions make it extremely difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they could cause U.S. and foreign businesses to slow spending on our products and services, which would delay and lengthen sales cycles. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any worldwide economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery, or in the semiconductor industry or the wired and wireless communications markets. If the economy or markets in which we operate do not return to historical levels, our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, the combination of our lengthy sales cycle coupled with challenging macroeconomic conditions could have a synergistic negative impact on the results of our operations. 15 Table of Contents The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The price of our common stock is volatile and may fluctuate significantly. There can be no assurance as to the prices at which our common stock will trade or that an active trading market in our common stock will be sustained in the future. The market price at which our common stock trades may be influenced by many factors, including: • our operating and financial performance and prospects, including our ability to sustain the profitability we achieved in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008; • the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock which can impact, among other things, the volatility of our stock price and the availability of market participants to borrow shares; • investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate; • the level of research coverage of our common stock; • changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts; • general financial and other market conditions; and • domestic and international economic conditions. In addition, public stock markets have experienced, and may in the future experience, extreme price and trading volume volatility, particularly in the technology sectors of the market. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to or disproportionately impacted by the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If our common stock trades below $1.00 for 30 consecutive trading days, or if we otherwise do not meet the requirements for continued quotation on the Nasdaq Global Market (NASDAQ), our common stock could be delisted which would adversely affect the ability of investors to sell shares of our common stock and could otherwise adversely affect our business. During fiscal 2008, our common stock traded below $1.00 for 30 consecutive trading days. In order to regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule, we effected a one-for-five reverse stock split on June 30, 2008. On October 16, 2008, NASDAQ filed a rule change with the SEC to suspend temporarily the continued listing requirements relating to bid price and market value of publicly held shares through January 16, 2009. In November 2009, our stock price began trading below $1.00 per share. We can provide no assurance that we will be in compliance with the minimum bid price rule once the suspension is lifted. Our operating results are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations. Our revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations are due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others: • changes in end-user demand for the products manufactured and sold by our customers; • the effects of competitive pricing pressures, including decreases in average selling prices of our products; • the gain or loss of significant customers; • market acceptance of our products and our customers’ products; • our ability to develop, introduce, market and support new products and technologies on a timely basis; • intellectual property disputes; • the timing of receipt, reduction or cancellation of significant orders by customers; • fluctuations in the levels of component inventories held by our customers and changes in our customers’ inventory management practices; • shifts in our product mix and the effect of maturing products; • availability and cost of products from our suppliers; 16 Table of Contents • the timing and extent of product development costs; • new product and technology introductions by us or our competitors; • fluctuations in manufacturing yields; and • significant warranty claims, including those not covered by our suppliers. The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could materially and adversely affect our quarterly or annual operating results. The loss of one or more key customers or distributors, or the diminished demand for our products from a key customer could significantly reduce our revenues and profits. A relatively small number of end customers and distributors have accounted for a significant portion of our revenues in any particular period. We have no long-term volume purchase commitments from our key customers. One or more of our key customers or distributors may discontinue operations as a result of consolidation, liquidation or otherwise. Reductions, delays and cancellation of orders from our key customers or the loss of one or more key customers could significantly reduce our revenues and profits. We cannot assure you that our current customers will continue to place orders with us, that orders by existing customers will continue at current or historical levels or that we will be able to obtain orders from new customers. Our operating results are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations. Our revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations are due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others: • changes in end-user demand for the products manufactured and sold by our customers; • the effects of competitive pricing pressures, including decreases in average selling prices of our products; • the gain or loss of significant customers; • market acceptance of our products and our customers’ products; • our ability to develop, introduce, market and support new products and technologies on a timely basis; • intellectual property disputes; • the timing of receipt, reduction or cancellation of significant orders by customers; • fluctuations in the levels of component inventories held by our customers and changes in our customers’ inventory management practices; • shifts in our product mix and the effect of maturing products; • availability and cost of products from our suppliers; • the timing and extent of product development costs; • new product and technology introductions by us or our competitors; • fluctuations in manufacturing yields; and • significant warranty claims, including those not covered by our suppliers. The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could materially and adversely affect our quarterly or annual operating results. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the design, development, sale and support of our products. Our success could be negatively affected if key personnel leave. Our future success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, including executive officers and other key management, technical and support personnel. As the source of our technological 17 Table of Contents and product innovations, our key technical personnel represent a significant asset. The competition for such personnel can be intense in the semiconductor industry. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified management and other personnel necessary for the design, development, sale and support of our products. In periods of poor operating performance, we have experienced, and may experience in the future, particular difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel. If we are not successful in assuring our employees of our financial stability and our prospects for success, our employees may seek other employment, which may materially and adversely affect our business. Moreover, our recent expense reduction and restructuring initiatives, including a series of worldwide workforce reductions, have reduced the number of our technical employees. We intend to continue to expand our international business activities including expansion of design and operational centers abroad and may have difficulty attracting and maintaining international employees. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees, including Raouf Y. Halim, our chief executive officer, or certain key design and technical personnel, or our inability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business. Many of our engineers are foreign nationals working in the United States under visas. The visas held by many of our employees permit qualified foreign nationals working in specialty occupations, such as certain categories of engineers, to reside in the United States during their employment. The number of new visas approved each year may be limited and may restrict our ability to hire additional qualified technical employees. In addition, immigration policies are subject to change, and these policies have generally become more stringent since the events of September 11, 2001. Any additional significant changes in immigration laws, rules or regulations may further restrict our ability to retain or hire technical personnel. We are entirely dependent upon third parties for the manufacture of our products and are vulnerable to their capacity constraints during times of increasing demand for semiconductor products. We are entirely dependent upon outside wafer fabrication facilities, known as foundries, for wafer fabrication services. Our principal suppliers of wafer fabrication services are TSMC and Jazz. We are also dependent upon third parties, including Amkor, for the assembly and testing of all of our products. Under our fabless business model, our long-term revenue growth is dependent on our ability to obtain sufficient external manufacturing capacity, including wafer production capacity. Periods of upturns in the semiconductor industry may be characterized by rapid increases in demand and a shortage of capacity for wafer fabrication and assembly and test services. The risks associated with our reliance on third parties for manufacturing services include: • the lack of assured supply, potential shortages and higher prices; • increased lead times; • limited control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, production costs and product quality; and • the unavailability of, or delays in obtaining, products or access to key process technologies. Our standard lead time, or the time required to manufacture our products (including wafer fabrication, assembly and testing) is typically 12 to 16 weeks. During periods of manufacturing capacity shortages, the foundries and other suppliers on whom we rely may devote their limited capacity to fulfill the production requirements of other clients that are larger or better financed than we are, or who have superior contractual rights to enforce the manufacture of their products, including to the exclusion of producing our products. Additionally, if we are required to seek alternative foundries or assembly and test service providers, we would be subject to longer lead times, indeterminate delivery schedules and increased manufacturing costs, including costs to find and qualify acceptable suppliers. For example, if we choose to use a new foundry, the qualification process may take as long as six months over the standard lead time before we can begin shipping products from the new foundry. Such delays could negatively affect our relationships with our customers. Wafer fabrication processes are subject to obsolescence, and foundries may discontinue a wafer fabrication process used for certain of our products. In such event, we generally offer our customers a “last-time buy” program 18 Table of Contents to satisfy their anticipated requirements for our products. The unanticipated discontinuation of a wafer fabrication process on which we rely may adversely affect our revenues and our customer relationships. The foundries and other suppliers on whom we rely may experience financial difficulties or suffer disruptions in their operations due to causes beyond our control, including deteriorations in general economic conditions, labor strikes, work stoppages, electrical power outages, fire, earthquake, flooding or other natural disasters. Certain of our suppliers’ manufacturing facilities are located near major earthquake fault lines in the Asia-Pacific region and in California. In the event of a disruption of the operations of one or more of our suppliers, we may not have an alternate source immediately available. Such an event could cause significant delays in shipments until we are able to shift the products from an affected facility or supplier to another facility or supplier. The manufacturing processes we rely on are specialized and are available from a limited number of suppliers. Alternate sources of manufacturing capacity, particularly wafer production capacity, may not be available to us on a timely basis. Even if alternate manufacturing capacity is available, we may not be able to obtain it on favorable terms, or at all. Difficulties or delays in securing an adequate supply of our products on favorable terms, or at all, could impair our ability to meet our customers’ requirements and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, the highly complex and technologically demanding nature of semiconductor manufacturing has caused foundries to experience, from time to time, lower than anticipated manufacturing yields, particularly in connection with the introduction of new products and the installation and start-up of new process technologies. Lower than anticipated manufacturing yields may affect our ability to fulfill our customers’ demands for our products on a timely basis. Moreover, lower than anticipated manufacturing yields may adversely affect our cost of goods sold and our results of operations. We are subject to the risks of doing business internationally. A significant part of our strategy involves our continued pursuit of growth opportunities in a number of international markets. We market, sell, design and service our products internationally. Sales to customers located outside the United States, primarily in the Asia-Pacific region and Europe, were approximately 68% of our net revenues for fiscal 2008. In addition, we have design centers, customer support centers, and rely on suppliers, located outside the United States, including foundries and assembly and test service providers located in the Asia-Pacific region. Our international sales and operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in selling and operating abroad which could adversely affect our ability to increase or maintain our foreign sales. These include, but are not limited to, risks regarding: • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • local economic and political conditions; • disruptions of capital and trading markets; • accounts receivable collection and longer payment cycles; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • potential hostilities and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; • restrictive governmental actions (such as restrictions on the transfer or repatriation of funds and trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and customs duties and tariffs); • changes in legal or regulatory requirements; • difficulty in obtaining distribution and support; • the laws and policies of the United States and other countries affecting trade, foreign investment and loans and import or export licensing requirements; • environmental laws and regulations governing, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the use, handling and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, soil and groundwater contamination and employee health and safety; 19 Table of Contents • tax laws; • limitations on our ability under local laws to protect our intellectual property; • cultural differences in the conduct of business; and • natural disasters, acts of terrorism and war. Because most of our international sales are currently denominated in U.S. dollars, our products could become less competitive in international markets if the value of the U.S. dollar increases relative to foreign currencies. As we continue to shift a portion of our operations offshore, more of our expenses are incurred in currencies other than those in which we bill for the related services. An increase in the value of certain currencies, such as the Euro, Ukrainian hryvnia and Indian rupee, against the U.S. dollar could increase costs of our offshore operations by increasing labor and other costs that are denominated in local currencies. From time to time we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to mitigate the risk of loss from currency exchange rate fluctuations for foreign currency commitments entered into in the ordinary course of business. We have not entered into foreign currency forward exchange contracts for other purposes. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by currency fluctuations. We are subject to intense competition. The communications semiconductor industry in general, and the markets in which we compete in particular, are intensely competitive. We compete worldwide with a number of U.S. and international semiconductor manufacturers that are both larger and smaller than we are in terms of resources and market share. We currently face significant competition in our markets and expect that intense price and product competition will continue. This competition has resulted, and is expected to continue to result, in declining average selling prices for our products. Many of our current and potential competitors have certain advantages over us, including: • stronger financial position and liquidity; • longer presence in key markets; • greater name recognition; • more secure supply chain; • access to larger customer bases; and • significantly greater sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources. As a result, these competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. Moreover, we have incurred substantial operating losses and we may continue to incur losses in future periods. We believe that financial stability of suppliers is an important consideration in our customers’ purchasing decisions. If our OEM customers perceive that we lack adequate financial stability, they may choose semiconductor suppliers that they believe have a stronger financial position or liquidity. Current and potential competitors also have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with our existing or potential customers, resellers or other third parties. These relationships may affect customers’ purchasing decisions. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and potential competitors. Our success depends on our ability to develop competitive new products in a timely manner and keep abreast of the rapid technological changes in our market. Our operating results will depend largely on our ability to continue to introduce new and enhanced semiconductor products on a timely basis as well as our ability to keep abreast of rapid technological changes 20 Table of Contents in our markets. Our products could become obsolete sooner than we expect because of faster than anticipated, or unanticipated, changes in one or more of the technologies related to our products. The introduction of new technology representing a substantial advance over current technology could adversely affect demand for our existing products. Currently accepted industry standards are also subject to change, which may also contribute to the obsolescence of our products. If we are unable to develop and introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, our business may be adversely affected. Successful product development and introduction depends on numerous factors, including, among others: • our ability to anticipate customer and market requirements and changes in technology and industry standards; • our ability to accurately define new products; • our ability to complete development of new products, and bring our products to market, on a timely basis; • our ability to differentiate our products from offerings of our competitors; and • overall market acceptance of our products. We may not have sufficient resources to make the substantial investment in research and development in order to develop and bring to market new and enhanced products, particularly if we are required to take further cost reduction actions. Furthermore, we are required to evaluate expenditures for planned product development continually and to choose among alternative technologies based on our expectations of future market growth. We may be unable to develop and introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, our products may not satisfy customer requirements or achieve market acceptance, or we may be unable to anticipate new industry standards and technological changes. We also may not be able to respond successfully to new product announcements and introductions by competitors. Research and development projects may experience unanticipated delays related to our internal design efforts. New product development also requires the production of photomask sets and the production and testing of sample devices. In the event we experience delays in obtaining these services from the wafer fabrication and assembly and test vendors on whom we rely, our product introductions may be delayed and our revenues and results of operations may be adversely affected. The increasing significance of our foreign operations exposes us to risks that are beyond our control and could affect our ability to operate successfully. In order to enhance the cost-effectiveness of our operations, we have increasingly sought to shift portions of our research and development and customer support operations to jurisdictions with lower cost structures than that available in the United States. The transition of even a portion of our business operations to new facilities in a foreign country involves a number of logistical and technical challenges that could result in product development delays and operational interruptions, which could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business. We may encounter complications associated with the set-up, migration and operation of business systems and equipment in a new facility. This could result in delays in our research and development efforts and otherwise disrupt our operations. If such delays or disruptions occur, they could damage our reputation and otherwise adversely affect our business and results of operations. To the extent that we shift any operations or labor offshore to jurisdictions with lower cost structures, we may experience challenges in effectively managing those operations as a result of several factors, including time zone differences and regulatory, legal, cultural and logistical issues. Additionally, the relocation of labor resources may have a negative impact on our existing employees, which could negatively impact our operations. If we are unable to effectively manage our offshore research and development staff and any other offshore operations, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. We cannot be certain that any shifts in our operations to offshore jurisdictions will ultimately produce the expected cost savings. We cannot predict the extent of government support, availability of qualified workers, future labor rates or monetary and economic conditions in any offshore locations where we may operate. Although some of 21 Table of Contents these factors may influence our decision to establish or increase our offshore operations, there are inherent risks beyond our control, including: • political uncertainties; • wage inflation; • exposure to foreign currency fluctuations; • tariffs and other trade barriers; and • foreign regulatory restrictions and unexpected changes in regulatory environments. We will likely be faced with competition in these offshore markets for qualified personnel, including skilled design and technical personnel, and we expect this competition to increase as companies expand their operations offshore. If the supply of such qualified personnel becomes limited due to increased competition or otherwise, it could increase our costs and employee turnover rates. One or more of these factors or other factors relating to foreign operations could result in increased operating expenses and make it more difficult for us to manage our costs and operations, which could cause our operating results to decline and result in reduced revenues. Industry consolidation may harm our operating results. There has been an increasing trend toward industry consolidation in our markets in recent years, particularly among major network equipment and telecommunications companies. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. While we cannot predict how consolidation in our industry will affect our customers or competitors, rapid consolidation will lead to fewer customers, with the effect that loss of a major customer could have a material impact on results not anticipated in a customer marketplace composed of more numerous participants. Increased consolidation and competition for fewer customers may result in pricing pressures or a loss in market share, each of which could materially impact our business. Uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of our products could adversely affect our business. Our sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders and we generally do not have long-term supply arrangements with our customers. Generally, our customers may cancel orders until 30 days prior to shipment. In addition, we sell a substantial portion of our products through distributors, some of whom have a right to return unsold products to us. Sales to distributors accounted for approximately 52% of our revenues for fiscal 2008. Because of the significant lead times for wafer fabrication and assembly and test services, we routinely purchase inventory based on estimates of end-market demand for our customers’ products. End-market demand may be subject to dramatic changes and is difficult to predict. End-market demand is highly influenced by the timing and extent of carrier capital expenditures which may decrease due to general economic conditions, and uncertainty, over which we have no control. The difficulty in predicting demand may be compounded when we sell to OEMs indirectly through distributors or contract manufacturers, or both, as our forecasts of demand are then based on estimates provided by multiple parties. In addition, our customers may change their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. The cancellation or deferral of product orders, the return of previously sold products or overproduction due to the failure of anticipated orders to materialize could result in our holding excess or obsolete inventory, which could result in write-downs of inventory. Conversely, if we fail to anticipate inventory needs we may be unable to fulfill demand for our products, resulting in a loss of potential revenue. If network infrastructure OEMs do not design our products into their equipment, we will be unable to sell those products. Moreover, a design win from a customer does not guarantee future sales to that customer. Our products are not sold directly to the end-user but are components of other products. As a result, we rely on network infrastructure OEMs to select our products from among alternative offerings to be designed into their equipment. We may be unable to achieve these “design wins.” Without design wins from OEMs, we would be unable to sell our products. Once an OEM designs another supplier’s semiconductors into one of its product platforms, it is more difficult for us to achieve future design wins with that OEM’s product platform because 22 Table of Contents changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk for the OEM. Achieving a design win with a customer does not ensure that we will receive significant revenues from that customer and we may be unable to convert design wins into actual sales. Even after a design win, the customer is not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to stop using our products if, for example, its own products are not commercially successful. Because of the lengthy sales cycles of many of our products, we may incur significant expenses before we generate any revenues related to those products. Our customers generally need six months or longer to test and evaluate our products and an additional six months or more to begin volume production of equipment that incorporates our products. These lengthy periods also increase the possibility that a customer may decide to cancel or change product plans, which could reduce or eliminate sales to that customer. As a result of this lengthy sales cycle, we may incur significant research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses before we generate any revenues from new products. We may never generate the anticipated revenues if our customers cancel or change their product plans as customers may increasingly do if economic conditions continue to deteriorate. We may be subject to claims, or we may be required to defend and indemnify customers against claims, of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights or demands that we, or our customers, license third-party technology, which could result in significant expense. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights against technologies that are important to our business. The resolution or compromise of any litigation or other legal process to enforce such alleged third party rights, including claims arising through our contractual indemnification of our customers, or claims challenging the validity of our patents, regardless of its merit or resolution, could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. We may not prevail in any such litigation or other legal process or we may compromise or settle such claims because of the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property disputes and the significant expense in defending such claims. If litigation or other legal process results in adverse rulings, we may be required to: • pay substantial damages for past, present and future use of the infringing technology; • cease the manufacture, use or sale of infringing products; • discontinue the use of infringing technology; • expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology; • pay substantial damages to our customers or end users to discontinue use or replace infringing technology with non-infringing technology; • license technology from the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all; or • relinquish intellectual property rights associated with one or more of our patent claims, if such claims are held invalid or otherwise unenforceable. In connection with the distribution, we generally assumed responsibility for all contingent liabilities and litigation against Conexant or its subsidiaries related to our business. If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, it may harm our ability to compete. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as employee and third-party nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. We may be required to engage in litigation to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights, which 23 Table of Contents may require us to expend significant resources and to divert the efforts and attention of our management from our business operations; in particular: • the steps we take to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property may not be successful; • any existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented; or • the measures described above may not provide meaningful protection. Despite the preventive measures and precautions that we take, a third party could copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic partners. We also try to control access to and distribution of our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these efforts, internal or external parties may attempt to copy, disclose, obtain or use our products, services or technology without our authorization. Also, former employees may seek employment with our business partners, customers or competitors, and the confidential nature of our proprietary information may not be maintained in the course of such future employment. Further, in some countries outside the United States, patent protection is not available or not reliably enforced. Some countries that do allow registration of patents do not provide meaningful redress for patent violations. As a result, protecting intellectual property in those countries is difficult and competitors may sell products in those countries that have functions and features that infringe on our intellectual property. The complexity of our products may lead to errors, defects and bugs, which could subject us to significant costs or damages and adversely affect market acceptance of our products. Although we, our customers and our suppliers rigorously test our products, our products are complex and may contain errors, defects or bugs when first introduced or as new versions are released. We have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, errors, defects and bugs. If any of our products contain production defects or reliability, safety, quality or compatibility problems that are significant to our customers, our reputation may be damaged and customers may be reluctant to buy our products, which could adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. In addition, these defects or bugs could interrupt or delay sales of affected products to our customers, which could adversely affect our results of operations. If defects or bugs are discovered after commencement of commercial production of a new product, we may be required to make significant expenditures of capital and other resources to resolve the problems. This could result in significant additional development costs and the diversion of technical and other resources from our other development efforts. We could also incur significant costs to repair or replace defective products and we could be subject to claims for damages by our customers or others against us. We could also be exposed to product liability claims or indemnification claims by our customers. These costs or damages could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may make business acquisitions or investments, which involve significant risk. We may from time to time make acquisitions, enter into alliances or make investments in other businesses to complement our existing product offerings, augment our market coverage or enhance our technological capabilities. However, any such transactions could result in: • issuances of equity securities dilutive to our existing stockholders; • substantial cash payments; • the incurrence of substantial debt and assumption of unknown liabilities; • large one-time write-offs; • amortization expenses related to intangible assets; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; and • the potential loss of key employees, customers and suppliers of the acquired business. 24 Table of Contents Integrating acquired organizations and their products and services may be expensive, time-consuming and a strain on our resources and our relationships with employees, customers and suppliers, and ultimately may not be successful. The benefits or synergies we may expect from the acquisition of complementary or supplementary businesses may not be realized to the extent or in the time frame we initially anticipate. Additionally, in periods subsequent to an acquisition, we must evaluate goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets for impairment. If such assets are found to be impaired, they will be written down to estimated fair value, with a charge against earnings. Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in Part I, Item 7 of this Form 10-K). Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and changes in rule making by various regulatory bodies. Factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. Substantial sales of the shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of our convertible senior notes or exercise of the warrant issued to Conexant could adversely affect our stock price or our ability to raise additional financing in the public capital markets. Conexant holds a warrant to acquire six million shares (adjusted to reflect our June 30, 2008 one-for-five reverse stock split) of our common stock at a price of $17.04 per share (adjusted to reflect our June 30, 2008 one-for-five reverse stock split), exercisable through June 27, 2013, representing approximately 15% of our outstanding common stock on a fully diluted basis. The warrant may be transferred or sold in whole or part at any time. If Conexant sells the warrant or if Conexant or a transferee of the warrant exercises the warrant and sells a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the future, or if investors perceive that these sales may occur, the market price of our common stock could decline or market demand for our common stock could be sharply reduced. Currently, we have $25.5 million aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes outstanding. These notes are convertible at any time, at the option of the holder, into a total of approximately 4.1 million shares (adjusted to reflect our June 30, 2008 one-for-five reverse stock split) of common stock. The conversion of the notes and subsequent sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could also adversely affect demand for, and the market price of, our common stock. Each of these transactions could adversely affect our ability to raise additional financing by issuing equity or equity-based securities in the public capital markets. Antidilution and other provisions in the warrant issued to Conexant may also adversely affect our stock price or our ability to raise additional financing. The warrant issued to Conexant contains antidilution provisions that provide for adjustment of the warrant’s exercise price, and the number of shares issuable under the warrant, upon the occurrence of certain events. If we issue, or are deemed to have issued, shares of our common stock, or securities convertible into our common stock, at prices below the current market price of our common stock (as defined in the warrant) at the time of the issuance of such securities, the warrant’s exercise price will be reduced and the number of shares issuable under the warrant will be increased. The amount of such adjustment if any, will be determined pursuant to a formula specified in the warrant and will depend on the number of shares issued, the offering price and the current market price of our common stock at the time of the issuance of such securities. Adjustments to the warrant pursuant to these antidilution provisions may result in significant dilution to the interests of our existing stockholders and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The antidilution provisions may also limit our ability to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us. Moreover, we may not realize any cash proceeds from the exercise of the warrant held by Conexant. A holder of the warrant may opt for a cashless exercise of all or part of the warrant. In a cashless exercise, the holder of the warrant would make no cash payment to us, and would receive a number of shares of our common stock having an 25 Table of Contents aggregate value equal to the excess of the then-current market price of the shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrant over the exercise price of the warrant. Such an issuance of common stock would be immediately dilutive to the interests of other stockholders. Some of our directors and executive officers may have potential conflicts of interest because of their positions with Conexant or their ownership of Conexant common stock. Some of our directors are Conexant directors. Several of our directors and executive officers own Conexant common stock and hold options to purchase Conexant common stock. Service on our board of directors and as a director or officer of Conexant, or ownership of Conexant common stock by our directors and executive officers, could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when directors and officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for us and Conexant. For example, potential conflicts could arise in connection with decisions involving the warrant to purchase our common stock issued to Conexant, or with respect to other agreements made between us and Conexant in connection with the distribution. Our restated certificate of incorporation includes provisions relating to the allocation of business opportunities that may be suitable for both us and Conexant based on the relationship to the companies of the individual to whom the opportunity is presented and the method by which it was presented and also includes provisions limiting challenges to the enforceability of contracts between us and Conexant. We may have difficulty resolving any potential conflicts of interest with Conexant, and even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable than if we were dealing with an entirely unrelated third party. Provisions in our organizational documents and rights plan and Delaware law will make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us. Our restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws, our amended rights agreement and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain several provisions that would make more difficult an acquisition of control of us in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. Our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include provisions such as: • the division of our board of directors into three classes to be elected on a staggered basis, one class each year; • the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of our preferred stock in one or more series without further authorization of our stockholders; • a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent; • a requirement that stockholders provide advance notice of any stockholder nominations of directors or any proposal of new business to be considered at any meeting of stockholders; • a requirement that a supermajority vote be obtained to remove a director for cause or to amend or repeal certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws; • elimination of the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders; and • a fair price provision. Our rights agreement gives our stockholders certain rights that would substantially increase the cost of acquiring us in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. In addition to the rights agreement and the provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally provides that a corporation shall not engage in any business combination with any interested stockholder during the three-year period following the time that such stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless a majority of the directors then in office approves either the business combination or the transaction that results in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder or specified stockholder approval requirements are met. 26 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 