ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Conseco and its businesses are subject to a number of risks including general business and financial risk factors. Any or all of such factors could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or results of operations of Conseco. In addition, please refer to the "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" included in "Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Consolidated Financial Condition and Results of Operations". Our Second Amended Credit Facility contains various restrictive covenants and required financial ratios that limit our operating flexibility; our current credit ratings may adversely affect our ability to access capital and the cost of such capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2008, we had $911.8 million principal amount of debt outstanding under our secured credit agreement (the "Second Amended Credit Facility"). The Second Amended Credit Facility imposes a number of covenants and financial ratios as defined in the Second Amended Credit Facility that we must meet or maintain. The following describes the financial ratios and amounts as of December 31, 2008: Covenant under the Balance or Margin for adverse Second Amended ratio as of development from Credit Facility December 31, 2008 December 31, 2008 levels --------------- ----------------- ------------------------ Aggregate risk-based capital ratio......... greater than or equal 255% Reduction to to 250% statutory capital and surplus of approximately $25 million, or an increase to the risk- based capital of approximately $10 million. Combined statutory capital and surplus..... greater than $1,270 $1,366 million Reduction to million combined statutory capital and surplus of approximately $96 million. Debt to total capitalization ratio......... not more than 30% 28% Reduction to shareholders' equity of approximately $273 million or additional debt of $117 million. Interest coverage ratio.................... greater than or equal 2.35 to 1 Reduction in cash to 2.00 to 1 for each flows to the holding rolling four quarters company of approximately $20 million. 21 As described in the note to the consolidated financial statements entitled "Subsequent Events", on March 30, 2009, we completed an amendment to our Second Amended Credit Facility, which provides for, among other things: (i) additional margins between our current financial status and certain financial covenant requirements through June 30, 2010; (ii) higher interest rates and the payment of a fee; (iii) new restrictions on the ability of the Company to incur additional indebtedness; and (iv) the ability of the lenders to appoint a financial advisor at the Company's expense. These covenants place significant restrictions on the manner in which we may operate our business and our ability to meet these financial covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. If we default under any of these covenants, the lenders could declare all outstanding borrowings, accrued interest and fees to be immediately due and payable. If the lenders under our Second Amended Credit Facility would elect to accelerate the amounts due, the holders of our 3.50% Convertible Debentures due September 30, 2035 (the "Debentures") and Senior Note could elect to take similar action with respect to those debts. If that were to occur, we would not have sufficient liquidity to repay our indebtedness. Our Second Amended Credit Facility also imposes restrictions that limit our ability to take certain actions, including the following: o incur additional indebtedness or refinance existing indebtedness; o transfer or sell assets unless the net proceeds are reinvested in our insurance operations or used to reduce the amount due under the Second Amended Credit Facility; o enter into mergers or other business combinations; o pay cash dividends or repurchase stock; and o make certain investments and capital expenditures. Absent a waiver or modification by the senior credit facility lenders, these restrictions impact the manner in which we operate our business and could limit the ability of the Company to be able to raise sufficient funds to repay the Debentures when due. The Debentures are putable to the Company on September 30, 2010. See the note to the consolidated financial statements entitled "Notes Payable - Direct Corporate Obligations" for further information related to the Debentures. S&P has assigned a "CCC" rating on our senior secured debt with a negative outlook. In S&P's view, an obligation rated "CCC" is currently vulnerable to nonpayment and is dependent upon favorable business, financial and economic conditions to meet its financial commitment on the obligation. S&P has a total of twenty-two separate categories rating senior debt, ranging from "AAA (Extremely Strong)" to "D (Payment Default)." There are seventeen ratings above our "CCC" rating and four ratings that are below our rating. Moody's has assigned a "Caa1" rating on our senior secured debt with a negative outlook. In Moody's view, an obligation rated "Caa1" is in poor standing and there may be present elements of danger with respect to principal or interest. Moody's has a total of twenty-one separate categories in which to rate senior debt, ranging from "Aaa (Exceptional)" to "C (Lowest Rated)." There are sixteen ratings above our "Caa1" rating and four ratings that are below our rating. A negative outlook by S&P and Moody's is an opinion regarding the likely direction of a rating over the medium term. If we were to require additional capital, either to refinance our existing indebtedness or for any other reason, our current senior debt ratings, as well as economic conditions in the credit markets generally, could severely restrict our access to and the cost of such capital. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Consolidated Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Consolidated Financial Condition; Liquidity of the Holding Companies" for additional information regarding the Company's liquidity. Our liquidity and ability to meet our holding company obligations may be constrained by the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to distribute cash to us. CNO and CDOC, a guarantor under the Second Amended Credit Facility, are holding companies with no business operations of their own; they depend on their operating subsidiaries for cash to make principal and interest payments on debt and to pay administrative expenses and income taxes. CNO and CDOC receive cash from insurance subsidiaries, consisting of dividends and distributions, principal and interest payments on surplus debentures and tax-sharing payments, as well as cash from our non-insurance subsidiaries consisting of dividends, distributions, loans and advances. A deterioration in the financial condition, earnings or cash flow of our significant subsidiaries for any reason could hinder the ability of such subsidiaries to pay cash dividends or other disbursements to CNO and/or CDOC which would limit the ability of CNO to meet its debt service requirements and satisfy other financial obligations. In addition, we may elect to contribute additional capital to certain insurance subsidiaries to strengthen their surplus and this could limit the amount available at our insurance 22 subsidiaries to pay dividends. Accordingly, this could limit our ability to meet debt service requirements and satisfy other holding company financial obligations. The obligations under our Second Amended Credit Facility are guaranteed by our current and future domestic subsidiaries, other than our insurance subsidiaries and certain immaterial subsidiaries. CDOC's guarantee under the Second Amended Credit Facility is secured by a lien on substantially all of the assets of the guarantors, including the stock of Conseco Life Insurance Company of Texas ("Conseco Life of Texas") (which is the parent of Bankers Life and Casualty Company, Bankers Conseco Life Insurance Company ("Bankers Conseco Life") and Colonial Penn), Washington National (which is the parent of Conseco Insurance Company and Conseco Life) and Conseco Health. If we fail to make the required payments, do not meet the financial covenants or otherwise default on the terms of the Second Amended Credit Facility, the stock of Conseco Life of Texas, Washington National and Conseco Health could be transferred to the lenders under such facility. Any such transfer would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and would have a significant adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. Insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of dividends or other payments by our insurance subsidiaries to parent companies if they determine that such payment could be adverse to our policyholders or contract holders. Otherwise, the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends is subject to state insurance department regulations. Insurance regulations generally permit dividends to be paid from statutory earned surplus of the insurance company without regulatory approval for any 12-month period in amounts equal to the greater of (or in a few states, the lesser of): (i) statutory net gain from operations or statutory net income for the prior year; or (ii) 10 percent of statutory capital and surplus as of the end of the preceding year. This type of dividend is referred to as "ordinary dividends". Any dividends in excess of these levels require the approval of the director or commissioner of the applicable state insurance department. This type of dividend is referred to as "extraordinary dividends". During 2008, our insurance subsidiaries paid cash dividends of $20 million to CDOC. Each of the immediate insurance subsidiaries of CDOC has negative earned surplus at December 31, 2008. Accordingly, any dividend payments from the insurance subsidiaries to the holding Company will require the prior approval of the director or commissioner of the applicable state insurance department. During 2009, we are expecting our insurance subsidiaries to pay approximately $60 million of extraordinary dividends to CDOC ($25 million of which has been approved). In addition, during 2009, we are expecting our insurance subsidiaries to pay interest of $44.5 million on surplus debentures ($21.2 million of which has been approved). The remaining dividends and surplus debenture interest payments will require prior regulatory approval. Although we believe the dividends and surplus debenture interest payments we are expecting to pay during 2009 are consistent with payments that have been approved by insurance regulators in prior years, there can be no assurance that such payments will be approved or that the financial condition of our insurance subsidiaries will not change, making future approvals unlikely. Dividends and other payments from our non-insurance subsidiaries to CNO or CDOC do not require approval by any regulatory authority or other third party. In accordance with an order from the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation, Washington National may not distribute funds to any affiliate or shareholder without prior notice to the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation. In addition, the RBC and other capital requirements described below can also limit, in certain circumstances, the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends. Certain states have established minimum capital requirements for insurance companies licensed to do business in their state. These additional requirements generally have not had a significant impact on the Company's insurance subsidiaries, but the capital requirements in Florida have caused Conseco Health to maintain a higher level of capital and surplus than it would otherwise maintain and have thus limited its ability to pay dividends. In addition, although we are under no obligation to do so, we may elect to contribute additional capital to strengthen the surplus of certain insurance subsidiaries. Any election regarding the contribution of additional capital to our insurance subsidiaries could affect the ability of our top tier insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends. The ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends is also impacted by various criteria established by rating agencies to maintain or receive higher ratings and by the capital levels that we target for our insurance subsidiaries. The agreements between our insurance subsidiaries and Conseco Services, LLC and 40|86 Advisors, respectively, were previously approved by the domestic insurance regulator for each insurance company, and any payments thereunder do not require further regulatory approval. 23 The following table sets forth the aggregate amount of dividends and other distributions that our insurance subsidiaries paid to us in each of the last two fiscal years (dollars in millions): Years ended December 31, ------------------------ 2008 2007 ---- ---- Dividends................................................................... $ 20.0 $ 50.0 Surplus debenture interest.................................................. 56.4 69.9 Fees for services provided pursuant to service agreements................... 83.2 92.9 Tax sharing payments........................................................ 1.1 1.9 ------ ------ Total paid................................................................ $160.7 $214.7 ====== ====== Risks associated with current economic environment Over the past year, the U.S. economy has experienced unprecedented credit and liquidity issues and entered into a recession. Following several years of rapid credit expansion, a sharp contraction in mortgage lending coupled with dramatic declines in home prices, rising mortgage defaults and increasing home foreclosures, resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to most sectors of the credit markets, and to credit default swaps and other derivative securities, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions, to be subsidized by the U.S. government and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets, generally, and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. These factors, combined with declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown and fears of a prolonged recession. Even under more favorable market conditions, general factors such as the availability of credit, consumer spending, business investment, capital market conditions and inflation affect our business. For example, in an economic downturn, higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending may depress the demand for life insurance, annuities and other insurance products. In addition, this type of economic environment may result in higher lapses or surrenders of policies. Accordingly, the risks we face related to general economic and business conditions are more pronounced given the severity and magnitude of the recent adverse economic and market conditions experienced. More specifically, our business is exposed to the performance of the debt and equity markets, which have been materially and adversely affected by recent economic developments. Adverse conditions, including but not limited to, a lack of buyers in the marketplace, volatility, credit spread changes, and benchmark interest rate changes, have affected and will continue to impact the liquidity and value of our investments. The manner in which poor debt and equity market performance and changes in interest rates have adversely affected, and will continue to adversely affect, our business, financial condition, growth and profitability include, but are not limited to, the following: o The value of our investment portfolio has declined, which has resulted in, and may continue to result in, higher realized and/or unrealized losses. For example, in 2008 the value of our investments decreased by $2.5 billion due to net unrealized losses on investments. A widening of credit spreads, such as the market has experienced recently, increases the net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolio and may ultimately result in increased realized losses. The value of our investment portfolio can also be affected by illiquidity and by changes in assumptions or inputs we use in estimating fair value. Further, certain types of securities in our investment portfolio, such as asset-backed securities supported by residential and commercial mortgages, have been disproportionately affected. Continued adverse capital market conditions could result in further realized and/or unrealized losses. o Changes in interest rates also have other effects related to our investment portfolio. In periods of increasing interest rates, life insurance policy loans, surrenders and withdrawals could increase as policyholders seek investments with higher returns. This could require us to sell invested assets at a time when their prices are depressed by the increase in interest rates, which could cause us to realize investment losses. Conversely, during periods of declining interest rates, we could experience increased premium payments on products with flexible premium features, repayment of policy loans and increased percentages of policies remaining in force. We would obtain lower returns on investments made with these cash flows. In addition, borrowers may prepay or redeem bonds in our investment 24 portfolio so that we might have to reinvest those proceeds in lower yielding investments. As a consequence of these factors, we could experience a decrease in the spread between the returns on our investment portfolio and amounts credited to policyholders and contract owners, which could adversely affect our profitability. o The attractiveness of certain of our products may decrease because they are linked to the equity markets and assessments of our financial strength, resulting in lower profits. Increasing consumer concerns about the returns and features of our products or our financial strength may cause existing customers to surrender policies or withdraw assets, and diminish our ability to sell policies and attract assets from new and existing customers, which would result in lower sales and fee revenues. These extraordinary economic and market conditions have materially and adversely affected us. It is difficult to predict how long the current economic and market conditions will continue, whether the financial markets will continue to deteriorate and which aspects of our products and/or business will be adversely affected. However, the lack of credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity are likely to continue to materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our investment portfolio is subject to several risks that may diminish the value of our invested assets and negatively impact our profitability, our financial condition, our liquidity and our ability to continue to comply with the financial covenants under our Second Amended Credit Facility. The value of our investment portfolio is subject to numerous factors, which are difficult to predict, and are often beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: o Changes in interest rates and interest rate spreads can reduce the value of our investments as further discussed in the risk factor entitled "Changing interest rates may adversely affect our results of operations". o Changes in patterns of relative liquidity in the capital markets for various asset classes. o Changes in the ability of issuers to make timely repayments on actively managed fixed maturity investments can reduce the value of our investments. This risk is significantly greater with respect to below-investment grade securities, which comprised 9.1 percent of our actively managed fixed maturity investments as of December 31, 2008. o Changes in the estimated timing of receipt of cash flows. For example, our structured security investments, which comprised 22 percent of our actively managed fixed maturity investments at December 31, 2008, are subject to risks relating to variable prepayment on the assets underlying such securities, such as mortgage loans. When structured securities prepay faster than expected, investment income may be adversely affected due to the acceleration of the amortization of purchase premiums or the inability to reinvest at comparable yields in lower interest rate environments. o Changes in the relative risk premium required in the market for a given level of risk. We have recorded writedowns of fixed maturity investments, equity securities and other invested assets as a result of conditions which caused us to conclude a decline in the fair value of the investment was other than temporary as follows (excluding any such amounts included in discontinued operations): $162.3 million in 2008; $105.5 million in 2007 (including $73.7 million of writedowns of investments which were subsequently transferred pursuant to a coinsurance agreement as further discussed in the note to the consolidated financial statements entitled "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies"); and $21.1 million in 2006. Our investment portfolio is subject to the risks of further declines in realizable value. However, we attempt to mitigate this risk through the diversification and active management of our portfolio. In the event of substantial product surrenders or policy claims, we may choose to maintain highly liquid, and potentially lower-yielding, assets, or to sell assets at a loss, thereby eroding the performance of our portfolio. Because a substantial portion of our operating results are derived from returns on our investment portfolio, significant losses in the portfolio may have a direct and materially adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, losses on our investment portfolio could reduce the investment returns that we are able to credit to our customers of certain products, 25 thereby impacting our sales and eroding our financial performance. Investment losses may also reduce the capital of our insurance subsidiaries, which may cause us to make additional capital contributions to those subsidiaries or may limit the ability of the insurance subsidiaries to make dividend payments to the holding company. In addition, future investment losses could cause us to be in violation of the financial covenants under our Second Amended Credit Facility as described in the first risk factor above. Deteriorating financial performance of securities collateralized by mortgage loans and commercial mortgage loans may lead to writedowns, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in mortgage delinquency or recovery rates, declining real estate prices, changes in credit or bond insurer credit ratings and the quality of service provided by service providers on securities in our portfolios could lead us to determine that writedowns are appropriate in the future. The determination of the amount of realized investment losses recorded as impairments of our investments is highly subjective and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. The determination of the amount of realized investment losses recorded as impairments vary by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects changes in realized investment gains and losses from impairments in operating results as such evaluations are revised. Our assessment of whether unrealized losses are impairments requires significant judgment and future events may occur, or additional information may become available, which may necessitate future impairments of securities in our portfolio. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments. For example, the cost of our fixed maturity and equity securities is adjusted for impairments in value deemed to be other than temporary in the period in which the determination is made. The assessment of whether impairments have occurred is based on management's case-by-case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in fair value. The determination of the fair value of our fixed maturity securities results in unrealized net investment gains and losses and is highly subjective and could materially impact our operating results and financial condition. In determining fair value, we generally utilize market transaction data for the same or similar instruments. The degree of management judgment involved in determining fair values is inversely related to the availability of market observable information. The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities may differ from the amount actually received to sell an asset or the amount paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Moreover, the use of different valuation assumptions may have a material effect on the fair values of the financial assets and financial liabilities. As of December 31, 2008, our total unrealized net investment losses were $3.0 billion. Litigation and regulatory investigations are inherent in our business, may harm our financial strength and reputation and negatively impact our financial results. Insurance companies historically have been subject to substantial litigation. In addition to the traditional policy claims associated with their businesses, insurance companies face policyholder suits and class action suits. We also face significant risks related to regulatory investigations and actions. The litigation and regulatory investigations we are, have been, or may become subject to include matters related to sales or underwriting practices, payment of contingent or other sales commissions, claim payments and procedures, product design, product disclosure, administration, additional premium charges for premiums paid on a periodic basis, calculation of cost of insurance charges, changes to certain non-guaranteed policy features, denial or delay of benefits, charging excessive or impermissible fees on products and recommending unsuitable products to customers. Certain of the Company's insurance policies allow or require us to make changes based on experience to certain non-guaranteed elements such as cost of insurance charges, expense loads, credited interest rates and policyholder bonuses. The Company intends to make changes to certain non-guaranteed elements in the future. In some instances in the past, such action has resulted in litigation and similar litigation may arise in the future. The Company's exposure, if any, arising from any such action cannot presently be determined. Our pending legal and regulatory actions include matters that are specific to us, as well as matters faced by other insurance companies. State insurance departments focus on sales and claims payment practices and product issues in their market conduct examinations. Negotiated settlements of class action and other lawsuits have had a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations of our insurance companies. We are, in the ordinary course of our business, a plaintiff or defendant in actions arising out of our insurance business, including class actions and reinsurance disputes, and, from time to time, we are also 26 involved in various governmental and administrative proceedings and investigations and inquiries such as information requests, subpoenas and books and record examinations, from state, federal and other authorities. The ultimate outcome of these lawsuits and investigations, however, cannot be predicted with certainty. In the event of an unfavorable outcome in one or more of these matters, the ultimate liability may be in excess of liabilities we have established and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We could also suffer significant reputational harm as a result of such litigation, regulatory action or investigation which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. For a description of current legal proceedings, see the note to the consolidated financial statements entitled "Commitments and Contingencies". The limited historical claims experience on our long-term care products could negatively impact our operations if our estimates prove wrong and we have not adequately set premium rates. In setting premium rates, we consider historical claims information and other factors, but we cannot predict future claims with certainty. This is particularly applicable to our long-term care insurance products, for which we (as well as other companies selling these products) have relatively limited historical claims experience. Long-term care products tend to have fewer claims than other health products such as Medicare supplement, but when claims are incurred, they tend to be much higher in dollar amount and longer in duration. Also, long-term care claims are incurred much later in the life of the policy than most other supplemental health products. As a result of these traits, it is difficult to appropriately price this product. For our long-term care insurance, actual persistency in later policy durations that is higher than our persistency assumptions could have a negative impact on profitability. If these policies remain inforce longer than we assumed, then we could be required to make greater benefit payments than anticipated when the products were priced. Mortality is a critical factor influencing the length of time a claimant receives long-term care benefits. Mortality continues to improve for the general population, and life expectancy has increased. Improvements in actual mortality trends relative to assumptions may adversely affect our profitability. Our Bankers Life segment has offered long-term care insurance since 1985. Recently, the claims experience on our Bankers Life long-term care blocks has generally been higher than our pricing expectations and, the persistency of these policies has been higher than our pricing expectations which may result in higher benefit ratios in the future. After the transfer of Senior Health to an independent trust, we continue to hold long-term care business acquired through previous acquisitions. The premiums collected from this block totaled $33.7 million in 2008. The experience on this acquired block has generally been worse than the acquired companies' original pricing expectations. We have received regulatory approvals for numerous premium rate increases in recent years pertaining to these blocks. Even with these rate increases, this block experienced benefit ratios of 169.6 percent in 2008, 192.4 percent in 2007 and 224.4 percent in 2006. If future claims experience proves to be worse than anticipated as our long-term care blocks continue to age, our financial results could be adversely affected. In addition, such rate increases may cause existing policyholders to allow their policies to lapse. The results of operations of our insurance business will decline if our premium rates are not adequate or if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval to increase rates. We set the premium rates on our health insurance policies based on facts and circumstances known at the time we issue the policies and on assumptions about numerous variables, including the actuarial probability of a policyholder incurring a claim, the probable size of the claim, maintenance costs to administer the policies and the interest rate earned on our investment of premiums. In setting premium rates, we consider historical claims information, industry statistics, the rates of our competitors and other factors, but we cannot predict with certainty the future actual claims on our products. If our actual claims experience proves to be less favorable than we assumed and we are unable to raise our premium rates to the extent necessary to offset the unfavorable claims experience, our financial results will be adversely affected. We review the adequacy of our premium rates regularly and file proposed rate increases on our health insurance products when we believe existing premium rates are too low. It is possible that we will not be able to obtain approval for premium rate increases from currently pending requests or from future requests. If we are unable to raise our premium rates because we fail to obtain approval in one or more states, our financial results will be adversely affected. Moreover, in some instances, our ability to exit unprofitable lines of business is limited by the guaranteed renewal feature of the policy. Due to this feature, we cannot exit such business without regulatory approval, and accordingly, we may be required to continue to service those products at a loss for an extended period of time. Most of our long-term care business is guaranteed renewable, 27 and, if necessary rate increases are not approved, we would be required to recognize a loss and establish a premium deficiency reserve. During 2008, the financial statements of three of our subsidiaries prepared in accordance with statutory accounting practices prescribed or permitted by regulatory authorities reflected the establishment of asset adequacy or premium deficiency reserves primarily related to long-term care and annuity policies. Total asset adequacy or premium deficiency reserves for Washington National, Conseco Insurance Company and Bankers Conseco Life were $53.3 million, $20.0 million and $19.5 million, respectively, at December 31, 2008. Due to differences between statutory and GAAP insurance liabilities, we were not required to recognize a similar premium deficiency reserve in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. The determination of the need for and amount of asset adequacy reserves is subject to numerous actuarial assumptions, including the Company's ability to change nonguaranteed elements related to certain products consistent with contract provisions. If, however, we are successful in obtaining regulatory approval to raise premium rates, the increased premium rates may reduce the volume of our new sales and cause existing policyholders to allow their policies to lapse. This could result in a significantly higher ratio of claim costs to premiums if healthier policyholders who get coverage elsewhere allow their policies to lapse, while policies of less healthy policyholders continue inforce. This would reduce our premium income and profitability in future periods. Most of our supplemental health policies allow us to increase premium rates when warranted by our actual claims experience. These rate increases must be approved by the applicable state insurance departments, and we are required to submit actuarial claims data to support the need for such rate increases. The re-rate application and approval process on supplemental health products is a normal recurring part of our business operations and reasonable rate increases are typically approved by the state departments as long as they are supported by actual claims experience and are not unusually large in either dollar amount or percentage increase. For policy types on which rate increases are a normal recurring event, our estimates of insurance liabilities assume we will be able to raise rates if experience on the blocks warrants such increases in the future. The benefit ratio for our long-term care products included in the Conseco Insurance Group segment has increased in recent periods and was 169.6 percent during 2008. We will have to continue to raise rates or take other actions with respect to some of these policies or our financial results will be adversely affected. As a result of higher persistency and resultant higher claims in our long-term care block in the Bankers Life segment than assumed in the original pricing, our premium rates were too low. Accordingly, we have been seeking approval from regulatory authorities for rate increases on portions of this business. Many of the rate increases have been approved by regulators and implemented. However, it is possible that we will not be able to obtain approval for all or a portion of the premium rate increases from currently pending requests or future requests. If we are unable to obtain these rate increases, the profitability of these policies and the performance of this block of business will be adversely affected. In addition, such rate increases may reduce the volume of our new sales and cause existing policyholders to allow their policies to lapse, resulting in reduced profitability. We have implemented and will continue to implement from time to time and when actuarially justified, premium rate increases in our long-term care business. In some cases, we offer policyholders the opportunity to reduce their coverage amounts or accept non-forfeiture benefits as alternatives to increasing their premium rates. The financial impact of our rate increase actions could be adversely affected by policyholder anti-selection, meaning that policyholders who are less likely to incur claims may lapse their policies or reduce their benefits, while policyholders who are more likely to incur claims may maintain full coverage and accept their rate increase. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, and our business and stock price may be adversely affected if we have not adequately addressed the weakness or if we have other material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting. We did not maintain effective controls over the accounting and disclosure of insurance policy benefits and the liabilities for some of our insurance products. We previously identified a material weakness in internal controls over the actuarial reporting processes related to the design of controls to ensure the completeness and accuracy of certain inforce policies in our Bankers Life segment, Conseco Insurance Group segment, and the long-term care business reflected in discontinued operations. Remediation efforts to enhance controls over the actuarial reporting process continued in 2008 and the control deficiencies in the actuarial reporting process related to the design of controls over the completeness and accuracy of certain inforce policies in our Bankers Life and long-term care business reflected in discontinued operations were remediated, and the new controls were determined to be effective. However, a material weakness relating to the actuarial 28 reporting process in our Conseco Insurance Group segment continued to exist as of December 31, 2008. These control deficiencies resulted in adjustments to insurance policy benefits and the liabilities for insurance products in the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2006, December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2008. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price of our stock could decline significantly, we may be unable to obtain additional financing to operate and expand our business, and our business and financial condition could be harmed. In addition, we face the risk that, notwithstanding our efforts to date to identify and remedy all material errors in those financial statements, we may discover other errors in the future and that the cost of identifying and remedying the errors and remediating our material weakness in internal controls will be high and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. See Item 9A of this annual report for additional information. Future issuances or repurchases of our equity, or transfers of our equity by third parties, may impair our future ability to use a substantial amount of our existing NOLs. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $4.8 billion of federal tax NOLs and $1.2 billion of capital loss carryforwards, resulting in a gross deferred tax asset of approximately $2.1 billion, expiring in years 2009 through 2028. The timing and manner in which Conseco will be able to utilize some of its NOLs is limited by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Section 382 imposes limitations on a corporation's ability to use its NOLs when it undergoes an "ownership change." Because Conseco underwent an ownership change as the result of its reorganization, the Section 382 limitation applies to the Company. Losses that are subject to the current Section 382 limitation may only be utilized by the Company up to approximately $142 million per year, with any unused amounts carried forward to the following year. Absent an additional ownership change, our Section 382 limitation for 2009 will be approximately $662 million (including $520 million of unused amounts carried forward from prior years). Future transactions and the timing of such transactions could cause an additional ownership change for Section 382 income tax purposes. Such transactions may include, but are not limited to, additional repurchases or issuances of common stock (including upon conversion of our outstanding Debentures), or acquisitions or sales of shares of Conseco stock by certain holders of our shares, including persons who have held, currently hold or may accumulate in the future five percent or more of our outstanding common stock for their own account. Many of these transactions are beyond our control. If an additional ownership change were to occur for purposes of Section 382, we would be required to calculate a new annual restriction (which would supersede the current $142 million annual limit) on the use of our NOLs to offset future taxable income and that new limitation would apply to all of our NOLs (as compared to our current limitation which only applies to a portion of our carryforwards). The new annual restriction would be calculated based upon the value of Conseco's equity at the time of such ownership change, multiplied by a federal long-term tax exempt rate (currently approximately 5.4 percent), and the new annual restriction could effectively eliminate our ability to use a substantial portion of our NOLs to offset future taxable income. The writedown of our deferred tax assets that would occur in the event of an ownership change for purposes of Section 382 would likely cause us to breach the debt to equity covenant of our Second Amended Credit Facility. We regularly monitor ownership change (as calculated for purposes of Section 382) and, as of December 31, 2008, we were below the 50 percent ownership change level that would trigger further impairment of our ability to utilize our NOLs. In January 2009, the Company's Board of Directors adopted a Section 382 Rights Plan (the "Rights Plan") which is designed to protect shareholder value by preserving the value of our NOLs. See the "Income Taxes" footnote to our financial statements contained herein for additional information regarding the Rights Plan, our tax loss carryforwards and other tax matters. The value of our deferred tax asset may be impaired to the extent our future profits are less than we have projected; and such impairment may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition. As of December 31, 2008, we had deferred tax assets of $2.1 billion. During 2008, we increased the deferred tax valuation allowance by $856.2 million. The $856.2 million increase to our valuation allowance during 2008 included increases of: (i) $452 million of deferred tax assets related to Senior Health, which was transferred to an independent trust during 2008; (ii) $298 million related to our reassessment of the recovery of our deferred tax assets in accordance with GAAP, following the additional losses incurred as a result of the transaction to transfer Senior Health to an independent trust; (iii) $60 million related to the recognition of additional realized investment losses for which we are unlikely to receive any tax benefit; and (iv) $45 million related to the projected additional future expense following the modifications to our Second Amended Credit Facility as described in the note to these consolidated financial statements entitled "Subsequent Events." Our income tax expense includes deferred income taxes arising from temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, capital loss carryforwards and NOLs. We evaluate the realizability of our deferred income tax assets and assess the need for a valuation allowance on an ongoing basis. In evaluating our deferred income tax 29 assets, we consider whether it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax assets will be realized. The ultimate realization of our deferred income tax assets depends upon generating sufficient future taxable income during the periods in which our temporary differences become deductible and before our capital loss carryforwards and NOLs expire. This assessment requires significant judgment. However, recovery is dependent on achieving such projections and failure to do so would result in an increase in the valuation allowance in a future period. Any future increase in the valuation allowance would result in additional income tax expense and reduce shareholders' equity, and such an increase could have a material adverse effect upon our earnings in the future. Concentration of our investment portfolios in any particular sector of the economy or type of asset may have an adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. The concentration of our investment portfolios in any particular industry, group of related industries, asset classes (such as residential mortgage-backed securities and other asset-backed securities), or geographic area could have an adverse effect on its value and performance and, consequently, on our results of operations and financial position. While Conseco seeks to mitigate this risk by having a broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that have a negative impact on any particular industry, group of related industries or geographic area may have an adverse effect on the investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated. Our business is subject to extensive regulation, which limits our operating flexibility and could result in our insurance subsidiaries being placed under regulatory control or otherwise negatively impact our financial results. Our insurance business is subject to extensive regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to state insurance laws that establish supervisory agencies. Such agencies have broad administrative powers including the power to: o grant and revoke business licenses; o regulate and supervise sales practices and market conduct; o establish guaranty associations; o license agents; o approve policy forms; o approve premium rates for some lines of business such as long-term care and Medicare supplement; o establish reserve requirements; o prescribe the form and content of required financial statements and reports; o determine the reasonableness and adequacy of statutory capital and surplus; o perform financial, market conduct and other examinations; o define acceptable accounting principles; and o regulate the types and amounts of permitted investments. The regulations issued by state insurance agencies can be complex and subject to differing interpretations. If a state insurance regulatory agency determines that one of our insurance company subsidiaries is not in compliance with applicable regulations, the subsidiary is subject to various potential administrative remedies including, without limitation, monetary penalties, restrictions on the subsidiary's ability to do business in that state and a return of a portion of policyholder premiums. In addition, regulatory action or investigations could cause us to suffer significant reputational harm, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our insurance subsidiaries are also subject to RBC requirements. These requirements were designed to evaluate the adequacy of statutory capital and surplus in relation to investment and insurance risks associated with asset quality, mortality and morbidity, asset and liability matching and other business factors. The requirements are used by states as an early warning tool to discover companies that may be weakly-capitalized for the purpose of initiating regulatory action. Generally, if an insurer's RBC falls below specified levels, the insurer is subject to different degrees of regulatory action depending upon the magnitude of the deficiency. The 2008 statutory annual statements filed with the state insurance regulators of each of our insurance subsidiaries reflected total adjusted capital in excess of the levels subjecting the subsidiaries to any regulatory action. 30 Our reserves for future insurance policy benefits and claims may prove to be inadequate, requiring us to increase liabilities which results in reduced net income and shareholders' equity. Liabilities for insurance products are calculated using management's best judgments, based on our past experience and standard actuarial tables of mortality, morbidity, lapse rates, investment experience and expense levels. For our health insurance business, we establish an active life reserve, a liability for due and unpaid claims, claims in the course of settlement, incurred but not reported claims, and a reserve for the present value of amounts on incurred claims not yet due. We establish reserves based on assumptions and estimates of factors either established at the fresh-start date for business inforce then or considered when we set premium rates for business written after that date. Many factors can affect these reserves and liabilities, such as economic and social conditions, inflation, hospital and pharmaceutical costs, changes in life expectancy, regulatory actions, changes in doctrines of legal liability and extra-contractual damage awards. Therefore, the reserves and liabilities we establish are necessarily based on estimates, assumptions, industry data and prior years' statistics. It is possible that actual claims will materially exceed our reserves and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have incurred significant losses beyond our estimates as a result of actual claim costs and persistency of our long-term care business included in our Bankers Life and Conseco Insurance Group segments. The benefit ratios for our long-term care products in our Bankers Life segment were 107.6 percent, 102.0 percent and 94.5 percent in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The benefit ratios for our long-term care products in our Conseco Insurance Group segment were 169.6 percent, 192.4 percent and 224.4 percent in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our financial performance depends significantly upon the extent to which our actual claims experience and future expenses are consistent with the assumptions we used in setting our reserves. If our assumptions with respect to future claims are incorrect, and our reserves prove to be insufficient to cover our actual losses and expenses, we would be required to increase our liabilities, and our financial results could be adversely affected. We may be required to accelerate the amortization of the cost of policies produced or the value of policies inforce at the Effective Date. Cost of policies produced represent the costs that vary with, and are primarily related to, producing new insurance business. The value of policies inforce at the Effective Date represents the value assigned to the right to receive future cash flows from contracts existing at September 10, 2003. The balances of these accounts are amortized over the expected lives of the underlying insurance contracts. Management, on an ongoing basis, tests these accounts recorded on our balance sheet to determine if these amounts are recoverable under current assumptions. In addition, we regularly review the estimates and assumptions underlying these accounts for those products for which we amortize the cost of policies produced or the value of insurance inforce at the Effective Date in proportion to gross profits or gross margins. If facts and circumstances change, these tests and reviews could lead to reduction in the balance of those accounts that could have an adverse effect on the results of our operations and our financial condition. Our operating results will suffer if policyholder surrender levels differ significantly from our assumptions. Surrenders of our annuities and life insurance products can result in losses and decreased revenues if surrender levels differ significantly from assumed levels. At December 31, 2008, approximately 20 percent of our total insurance liabilities, or approximately $4.8 billion, could be surrendered by the policyholder without penalty. The surrender charges that are imposed on our fixed rate annuities typically decline during a penalty period, which ranges from five to twelve years after the date the policy is issued. Surrenders and redemptions could require us to dispose of assets earlier than we had planned, possibly at a loss. Moreover, surrenders and redemptions require faster amortization of either the acquisition costs or the commissions associated with the original sale of a product, thus reducing our net income. We believe policyholders are generally more likely to surrender their policies if they believe the issuer is having financial difficulties, or if they are able to reinvest the policy's value at a higher rate of return in an alternative insurance or investment product. Changing interest rates may adversely affect our results of operations. Our profitability is affected by fluctuating interest rates. While we monitor the interest rate environment and, in some cases, employ hedging strategies to mitigate such impact, our financial results could be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. Our spread-based insurance and annuity business is subject to several inherent risks arising from movements in interest rates, especially if we fail to anticipate or respond to such movements. First, interest rate changes can cause compression of our net spread between interest earned on investments and interest credited to customer deposits. Our ability to adjust for such a compression is limited by the guaranteed minimum rates that we must credit to policyholders on certain products, as well as the terms on most of our other products that limit reductions in the crediting rates to pre-established 31 intervals. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 41 percent of our insurance liabilities were subject to interest rates that may be reset annually; 40 percent had a fixed explicit interest rate for the duration of the contract; 14 percent had credited rates that approximate the income we earn; and the remainder had no explicit interest rates. Second, if interest rate changes produce an unanticipated increase in surrenders of our spread-based products, we may be forced to sell invested assets at a loss in order to fund such surrenders. Third, the profits from many non-spread-based insurance products, such as long-term care policies, can be adversely affected when interest rates decline because we may be unable to reinvest the cash from premiums received at the interest rates anticipated when we sold the policies. Finally, changes in interest rates can have significant effects on the market value and performance of our investments in general and specifically on the performance of our structured securities portfolio, including collateralized mortgage obligations, as a result of changes in the prepayment rate of the loans underlying such securities. We employ asset/liability strategies that are designed to mitigate the effects of interest rate changes on our profitability but do not currently extensively employ derivative instruments for this purpose. We may not be successful in implementing these strategies and achieving adequate investment spreads. We use computer models to simulate our cash flows expected from existing business under various interest rate scenarios. These simulations help us measure the potential gain or loss in fair value of our interest-sensitive financial instruments. With such estimates, we seek to manage the relationship between the duration of our assets and the expected duration of our liabilities. When the estimated durations of assets and liabilities are similar, exposure to interest rate risk is minimized because a change in the value of assets should be largely offset by a change in the value of liabilities. At December 31, 2008, the duration of our fixed maturity investments (as modified to reflect prepayments and potential calls) was approximately 7.6 years, and the duration of our insurance liabilities was approximately 7.8 years. We estimate that our fixed maturity securities and short-term investments, net of corresponding changes in insurance acquisition costs, would decline in fair value by approximately $185 million if interest rates were to increase by 10 percent from rates as of December 31, 2008. This compares to a decline in fair value of $490 million based on amounts and rates at December 31, 2007. The calculations involved in our computer simulations incorporate numerous assumptions, require significant estimates and assume an immediate change in interest rates without any management reaction to such change. Consequently, potential changes in the values of our financial instruments indicated by the simulations will likely be different from the actual changes experienced under given interest rate scenarios, and the differences may be material. Because we actively manage our investments and liabilities, our net exposure to interest rates can vary over time. General market conditions affect investments and investment income. The performance of our investment portfolio depends in part upon the level of and changes in interest rates, risk spreads, real estate values, market volatility, the performance of the economy in general, the performance of the specific obligors included in our portfolio and other factors that are beyond our control. Changes in these factors can affect our net investment income in any period, and such changes can be substantial. Financial market conditions can also affect our realized and unrealized investment gains (losses). During periods of rising interest rates, the fair values of our investments will typically decline. Conversely, during periods of falling interest rates, the fair values of our investments will typically rise. Our results of operations may be negatively impacted if our initiatives to restructure our insurance operations are unsuccessful or if our planned conversions result in valuation differences. Our Conseco Insurance Group segment has experienced decreases in premium revenues and new annualized premiums in recent years as well as expense levels that exceed product pricing expense assumptions. We have implemented several initiatives to improve operating results, including: (i) focusing sales efforts on higher margin products; (ii) reducing operating expenses by eliminating or reducing marketing costs of certain products; (iii) streamlining administrative procedures and reducing personnel; and (iv) increasing retention rates on our more profitable blocks of inforce business. Many of our initiatives address issues resulting from the substantial number of acquisitions of our Predecessor. Between 1982 and 1997, our Predecessor completed 19 transactions involving the acquisitions of 44 separate insurance companies. Our efforts involve improvements to our policy administration procedures and significant systems conversions, such as the elimination of duplicate processing systems for similar business. These initiatives may result in unforeseen expenses, complications or delays, and may be inadequate to address all issues. Some of these initiatives have only recently begun to be executed, and may not ultimately be successfully completed. While our future operating performance depends greatly on the success of these efforts, even if we successfully implement these measures, they alone may not sufficiently improve our results of operations. 32 Conversions to new systems can result in valuation differences between the prior system and the new system. We have recognized such differences in the past. Our planned conversions could result in future valuation adjustments, and there can be no assurance that these adjustments will not have a material adverse effect on future earnings. Our financial position may be negatively impacted if we are unable to achieve our goals for 2009. We have identified a number of goals for 2009, including maintaining strong growth at Bankers Life, improving earnings stability and reducing volatility and reducing our enterprise exposure to long-term care business. The most consistent components of our operations in recent years have been Bankers Life and Colonial Penn, and the continued growth and profitability of those businesses is critical to our overall results. The failure to achieve these and our other goals for 2009 could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and the price of our common stock. A failure to improve the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries or a decline from the current ratings could cause us to experience decreased sales, increased agent attrition and increased policyholder lapses and redemptions. An important competitive factor for our insurance subsidiaries is the ratings they receive from nationally recognized rating organizations. Agents, insurance brokers and marketing companies who market our products, and prospective policyholders view ratings as an important factor in evaluating an insurer's products. This is especially true for annuity, interest-sensitive life insurance and long-term care products. The current financial strength ratings of our primary insurance subsidiaries from A.M. Best, S&P and Moody's are "B (Fair)," "BB-" and "Ba2," respectively. A.M. Best has sixteen possible ratings. There are six ratings above our "B" rating and nine ratings that are below our rating. S&P has twenty-one possible ratings. There are twelve ratings above our "BB-" rating and eight ratings that are below our rating. Moody's has twenty-one possible ratings. There are eleven ratings above our "Ba2" rating and nine ratings that are below our rating. Most of our competitors have higher financial strength ratings and, to be competitive over the long term, we believe it is critical to achieve improved ratings. If we fail to achieve ratings upgrades from A.M. Best or if our ratings are further downgraded, we may experience declining sales of certain of our insurance products, defections of our independent and career sales force, and increased policies being redeemed or allowed to lapse. These events would adversely affect our financial results, which could then lead to ratings downgrades. Competition from companies that have greater market share, higher ratings, greater financial resources and stronger brand recognition, may impair our ability to retain existing customers and sales representatives, attract new customers and sales representatives and maintain or improve our financial results. The supplemental health insurance, annuity and individual life insurance markets are highly competitive. Competitors include other life and accident and health insurers, commercial banks, thrifts, mutual funds and broker-dealers. Our principal competitors vary by product line. Our main competitors for agent sold long-term care insurance products include Genworth Financial, John Hancock Financial Services and MetLife. Our main competitors for agent sold Medicare supplement insurance products include United HealthCare, Blue Cross and Blue Shield Plans, Mutual of Omaha and United American. In some of our product lines, such as life insurance and fixed annuities, we have a relatively small market share. Even in some of the lines in which we are one of the top five writers, our market share is relatively small. For example, while our Bankers Life segment ranked fourth in annualized premiums of individual long-term care insurance in 2007 with a market share of approximately 5.4 percent, the top three writers of individual long-term care insurance had annualized premiums with a combined market share of approximately 57 percent during the period. In addition, while our Bankers Life segment was ranked fourth in direct premiums earned for individual Medicare supplement insurance in 2007 with a market share of 3.8 percent, the top writer of individual Medicare supplement insurance had direct premiums with a market share of 15.5 percent during the period. Virtually all of our major competitors have higher financial strength ratings than we do. Many of our competitors are larger companies that have greater capital, technological and marketing resources and have access to capital at a lower cost. Recent industry consolidation, including business combinations among insurance and other financial services companies, has resulted in larger competitors with even greater financial resources. Furthermore, changes in federal law have narrowed the historical separation between banks and insurance companies, enabling traditional banking institutions to enter the insurance 33 and annuity markets and further increase competition. This increased competition may harm our ability to maintain or improve our profitability. In addition, because the actual cost of products is unknown when they are sold, we are subject to competitors who may sell a product at a price that does not cover its actual cost. Accordingly, if we do not also lower our prices for similar products, we may lose market share to these competitors. If we lower our prices to maintain market share, our profitability will decline. We must attract and retain sales representatives to sell our insurance and annuity products. Strong competition exists among insurance and financial services companies for sales representatives. We compete for sales representatives primarily on the basis of our financial position, financial strength ratings, support services, compensation, products and product features. Our competitiveness for such agents also depends upon the relationships we develop with these agents. Our Predecessor's bankruptcy continues to be an adverse factor in developing relationships with certain agents. If we are unable to attract and retain sufficient numbers of sales representatives to sell our products, our ability to compete and our revenues and profitability would suffer. Volatility in the securities markets, and other economic factors, may adversely affect our business, particularly our sales of certain life insurance products and annuities. Fluctuations in the securities markets and other economic factors may adversely affect sales and/or policy surrenders of our annuities and life insurance policies. For example, volatility in the equity markets may deter potential purchasers from investing in equity-indexed annuities and may cause current policyholders to surrender their policies for the cash value or to reduce their investments. In addition, significant or unusual volatility in the general level of interest rates could negatively impact sales and/or lapse rates on certain types of insurance products. Federal and state legislation could adversely affect the financial performance of our insurance operations. During recent years, the health insurance industry has experienced substantial changes, including those caused by healthcare legislation. Recent federal and state legislation and pending legislative proposals concerning healthcare reform contain features that could severely limit, or eliminate, our ability to vary pricing terms or apply medical underwriting standards to individuals, thereby potentially increasing our benefit ratios and adversely impacting our financial results. In particular, Medicare reform could affect our ability to price or sell our products or profitably maintain our blocks in force. For example, the Medicare Advantage program provides incentives for health plans to offer managed care plans to seniors. The growth of managed care plans under this program could decrease sales of the traditional Medicare supplement products we sell. Proposals currently pending in Congress and some state legislatures may also affect our financial results. These proposals include the implementation of minimum consumer protection standards in all long-term care policies, including: guaranteed premium rates; protection against inflation; limitations on waiting periods for pre-existing conditions; setting standards for sales practices for long-term care insurance; and guaranteed consumer access to information about insurers, including information regarding lapse and replacement rates for policies and the percentage of claims denied. Enactment of any proposal that would limit the amount we can charge for our products, such as guaranteed premium rates, or that would increase the benefits we must pay, such as limitations on waiting periods, or that would otherwise increase the costs of our business, could adversely affect our financial results. Tax law changes could adversely affect our insurance product sales and profitability. We sell deferred annuities and some forms of life insurance that are attractive, in part, because policyholders generally are not subject to United States Federal income tax on increases in policy values until some form of distribution is made. Congress has enacted legislation to lower marginal tax rates, to reduce the federal estate tax gradually over a ten-year period (with total elimination of the federal estate tax in 2010) and to increase contributions that may be made to individual retirement accounts and 401(k) accounts. While these tax law changes are scheduled to expire at the beginning of 2011 absent future congressional action, they could in the interim diminish the appeal of our annuity and life insurance products because the benefit of tax deferral is lessened when tax rates are lower and because fewer people may purchase these products when they can contribute more to individual retirement accounts and 401(k) accounts. Additionally, Congress has considered, from time to time, other possible changes to U.S. tax laws, including elimination of the tax deferral on the accretion of value within certain annuities and life insurance products. Such a change would make these products less attractive to prospective purchasers and therefore would likely cause our sales of these products to decline. 34 We face risk with respect to our reinsurance agreements. We transfer exposure to certain risks to others through reinsurance arrangements. Under these arrangements, other insurers assume a portion of our losses and expenses associated with reported and unreported claims in exchange for a portion of policy premiums. The availability, amount and cost of reinsurance depend on general market conditions and may vary significantly. As of December 31, 2008, our reinsurance receivables totaled $3.3 billion. Our ceded life insurance inforce totaled $13.8 billion. Our nine largest reinsurers accounted for 88 percent of our ceded life insurance inforce. We face credit risk with respect to reinsurance. When we obtain reinsurance, we are still liable for those transferred risks if the reinsurer cannot meet its obligations. Therefore, the inability of our reinsurers to meet their financial obligations may require us to increase liabilities, thereby reducing our net income and shareholders' equity. Our insurance subsidiaries may be required to pay assessments to fund other companies' policyholder losses or liabilities and this may negatively impact our financial results. The solvency or guaranty laws of most states in which an insurance company does business may require that company to pay assessments up to certain prescribed limits to fund policyholder losses or liabilities of other insurance companies that become insolvent. Insolvencies of insurance companies increase the possibility that these assessments may be required. These assessments may be deferred or forgiven under most guaranty laws if they would threaten an insurer's financial strength and, in certain instances, may be offset against future premium taxes. We cannot estimate the likelihood and amount of future assessments. Although past assessments have not been material, if there were a number of large insolvencies, future assessments could be material and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 